            Document of
          The World Bank




                                     Report No: 36515

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
         (SCL-42810 TF-27062)

                ON A

               LOAN

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 18 MILLION

               TO THE

       ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

               FOR A

 POLLUTION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
           (Credit 4281-AR)




            June 19, 2006

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 19)

                            Currency Unit = AR$
                                    AR$ 1 = US$ 0.3248
                                    US$ 1 = AR$ 3.0788

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1   December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DNGA    National Direction of Environmental Management
        Dirección Nacional de Gestión Ambiental
EMS     Environmental Management System
GOA     Government of Argentina
        Gobierno de Argentina
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GEF     Global Environment Fund
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IUSWMS  Integrated Urban Solid Waste Management Strategy
MECL    Motor Emissions Control Laboratory
        Laboratorio de Control de Emisiones de Gases Vehiculares
PEU     Project Execution Unit
PSR     Project Supervision Report
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SAyDS   Environmental and Sustainable Development Secretariat
        Secretaría de Ambiente y Desarrollo Sustentable
SME     Small and Medium Enterprises
USWM    Urban Solid Waste Management

                           Vice President:   Pamela Cox
                         Country Director    Axel van Trotsenburg
                          Sector Manager     Abel Mejia
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Horacio Terraza

                                        ARGENTINA
                         POLLUTION MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Summary Report                                    25

Project ID: P006050                                                  Project Name: Pollution Management Project
Team Leader: Horacio Terraza                                         TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Pollution Management Project                             L/C/TF Number: SCL-42810; TF-27062
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (42%); Sub-national government administration (36%);
                            Central government administration (22%)
                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Environmental policies and institutions
                            (P); Municipal governance and institution building (P); Small and medium enterprise support
                            (P); Other financial and private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/25/1997                                     Effective: 04/27/1999                04/27/1999
     Appraisal: 10/27/1997                                         MTR:                             06/24/2002
      Approval: 02/10/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA/ENVIRONMENTAL AND SUSTAINABLE
                                           DEVELOPMENT SECRETARIAT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Manager:                 Abel Mejia                                     Maritta R. V. B. Koch-Weser
Team Leader at ICR:             Horacio Terraza                                Fernando Manibog
ICR Primary Author:             Helvecio Guimaraes


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project were (i) to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Environmental
and Sustainable Development Secretariat (SAyDS) of the Government of Argentina (GOA) to
pilot, demonstrate, and coordinate the mainstreaming of innovative pollution management
instruments through technical assistance and selected investment activities to address priority
pollution problems and (ii) for the SAyDS to internalize the lessons learned from the pilots and
strengthen its capability to replicate the positive results.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the project was restructured and some project components were cancelled for the
equivalent of US$12 million, there were no revisions of the project development objectives. The
restructuring aimed at focusing the project's funds on key outcome activities to achieve the
original objectives.

It is important to mention that at the time of project startup in the late 1990s, Argentina faced one
of its worst financial and economic crises. From 1990 to 1994 per capita gross domestic product
(GDP), measured in US dollars, grew by 72.8 percent, and the country implemented a
convertibility system. This impressive growth was then suddenly affected by the Mexican crisis
(the "Tequila effect") in December 1994. Argentina overcame the resulting crisis in investor
confidence by enacting policies that included a reaffirmation of commitment to a parity exchange
rate of one peso per dollar.

In September 1998, in the aftermath of the Asian and Russian currency crises, Argentina's
economy again went into a recession, generating strong reductions in external investment flows to
an emerging market economy. The Brazilian currency crisis in 1999 also seriously affected
Argentina's economy. Another shock was initiated by the De la Rúa government's enactment of
large tax increases that took effect at the beginning of 2000.

These continual negative external shocks resulted in one of the worst economic crises in the
history of Argentina. In 2001 the county's banks lost over US$19 billion in deposits, mainly
because of decreasing confidence on the part of depositors and foreign investors and the inability
of the GOA to service its internal and external debt. To avoid a run of deposit withdrawals, in
December 2001 the government decreed a freeze on deposits, known as the corralito, setting an
initial weekly limit of US$250 equivalent as the amount depositors could withdraw in local
currency (pesos) from their bank accounts. In the midst of growing popular turmoil, former
President Rodriguez Saa declared the largest default in history. In the same year, macroeconomic
indicators reflected a fall in GDP of 4.4 percentage points. In 2002 the GDP showed a negative
growth of 10.9 percent. In these circumstances, the GOA requested significant cancellations of all
its loans, including a loan for the Pollution Management Project.

Thus after 3 years of project implementation, US$12 million, or 66 percent of the loan amount,
was cancelled. At the same time, a 3:1 devaluation of the peso against the dollar resulted in a
large increase in available local currency, offsetting the impact of the partial cancellation. Still, the
external socioeconomic factors beyond the control of the Borrower seriously affected project



                                                  - 2 -

management and the level of disbursements at an early stage of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the objectives described above, the Argentina Pollution Management Project included
the following components:
Component A. Public-Private Partnerships for Pollution Management (US$10 million). This
component aimed to strengthen the capacity of the SAyDS to promote and coordinate the
development, testing, and demonstration of innovative pollution management instruments with
private stakeholders. The component consisted of three main subcomponents: (a.1) strengthening
the SAyDS's role in pollution management, (a.2) technical capacity development to promote
Environmental Management Systems (EMS), eco-efficient practices, and certification programs
for industry, and (a.3) development of a cost-sharing grant program targeted at small and medium
enterprises (SME). This last sub-component consisted mainly of supporting SME on a 50 percent
cost-sharing basis to introduce and promote pilot activities related to, inter alia, environmental
diagnosis, emissions inventories and information disclosure, plant-level environmental audits, the
implementation of EMS and cleaner production practices, eco-efficiency programs, and total cost
accounting.

Component B. Municipal Integrated Management of Environmental Quality (US$1.6
million). This component was designed to demonstrate models of cooperation between public
and private stakeholders to address urban and industrial pollution at the municipal level, as well as
to strengthen municipal environmental management, demonstrate participatory processes to
address pollution in a local river basin, and support industry-led initiatives to promote
environmental improvements in SME linked through a supplier chain with larger, export-oriented
industry leaders.

Component C. Greater Buenos Aires Air Quality Management (US$5.3 million). This
component aimed to establish a technical base and institutional framework for urban air quality
management in Greater Buenos Aires and lay a foundation for the technical infrastructure needed
for effective regulation of sources of air emissions in the region. The four sub-components
included (c.1) implementation of an air quality and noise monitoring network, (c. 2) development
of a motor vehicle emission laboratory and certification center, (c. 3) preparation of an integrated
air quality management plan for Greater Buenos Aires, and (c. 4) strengthening of vehicle
inspection and maintenance.

Component D. Municipal and Regional Pollution Management (US$1.1 million). This
component, associated with a proposed Global Environment Fund (GEF) Coastal Contamination
Prevention and Sustainable Fisheries Management Project, aimed to test and demonstrate
innovative pollution management instruments at the municipal level. The pilot municipality was
Puerto Madryn in Chubut Province. After testing, the instruments were then to be replicated in
Patagonia, where cross-media pollution threatens tourism, natural resources, and marine
biodiversity.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were revised during implementation. Although the loan agreement was
declared effective in April 1999, the project had disbursed only US$0.9 million by June 2002. This
slow disbursement was attributed to the economic and political environment created by


                                                - 3 -

Argentina's crisis, together with the following factors: (i) use of Japanese Grant Funds in the
project's first year of implementation to initiate activities that were programmed within the loan,
(ii) insufficient preparation of bidding documents and other inputs that would have supported
prompt implementation, and (iii) excessive turnover of the Project Execution Unit's staff. In June
2002 the Borrower recommended canceling the cost-sharing grant program, equivalent to US$6
million of the loan, and the corresponding local contribution equivalent to US$6 million. This
recommendation was justified by the lack of real private sector partnerships for pollution activities
because of the economic recession.

By the time of the project's mid-term review in June 2003, and in the aftermath of Argentina's
crisis, the project was restructured and revised to adapt it to the country's socioeconomic and
political situation. This reorganization responded to the devaluation of the peso and uncertainty
over the GOA's timely availability of budgetary quotas. As a consequence, the loan amount was
further reduced from US$12 million to US$6 million, and components C: Greater Buenos Aires
Air Quality Management (with the exception of the development of the emission vehicle
laboratory) and D: Municipal and Regional Pollution Management were cancelled.

In summary, in June 2003 the project outcomes and outputs were redefined for a loan size of
US$6 million plus local counterpart resources. In terms of the devaluated peso, this amount
represented approximately AR$18 million--a purchasing power parity similar to the original loan
amount. The new project structure consisted of the following three components:

Component A. Strengthening of the SAyDS's Role in Pollution Management (US$1.7
million), with two sub-components: (a.1) Strengthening of SAyDS's Role in Pollution
Management and (a.2) Environmental Management Systems, Eco-efficient Practices, and
Environmental Certification Programs for Industry.

Component B. Integrated Management of Environmental Quality at Provincial and
Municipal Levels (US$ 1.05 million). After the project was restructured, activities under this
component involved: (i) preparation of SWM management related studies (municipal SWM plans,
dump closure, cost recovery studies, etc) in 19 municipalities in 6 different provinces; (ii)
preparation of 3 Provincial SWM in the provinces of Tucuman, Mendoza and Chubut.

Component C: Air Quality Management (US$ 3.25 million). The central investment for this
component was for establishing and operating a motor vehicle emissions certification laboratory,
i.e., the third component only of the original component C.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Because the project predated the introduction of the Quality Assurance Group process at the
Bank, no official quality at entry data are available. Nonetheless, evidence suggests that the
quality at entry can be rated satisfactory.

The project objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and
with the main issues and problems identified in the October 1995 Bank sector study Managing
Environmental Pollution: Issues and Options. The key sector issues identified in the study
included groundwater pollution, air and noise pollution, uncontrolled solid waste dumps, surface


                                                 - 4 -

water pollution, weak institutions, and the virtual absence of environmental monitoring
information and analysis. The study also noted that environmental institutions were weak,
regulatory compliance was non-existent, and government response was driven by urgencies.

The Argentina Pollution Management Project was designed based on the sector study and lessons
learned from the World Bank's young environmental project portfolio. As a result, the project
was a pioneering endeavor to promote environmental management systems in industry. Moreover,
the strategic choice of a "bottom-up" instead of "top-down" project design to establish
regulations and standards at provincial and municipal levels was a good approach to achieving
concrete results. Finally, the strategy of building on existing and emerging private initiatives to
improve industrial environmental behavior through matching grants was a good step toward
public-private partnerships at sub-national level.

The project design had some limitations. The design was optimistic and meant to cover most of
the issues and problems affecting the sector. The original logical framework included many
sub-components in the investment components and many outcomes and outputs to be achieved.
The original monitoring system was not comprehensive enough to reflect the complexity and
variety of the performance indicators.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project is considered overall marginally satisfactory despite the 3-year delay in start up and
the slow progress in implementation by the end of 2002, when less than US$1 million (5.5 percent
of the total original loan amount) had been disbursed.

Project ratings differ for two distinct phases. The first phase, from start up until mid-term review,
is rated unsatisfactory because of unforeseeable factors such as slow implementation, high staff
turnover, shortage of funds, and the economic crisis. The second phase, which started at mid-term
review in June 2002 and ended in December 2005, is rated satisfactory, mainly because of the
proactive roles of both the GOA and the Bank and the favorable environment for achieving
revised and expected outcomes (see Annex 1b: Overview of Project Performance). The overall
rating of marginally satisfactory derives from the weighted performance of these two phases.

The achievement of objectives is discussed below, as the objectives themselves were:

I. To strengthen the institutional capacity of the Environmental and Sustainable Development
Secretariat (SAyDS) of the Government of Argentina (GOA) to pilot, demonstrate and
coordinate the mainstreaming of innovative pollution management instruments, through technical
assistance and selected investment activities to address priority pollution problems.

The strengthening of the Secretariat happened throughout the project, as activities were being
developed and implemented. Activities that can be mentioned include:
(i)     improvement of environmental management at provincial and municipal levels, where the
Secretariat coordinated the adoption of a "bottom-up" project design that recognized
responsibility of provincial governments, authority vested in municipalities and opportunities to



                                                 - 5 -

collaborate with private initiatives, being the Provinces of Tucumán, Chubut and Mendoza the
sub-national governments that benefited most. In addition the SAyDS implemented a nation wide
integrated informational system for hazardous waste management;
(ii)    promote and develop innovative instruments for pollution management, where the
Secretariat implemented technical assistance strategies to encourage private firms to engage in
environmental management systems, eco-efficient practices, and clean production plans. Examples
include: (i) technical assistance to private firms in the city of Puerto Madryn, the rest of the
province of Chubut and in the province of Mendoza to qualify for ISO 14001:1996; (ii)
implementation of eco-efficient practices (waste reduction, energy and water savings) in 22 hotels
in tourist regions such as Puerto Madryn, San Martín de Los Andes and Termas de Río Hondo,
achieved through coordination and advice from the Secretariat; and (iii) developing a clean
production plan in Tucumán Province, aimed to reduce pollution in the Salí-Dulce river basin
through reducing waste quantity and toxicity while improving usage of water, energy, raw
materials, and inputs by Tucumán polluters.

II. SAyDS to internalize the lessons learned from the pilots and strengthen its capacity to replicate
the positive results.

The internalization of lessons learned is made clear if one looks at how the Secretariat staff is
handling environmental issues and similar projects. One example is the National Solid Waste
Management Project. Much of the development of this initiative was due to capacity built under
the Pollution Management project, where the Secretariat worked to gather the necessary
information and carry out the pertinent studies in conjunction with the Bank's staff. Efficient
coordination and knowledgeable professionals were key to waste project development and further
negotiations. Another example is the creation of the clean production center at the SAyDS as a
result of the successful implementation of the Salí-Dulce program.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The results achieved during the second phase under each component of the project are listed
below.

4.2.1. Component A. Strengthening of the SAyDS's Role in Pollution Management. The
implementation of this component is rated marginally satisfactory. As explained above, at the
Borrower's request this component was substantially reduced mainly because of the cancellation
of the cost-sharing grant program equivalent to US$6 million. The funds assigned for the
implementation of this component also were reduced from US$6 million to US$2.5 million
because the planned activities could be achieved at lower cost after the peso's devaluation (to a
low of AR$3.70 per US$1 in mid-2002). The SAyDS then focused mainly on strengthening its
role in pollution management and improving the strategic planning capacity of provincial and
municipal governments.

The expected outputs of this component included workshops to prepare a national strategy for
integrated urban solid waste management; introduction of new concepts and training programs for
developing and implementing an EMS, eco-efficient practices, and cleaner production plans; and
development of a management information system. The last output required the purchase of
software and 28 computers (1 per province), as well as the installation of a hazardous waste


                                                  - 6 -

registry system for in each of the 28 provinces. All these outputs were achieved satisfactorily.
Activities and outputs are shown in detail in Annex 1.a.

4.2.2. Component B. Integrated Management of Environmental Quality at Provincial and
Municipal Levels. Overall implementation of this component is rated satisfactory. At appraisal
the original budget for this component was the equivalent of US$1.6 million. At mid-term review,
the amount was reduced to US$1.05 million. The actual final disbursement was US$0.9 million
because of a reallocation of funds by the end of the project; this amount was sufficient to
complete project activities after the devaluation of the peso.

This component consisted of providing technical assistance to develop provincial and municipal
solid waste management plans. The plans assessed existing solid waste management in the
selected provinces and municipalities and provided alternative solutions. The project designed
Municipal USWM plans for the Centro-Sur-Oeste Microregion, Chascomús, Comodoro
Rivadavia, the Mendoza Metropolitan Area, Monteros, and Río Hondo, as well as provincial
USWM plans for Chubut and Tucumán. The provincial USWM plans proposed a regionalization
scheme, promoting landfills built and operated by multiple municipalities, to take advantage of
economies of scale. The activities and outputs of this component are presented in Annex 1.a.

4.2.3. Component C. Air Quality Management and Motor Emissions Control Laboratory.
This component is rated marginally satisfactory because two sub-components, an Air Quality and
Noise Monitoring Network and an Integrated Air Quality Management Plan for Greater Buenos
Aires, were cancelled at mid-term review as a result of institutional issues between different levels
of government in the region. The amount cancelled was the equivalent of US$2.05 million. The
performance rating for these sub-components is unsatisfactory.

After the loan cancellations, the SAyDS focused on the remaining sub-component, the creation
and operation of the Motor Emissions Control Laboratory (MECL) to certify and control vehicle
emissions. The final cost of the laboratory was the equivalent of US$4.48 million (US$3.15 of
which was financed by the Bank) and represented 52 percent of the final total cost of the project.
Although there were delays and difficulties in procurement of the required equipment during the
period before the mid-term review, the SAyDS was successful in implementing the Motor
Emissions Control Laboratory (MECL) and consolidating its capability to establish effective
emission control policies. The construction of this laboratory allowed the Secretariat to improve
its institutional image as an autonomous authority and ensure fulfillment of and compliance with
emission standards established in the 33rd article of Road Security and Transit Law N° 24.449.
This law requires vehicle certification that involves homologation and conformity in the
production of new vehicle models, both national and imported. The laboratory was calibrated to
obtain results similar to those of other laboratories in the region, and 190 tests have been
completed. The laboratory was to begin formal operation in the first quarter of 2006. This
sub-component is rated highly satisfactory.

The MECL is now able to check and certify new vehicles manufactured in Argentina for
compliance with emission standards, sample and measure emissions from vehicles in use to
improve emission factor estimates, and monitor the effectiveness of emission control programs.



                                                - 7 -

The operational cost of the laboratory will be financed through user charges from Argentina's
automobile industry. The MECL also will help promote research and development related to fuel
quality and cleaner technologies and systematize information on pollution gases generated by
vehicles.

4.2.4. Component D. Municipal and Regional Pollution Management. The US$1.1 million
investment budget estimated at appraisal for this component was cancelled at an early stage
because of the economic crisis and slow disbursement. The Puerto Madryn Municipal
Management and Patagonian Coastal Zone sub-components could not be executed. Most of the
Patagonia activities were later included in a GEF project financed by the Bank ( Coastal
Contamination Prevention and Marine Management Project P049012). Because of the
cancellation of the entire budget, no rating was assigned to this component.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The overall institutional development impact of the Argentina Pollution Management Project was
modest, although some components, particularly in waste management and vehicular testing, the
impact was substantial. The project contributed to the institutional development of the SAyDS,
provinces, and municipalities for pollution management. In particular, the project improved
hazardous waste management and monitoring through the development of an information system
currently managed by the SAyDS's Hazardous Waste Unit and installed in all provinces. At the
pilot (provincial) level, the project also assisted in implementing EMS based on ISO 14001 for 23
SME in Mendoza; established eco-efficient practices in tourist lodgings in the municipalities of
Puerto Madryn, San Martín de los Andes, and Termas de Río Hondo; implemented Clean
Production Plans in 28 SME in Tucumán Province to reduce pollution levels in the Salí-Dulce
River basin; and strengthened the environmental planning capacity of 7 municipalities and 2
provinces through the development of               USWM plans, technical assistance, and training.
Moreover, through the operation of the MECL, the SAyDS strengthened its regulatory role and
took a first step toward becoming a law enforcement institution. In summary, the SAyDS has
provided significant contributions in its advisory role to building the institutional capacity of the
national and provincial governments for pollution management and to improving environmental
awareness in the local governments through knowledge sharing.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1. Deteriorating macro-economic situation contributing to Argentina´s largest bank
default crisis and shortage of local counterpart funds. Argentina's economic crisis of 2001
generated a reduction in industrial activity, financial losses, and the closing of many SME. In this
context, the public-private matching grant program (US$12 million) was cancelled in May 2001.
The difficult economic climate after the crisis generated a shortage and untimely provision of
counterpart funds from the SAyDS, which led to reduction in disbursements rates, cancellation of


                                                     - 8 -

loan funds, and restructuring of project components in April 2003.


5.1.2. Changes in administration. Four presidents were elected between December 1999 and
May 2002. These changes led to high levels of institutional uncertainty and adversely affected
project continuity ­ leading to the very slow progress and disbursements during the project's first
three years (see Chart 1 in Annex 1b).

5.1.3. Quick World Bank response to the corralito. In response to the Argentina economic
crisis, the World Bank amended a number of projects to address social priorities and reassigned
funds from existing projects to finance new health, education, and social action programs. The
Argentina Pollution Management Project was restructured so that the Bank could focus resources
on investments to support the health and well being of vulnerable poor groups during the crisis.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1. Delays in and shortage of counterpart funds. During the first 3 years of project
implementation, there were delays in the availability of counterpart funds to finance project
components. The main reason for the shortage of counterpart financing was the economic crisis
that affected Argentina in the early stage of the project.

5.2.2. Lack of ownership and clear lines of communication to establish an Inter-
Jurisdictional Committee for the Air Quality and Noise Monitoring Network.                   During
project preparation, an agreement was proposed between Greater Buenos Aires provincial and
municipal authorities to establish an Inter-Jurisdictional Committee to manage and oversee an Air
Quality and Noise Monitoring Network. This agreement was never signed by the participant
institutions. The committee lacked ownership and political commitment, and the lines of
communication between the authorities were limited at best. In consequence, this sub-component
was cancelled.

5.2.3. Changes in Ministry Line. The PEU was originally created under the Ministry of the
Presidency, subsequently transferred to the Ministry of Local and Social Development, and finally
established at the Ministry of Environment and Health. This rotation of the SAyDS from one
ministry to another resulted in serious delays in decision making and operational planning and
frequent changes in personnel as well as internal project procedures. These factors adversely
affected continuity and resulted in delays in project implementation, especially during 1999­2002.
Chart 1 in Annex 1b shows how staff instability affected project performance and disbursements.

5.2.4. Staff turnover. During the first 3 years of project implementation, there was considerable
staff turnover in the PEU, with three different teams. This turnover resulted in several changes not
only in project coordinators but also key PEU staff. One of the teams was not familiar with either
the project or World Bank procedures.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
From April 1999, when the project was declared effective, to June 2002, the project was
characterized by a low level of loan disbursements. By June 2002 the project had disbursed only 5
percent of the original US$18 million loan. This low level of disbursement was justified by the


                                                     - 9 -

implementation issues mentioned above, as well as the fact that some of the activities originally
programmed for the loan were executed by the SAyDS with funds from the Second Japanese
Grant Nº 27062. It can be assumed that the project team was dedicated to the activities assigned
to those funds (US$823,147) instead of using loan proceeds during the period mentioned.

5.4 Costs and financing:
As of December 2005, the final total cost of the project amounted to the equivalent of US$7.7
million (including GOA's counterpart contributions). The original investment costs also included
US$6.0 million to be financed by the private beneficiaries of the Cost-Sharing Grant Program for
promotion of EMS. These private sector funds were not leveraged because of the cancellation of
this program. After the loan was restructured at mid-term review, the Bank financed only US$6
million of the remaining components, while the government counterpart contributions amounted
to US$1.7 million.

With respect to cost sharing, at appraisal the project was to be financed 50 percent by the Bank,
33 percent by the GOA, and 17 percent by SME as part of the Cost-Sharing Grant Program. The
final cost-sharing figures were 78 percent financed by the Bank and 22 percent by the GOA.
These changes were partly a result of the cancellation of US$12 million in loans and
approximately US$18 million in government counterpart funds (see project cost details in
Annexes      2a   (Project     Costs    by Component),      2b    (Project    Costs   by    Procurement
Arrangements­Appraisal), 2c (Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements­Actual Estimate),
and 2d (Project Financing by Component).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability is rated as likely. At the institutional level, the project chiefly provided
technical assistance to national and provincial agencies, which were allowed to set up a
"bottom-up" strategy that defined responsibilities and procedures for coordinating, regulating, and
monitoring environmental issues. The institutional strengthening also made it possible to develop
a standardized environmental strategy through the implementation of an integrated Hazardous
Waste Information System in 28 provinces and SWM programs in some municipalities. Both
strategies helped disseminate identical procedures and promote environmental sustainability in the
participating local governments. The local governments have improved awareness of
environmental issues in their jurisdictions and prepared strategic plans to continue the trend.

In the long term, sustainability of the technical assistance will depend on institutional stability and
flexibility, as well as operational and financial capacity to invest in research and development.
After the economic crisis and the subsequent loan cancellations, adequate financial resources must
be channeled and the Integrated National Strategy for USWM implemented to ensure
sustainability. Since the follow-up loan was approved in February 2006, and enjoys strong
government commitment, this is highly likely.

The certification laboratory will generate its own revenues from vehicle testing fees. The SAyDS
is trying to ensure that those revenues are funneled directly to the laboratory's budget instead of
the general SAyDS budget to ensure the financial sustainability of this investment component



                                                 - 10 -

beyond the project life. With the laboratory as a key base, environmental vehicle control now can
be expanded to a higher level of services for the entire automobile industry, not only in Argentina
but in the rest of South America.

Another very important activity that is expected to be sustainable in the long run is the Clean
Production Plan agreed in Tucumán. After the project finance was completed, a Clean Production
Center was established in Tucumán with resources from the private sector based on the successful
results of the project. The center's operations are expected to be sustainable with private
contributions.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition arrangements differ across the beneficiaries of the project. Environmental authorities at
provincial and municipal levels are now well aware of the significant impact of the implementation
of innovative and more cost effective pollution management instruments and committed to
continuing environmental activities in their current operations. The most prominent case is the
MECL which has high maintenance and operational costs. An economic feasibility study was
carried out and the financial projections show that these charges can cover the cost of
maintenance, depreciation of equipment, and personnel. While the SAyDS already has assigned a
specific line for the MECL in their budget, the SAyDS has additionally requested the ministry of
economy the right to directly apply the revenues coming from the test implementation to the
O&M instead of sending them to general revenues.

Regarding the SWM activities financed by the project, all of them were studies and some of them
related to the economic sustainability of a new SWM system. Several provincial and municipal
institutions understood their economic and environmental responsibilities SWM. However they
still need to involve the rest of the society in understanding the problem and their economic
responsibility in financing the system, on average only 50% of the population pay their SW related
fees. In response, the GOA has negotiated with the Bank a follow-up investment project to
improve public health and quality of life by constructing environmental and financially sustainable
final disposal facilities for solid waste in Argentina.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during the project implementation stage is rated satisfactory. The Bank
responded when the GOA requested support to improve its performance and institutional
capability to provide key environmental services, in line with the CAS policy objective of
sustainable environmental protection and management.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance is considered mixed. As mentioned earlier, the project suffered major startup
delays. Bank supervision is rated moderately unsatisfactory in the first phase and satisfactory in
the second phase, starting at mid-term review. In the first phase the Bank had a more passive
attitude to poor project performance, but was also more preoccupied with addressing the broader
crisis and the overall Bank response. The team did not react quickly to such specific project
implementation issues as changes in the ministry line, staff rotation, slow disbursements, and



                                                  - 11 -

shortage of counterpart resources. In the second phase, the Bank team was more proactive in
adjusting and restructuring the project to achieve outcomes. During this period the Aides Memoir
were more detailed, covered project issues, and identified next steps.

The project was amended twice to respond to the needs of the Borrower: the first was carried
out in May 2001, and the second was implemented in the second half of 2002. There were three
task managers during the execution of the project. The Bank conducted 14 supervision missions,
and project supervision took 163 staff weeks.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory, when the above ratings are combined.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. The Borrower provided a highly
committed team to prepare the project. The Borrower's staff spent significant time with the Bank
preparation team through the implementation of two Policy and Human Resource Development
grants to design and formulate the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's implementation performance is considered mixed. During the early stage of
project implementation, the ministry line responsible for the environmental sector changed several
times. Government changes at the same time meant that the SAyDS suffered frequent changes in
top management and personnel. Needless to say, such frequent changes were highly disruptive of
project performance, and the early stage of the project is rated unsatisfactory.

Government performance in providing timely counterpart resources was unsatisfactory. The
shortage of allocated funds and their late release in the fiscal year was a constant obstacle to
smooth contracting and adequate operational planning, with the overall result of a low
disbursement rate.

Once the SAyDS was established in the Ministry of Environment and Health, and after project
restructuring, government performance improved considerably. Counterpart funding was
adequate, management stable, and support to the SAyDS proactive. This second period can be
rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency, the SAyDS, was satisfactory. Despite early
problems with staff turnover at the SAyDS, the economic crisis, and lack of counterpart
resources, the performance of the implementation agency can be considered moderately
satisfactory because most of these factors were beyond its control. The SAyDS staff team
assigned after the mid-term review participated actively in project restructuring and showed
proactive response and commitment to managing the project and achieving the proposed
outcomes. In fact, this team was largely the same one involved during the successful project
preparation period in the late 1990s.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:



                                               - 12 -

Overall, Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Although Borrower performance improved
considerably in the 3 years before the loan closing date, the economic crisis and frequent rotation
in the ministry line and personnel in the early stage of implementation made it difficult for the
project to perform smoothly.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1 Project Design and Policy Implications

8.1.1. A set of clear, direct, and simple indicators focusing on project outcome and
performance can help improve project implementation. At startup the project did not
incorporate easily measurable indicators at the objectives and outcome levels, as shown in the
original logical framework. These indicators could have improved monitoring and evaluation,
especially in the early stage of project implementation. The original indicators focused mainly on
products and activities rather than the larger vision of the project. Outcome indicators to measure
overall performance and development impact would have been particularly useful in a project with
such frequent rotation of personnel in the PEU. After the mid-term review a new set of indicators
was established, and project monitoring improved considerably.

8.1.2. The statement of objectives and expectations should be neither too ambitious nor too
vague. Project objectives and design expectations need to be consistent so that one project is not
expected to address most issues in a sector. Project investments should be limited to specific areas
rather than attempting to address multiple sectoral issues broadly and vaguely. Also, the
objectives themselves could have been more carefully defined and articulated that those in this
project.

8.2 Project Implementation

8.2.1. Constant changes in project management can adversely affect outcome, no matter
how well prepared the project is. Early changes in the leadership of the PEU were at least partly
responsible for the project's poor performance in the early stage of implementation and the low
level of disbursements. Shifting government priorities as a result of the financial crisis also
resulted in serious consequences, such as the cancellation of more than US$12 million from the
Bank's loan.

8.2.2. Proactive supervision and project restructuring is essential as soon as the
macroeconomic situation changes to avoid delays in implementation. The Bank team and
GOA together analyzed the viability of project investment components, including timely
contributions of local counterpart resources, when the economic crisis began.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8 for the Borrower's assessment of the project.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A




                                                - 13 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information




                                             - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                        1
                Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Part A: Partnerships for Pollution
Management

Workshops for the implementation of SAyDS 2                                  - Global Communication Strategy (2002)
priority policies                                                            - Workshop for the preparation of the
                                                                             National Strategy for Urban Solid Waste
                                                                             Management (June 28­29, 2004)
                                                                             - Workshop to launch the National Strategy
                                                                             for Urban Solid Waste Management (October
                                                                             19­20, 2005)

Output tasks for the regulatory and legal      N/A                           - Clean Production Plan in Tucumán,
framework and definition of the bases for                                    including Legal Aspects
fulfillment of agreements with local                                         - Environmental Management System in
government                                                                   Mendoza, including Legal Aspects
                                                                             - Environmental Management System in
                                                                             Chubut, including Legal Aspects
                                                                             - 28 Agreements for Clean Production Plan in
                                                                             Tucumán
                                                                             - 19 Agreements for Environmental
                                                                             Management System in Mendoza
                                                                             - 5 Agreements for Environmental
                                                                             Management System in Puerto Madryn
                                                                             - 6 Agreements for Eco-Efficient Practices in
                                                                             Río Hondo
                                                                             - 10 Agreements for Eco-Efficient Practices
                                                                             in San Martín de los Andes
                                                                             - 6 Agreements for Eco-Efficient Practices in
                                                                             Puerto Madryn

Workshops to introduce concepts and            3                             - Eco-Efficient Practices in Hotels, Termas
lessons about eco-efficient practices in at                                  de Río Hondo (Santiago del Estero)
least 4 provinces or municipalities                                          - Eco-Efficient Practices in San Martín de los
                                                                             Andes (Neuquén)
                                                                             - Eco-Efficient Practices in Puerto Madryn
                                                                             (Chubut)

Implementation of integrated information       N/A                           - 28 computers (1 per province) with software
system for hazardous waste management in                                     for hazardous waste management installed in
provinces or municipalities                                                  the SAyDS
                                                                             - 24 computers with software for hazardous
                                                                             waste management installed in 24 provinces.

Execution of studies and pilot projects for    N/A                           Mendoza Province
implementation of Environmental                                              - 17 firms implementing EMS ISO 14001
Management Systems (EMS) in at least 2                                       - 13 firms implementing EMS ISO 14001
industrial groups                                                            - 5 firms obtaining ISO 14001 certification
                                                                             Chubut Province
                                                                             - 4 firms implementing ISO 14001 and
                                                                             expected to obtain certification in the first
                                                                             quarter of 2006

Instruments and financial mechanism for                                      - Sustainability of future actions through
environmental management identified                                          self-financing mechanism within the EMS
                                                                             framework developed in Mendoza

Workshops and training in pollution            2                             - Workshops on EMS ISO 14001and Clean
management                                                                   Production Plan in Tucumán

Technical assistance to regions with potential N/A                           - 8 consultants trained in the implementation
for exporting through the incorporation of                                   of ISO 14001
EMS                                                                          - 28 enterprise managers trained to maintain



                                                          - 15 -

                                                            and improve the implementation of EMS
                                                            - 43 internal environmental audits for EMS
                                                            ISO 14001

Part B: Integrated Management of
Environmental Quality

Studies including recommendations for urban 6
solid waste management in at least 6
municipalities

Chascomús (Buenos Aires Province)            1              - Urban Solid Waste Management (USWM)
Comodoro Rivadavia (Chubut Province)                        Plan designed in Chascomús and Comodoro
                                                            Rivadavia, including a final disposal treatment
                                                            center for urban solid waste (USW) and a
                                                            proposal for a selective collection system and
                                                            composting of organic material
                                                            - Projects elaborated for remediation and
                                                            monitoring of open dumps in both
                                                            municipalities

Monteros (Tucumán Province)                  1              - Proposal for USWM systems, including
                                                            rural communities

Crespo, Nogoyá, Victoria, Gualeguay,         2              - USWM Plan for this microregion.in Entre
Diamante, Hernández, Lucas González,                        Ríos Province, with proposals presented as
Seguí, Viale and Villa Libertador San Martín;               pilot experiences, including composting,
Microregión Centro-Sur-Oeste (Entre Ríos                    regional commercialization of inorganic
Province)                                                   material, and final disposal in one landfill

Río Hondo (Santiago del Estero Province)     1              - USWM Plan including aspects referred to
                                                            preclassification, collection, and transport,
                                                            final disposal of USW, and a feasibility study
                                                            for the implementation of a treatment and
                                                            final disposal center for solid waste

Área Metropolitana de Mendoza (Mendoza       1              - USWM Plan including optimization of
Province)                                                   USWM, closure of final disposal sites, and
                                                            implementation of a treatment center for USW

Puerto Madryn (Chubut province)              1              - Closure and remediation plan for the open
                                                            dump of Puerto Madryn, including
                                                            environmental monitoring requirements
General Pueyrredón Municipality, Mar del     1
Plata (Buenos Aires Province)

Creation of a diffusion mechanism: manual    1              Launching of the National Strategy for Urban
and guidelines for solid waste management                   Solid Waste Management

Improvement and functioning of monitoring    3              Equipment provided to the 3 municipalities by
and control systems in 3 municipalities:                    the firms Service Instruments and Gasol
Campana and Zárate (Buenos Aires                            Platense
Province) and Puerto Madryn (Chubut
Province)

Technical assistance for USWM in at least 3 3               This activity was included in the terms of
municipalities (Mendoza, Termas del Río                     reference corresponding to the studies at
Hondo, and Tucuman)                                         //municipal level explained above.

Part C: Air Quality Management

Motor Vehicle Emission Laboratory (MVEL)     1              - Laboratory installed
able to certify emissions tests in prototype                - Equipment delivered (from Japan and
and new vehicles of national or foreign                     United States)
manufacture to guarantee fulfillment and                    - Equipment delivered (from United Stated
compliance with emission standards,                         and Germany)
according to the regulation framework




                                                  - 16 -

 - Stage I: Signing of contract and delivery of
equipment
 - Stage II: Signing of contract and delivery of
equipment

Economic and financial feasibility study to     1                             - Economic and financial feasibility study
guarantee sustainability of the MVEL

Technical assistance to MVEL personnel          N/A                           - Technical assistance to MVEL personnel
                                                                              during stages I and II of the implementation
                                                                              of the laboratory

At least 7 tests, according to the level of     N/A                           190 Tests (alongside 'Certification of at least
national vehicle production                                                   10 new models produced by the national and
                                                                              foreign vehicle industry'

Certification of at least 10 new models         N/A                           190 Tests (alongside 'At least 7 tests,
produced by the national and foreign vehicle                                  according to the level of national vehicle
industry                                                                      production'




Output Indicators:
                                                                         1
                Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                           - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Component A. Partnerships for Pollution Management          10.00             1.80              18
Component B. Integrated Management of Environmental          1.60             0.80              50
Quality
Component C. Greater Buenos Aires: Air Quality               5.30             3.40              64
Management
Component D. Municipal and Regional Pollution                1.10             0.00               0
Management

Total Baseline Cost                                         18.00             6.00
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.40             0.00               0
 Price Contingencies                                         0.40             0.00
                        Total Project Costs                 18.80             6.00
                  Total Financing Required                  18.80             6.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.90         0.10          0.00         1.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          5.20              0.80         0.20          0.00         6.20
                                  (4.80)           (0.60)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (5.40)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00        10.10          0.00         10.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (6.60)          (0.00)       (6.60)
4. Cost-Sharing Grant             0.00              0.00        12.10          0.00         12.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (6.00)          (0.00)       (6.00)
5. Workshops                      0.00              0.00         0.00          0.50         0.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Operating Costs                0.00              0.00         0.00          6.10         6.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          5.20              1.70        22.50          6.60         36.00
                                  (4.80)           (0.60)      (12.60)         (0.00)      (18.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          1.10             0.10         0.10           0.00        1.30



                                                - 18 -

                                           (3.40)             (0.20)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (3.80)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.40             0.00              0.40
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.20)            (0.00)           (2.20)
    4. Cost-Sharing Grant                   0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    5. Workshops                            0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                1.10               0.10              0.50             0.00              1.70
                                           (3.40)             (0.20)            (2.40)            (0.00)           (6.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Partnerships for            10.00         7.20         0.00        1.80         0.50       0.00       18.0      6.9       0.0
Pollution Management
2. Integrated Management        1.60         0.40         0.00        0.80         0.10       0.00       50.0      25.0      0.0
of Environmental Quality
3. Greater Buenos Aires:        5.30         9.80         0.00        3.40         1.10       0.00       64.2      11.2      0.0
Air Quality Management
4. Municipal and Regional       1.10         0.30         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Pollution Management




                                                           - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                       No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                            (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year     Count              Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               March 1997                      6    TM, OO, EC, 3 ENV                     S



 Appraisal/Negotiation
               December 1997                   8    TM, LC, 3 ENV, C, EC, OO              S


 Supervision
               June 1998                       1    ENV                                   S               S
               September 1998                  5    TM, 2 ENV, OO, C                      U               U
               June 1999                       2    TM, OO                                HU            HU
               March 2000                      3    TM, OO, ENV                           HU            HU
               October 2000                    3    TM, OO, ENV                           HU            HU
               July 2001                       2    TM, C                                 HU            HU
               June 2002 - Mid                 2    TM, C                                 U               U
               Term Review
               October 2002                    2    TM, C                                 S               S
               March 2003                      2    TM, ENV                               S               S
               September 2003                  2    TM, ENV                               S               S
               May 2004                        4    TM, JPA, ENV, C                       HS             HS
               October 2004                    3    TM, JPA, C                            HS             HS
               April 2005                      3    TM, ENV, C                            HS             HS
               July 2005                       3    TM, JPA, C                            HS             HS

 ICR
               December 2005                   3     TM, ENV, C                           HS             HS



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                      115                          528.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                     163                          614.4
  ICR                                              20                            91.5
  Total                                           298                          1,234
Identification and preparation include also appraisal and negotiation.




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Amendment to the Loan Agreement, BIRF Nº 4281­AR, December 2002.
Extension of Project's Closing Date, May 2004
Partial Cancellation Loan Proceeds 4281, November 2001.
Project Amendment Loan, July 2003.
Project Appraisal Document, January 1998.
Project Files: Mission TORs, BTO/Supervision Reports, Aides Memoir, Project Status Reports
for, June 1999 and May 2005.
Project Loan Agreement, January 1999
Proyecto Gestión de la Contaminación: Informe de Medio Término, June 2002
Proyecto Gestión de la Contaminación: Reformulación del Plan Operativo del Proyecto,
Informe Final, May 2001
Reallocation of Loan Funds, 4281­AR, September 2004.




                                            - 24 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Final Evaluation Report Summary

                     PROYECTO GESTIÓN DE LA CONTAMINACIÓN
                                          BIRF 4281­AR


I. Antecedentes

En el estudio sectorial realizado por el BIRF acerca de los problemas de contaminación en la
Argentina, Managing Environmental Pollution: Issues and Options, Reporte Nº 14070­AR del
16 de octubre de 1995, se señaló los problemas más serios de contaminación detectados en el
país. Estos básicamente estaban relacionados con la problemática de la contaminación de las
aguas subterráneas y superficiales, la contaminación atmosférica y sonora, los basurales no
controlados, la existencia de instituciones ambientales débiles, y la virtual ausencia de información
y de monitoreo ambiental.

El Gobierno argentino (GOA), por su parte, ha reconocido que el basarse exclusivamente en
sistemas regulatorios de "comando y control" no garantiza el cumplimiento de la normativa y, a
su vez, no resulta costo-efectivo, al no permitir aprovechar las ventajas que trae aparejadas la
aplicación de instrumentos que motiven a quienes contaminan a cumplir con la normativa
ambiental. Consecuentemente, Argentina está empeñada en llevar adelante una estrategia
consistente en desarrollar una cultura de cumplimiento de dicha normativa ambiental,
demostrando la viabilidad del uso de un menú de instrumentos innovadores de gestión de la
contaminación de carácter no-regulatorio (voluntarios), que se basan en incentivos de mercado
para lograr una mejora de la competitividad y, al mismo tiempo, permiten a las empresas generar
ahorros financieros ciertos, derivados de la implementación de los mismos.

II.     Objetivos y Componentes

Por lo expuesto en el numeral anterior, el Proyecto Gestión de la Contaminación (PGC), en su
diseño original, apuntó a paliar la problemática descripta, y al mismo tiempo, a apoyar los
objetivos de política del Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) en lo concerniente a la gestión y
promoción de un desarrollo sustentable, específicamente en cuanto a su objetivo de mejorar del
desempeño y la capacidad institucional del GOA para proporcionar servicios ambientales.

Para lograrlo, las acciones especificas que se iban a desarrollar en el marco del PGC se orientaron
a promover mejoras en la coordinación de la gestión ambiental, tanto a nivel nacional como
provincial y municipal, al igual que enfoques integrales, a modo de experiencias piloto replicables,
sobre la base de "lecciones aprendidas" relacionadas -entre otros- con sistemas de gestión
ambiental, programas de ecoeficiencia, de producción limpia, etc., para reducir los serios
problemas de contaminación detectados y alentar la constitución de asociaciones innovadoras
entre el sector público y el privado, fortaleciendo los procesos de participación y resolución de
conflictos.

Los componentes originales del Proyecto fueron los siguientes:



                                                - 25 -

COMPONENTE A. Asociaciones Público-Privadas para la Gestión de la Contaminación: (i)
fortalecimiento del rol de la Secretaria de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo Sustentable en la
gestión de la contaminación; y (ii) sistemas de gestión ambiental, prácticas de ecoeficiencia y
programas de certificación para la industria.

COMPONENTE B. Gestión Integral de la Calidad Ambiental a Nivel Municipal (municipios de
Campana y Zárate): (i) asistencia técnica para la gestión de la contaminación a nivel municipal, (ii)
gestión integral de la contaminación de una cuenca hídrica local, y (iii) apoyo a la gestión de la
contaminación de iniciativas lideradas por la industria.

COMPONENTE C. Gestión de la Calidad del Aire y Ruido en el Gran Buenos Aires: (i) red de
monitoreo de la calidad del aire y ruido, (ii) laboratorio de control de emisiones gaseosas
vehiculares y centro de certificación, y (iii) plan de manejo de la calidad de aire para el Gran
Buenos Aires.

COMPONENTE D. Gestión de la Contaminación a Nivel Municipal y Regional: (i) gestión de la
contaminación a nivel municipal: municipio de Puerto Madryn, y (ii) zona costera patagónica

III. Evaluación del Desempeño del Prestatario durante la Implementación del Proyecto

Para realizar una evaluación adecuada del Proyecto, se estima conveniente establecer un punto de
inflexión a partir del primer semestre del año 2002, período en que se consolida una nueva
conducción, tanto a nivel de la Dirección Nacional del Proyecto como de su Unidad Ejecutora, y
porque las condiciones de Argentina cambiaron radicalmente y el país no sólo abandonó la
convertibilidad unitaria de su moneda respecto al dólar, sino que también comenzó a transitar
unas de sus peores crisis a nivel económico, social e institucional.

El bajo nivel de ejecución que tuvo el Proyecto desde la fecha en que el Préstamo fue declarado
efectivo, 28 de abril de 1999, obligó al organismo ejecutor, en mayo de 2001, a encarar una
primera reformulación del Proyecto original sobre la base de una revisión de las actividades
realizadas hasta ese momento. A partir de entonces, se definió nuevas estrategias y se tomó la
decisión de reducir el monto total del Préstamo; por ello, se canceló un total de US $ 6 millones
correspondientes a los fondos destinados al otorgamiento de aportes no reembolsables a la
industria privada, pequeñas y medianas empresas, basados en el mecanismo de Costos
Compartidos (Cost-Sharing Fund Mechanism) y orientados principalmente a la promoción de
sistemas de gestión ambiental y a la mejora en el desempeño ambiental integral.

Tal decisión, según consta en el documento de reformulación, se basó en "...la situación
coyuntural de profunda recesión de la industria argentina que dificulta considerablemente su
participación en el Programa"; en el mismo sentido, en la Ayuda Memoria de la Misión de
Supervisión realizada entre el 16 y el 20 de julio de 2001, se agrega "...la muy baja demanda
efectiva de los beneficiarios para un esquema de costos compartidos, la complejidad de la
administración del componente y la escasez de recursos presupuestarios."




                                                - 26 -

La reformulación se planteó manteniendo los objetivos que inicialmente tenía el Proyecto, pero
introduciendo cambios en las líneas de acción. En cuanto a los fondos, debe mencionarse que la
cancelación fue oficialmente convalidada por el Ministerio de Economía el 28 de agosto de 2001.

Entonces, durante la primera etapa de ejecución -desde la fecha en que el Préstamo fue declarado
efectivo, 28 de abril de 1999, hasta junio de 2002- se observó un bajo nivel de ejecución, al punto
que a noviembre de dicho año, el BIRF solamente había desembolsado un total de US $
1.627.131, es decir, un 9,04 % del valor del préstamo original de US $ 18 millones, porcentaje
que se eleva a 13,56 % si se considera que en agosto de 2001, se había cancelado US $ 6
millones.

No obstante la baja ejecución mencionada, algunos de los indicadores de resultados esperados
fueron alcanzados, tal como surge de la revisión de medio término, realizada en junio de 2002. Si
también se toma en cuenta los resultados alcanzados en actividades financiadas con fondos de la
segunda donación japonesa, en líneas generales, se puede concluir que el Proyecto obtuvo logros,
pues permitió fortalecer un acercamiento entre la autoridad central y las provincias y municipios
respecto al tratamiento de temas tan importantes como el manejo de residuos sólidos urbanos y el
monitoreo y diagnóstico ambiental. Se trabajó con instituciones regionales y locales fortaleciendo
capacidades y estrechando el diálogo con interlocutores de variados sectores, y se logró una
mejor comprensión de los problemas ambientales existentes en diversas regiones del país.

Los logros mayores y más significativos en esta etapa se obtuvieron en el componente A.1,
seguido por los componentes B y D.1. Sin embargo, no se obtuvo los resultados inicialmente
esperados en el componente A.2., ya que, como se señalara, fue dado de baja. En el caso del
componente C, relacionado con la contaminación atmosférica, debe indicarse que si bien se había
decidido dejar sin efecto la implementación de una red de monitoreo de aire para el Gran Buenos
Aires, quedó pendiente de ejecución la adquisición del equipamiento y puesta en funcionamiento
del laboratorio de control de emisiones gaseosas vehiculares. Por su parte, el componente D.2.,
referido a la gestión ambiental costera en la Patagonia, perdió su sentido porque el proyecto GEF,
inicialmente asociado al PGC, fue desvinculado del mismo.

Un análisis de los principales factores que incidieron en esta baja ejecución de la primera etapa del
Proyecto, con relación al cronograma inicial previsto, indica que:

1.      Varias de las actividades originalmente programadas para ejecutar con el Préstamo se
realizaron con fondos de la segunda donación japonesa, No. 27062, cuyo propósito fue llevar a
cabo el diseño y la preparación del PGC. A la fecha en que se declaró la efectividad del Préstamo,
aún se contaba con fondos de dicha donación.
2.      La disponibilidad de recursos tuvo una incidencia negativa en la ejecución del Proyecto, en
cuanto que el otorgamiento de créditos presupuestarios anuales fue escaso y, en algunos años,
nulo, al igual que sus respectivas cuotas trimestrales.
3.      Desde el inicio de la implementación del Proyecto se produjeron diversos cambios en la
Dirección Nacional del Proyecto, al igual que en la conformación de la Unidad Ejecutora (cuatro
equipos diferentes desde la efectividad) y en la estructura y dependencia de la actual Secretaría de
Ambiente y Desarrollo Sustentable (SAyDS), lo cual también implicó modificaciones en los



                                                - 27 -

procedimientos internos.

Todos estos factores, presentes en mayo de 2001 y aún latentes en junio de 2002, hicieron
necesarios nuevos ajustes y modificaciones de las actividades con el fin de reencausar
definitivamente el Proyecto para el período de ejecución restante, pues las condiciones que
motivaron su diseño se mantenían, al igual que sus principales objetivos. Por ello, se decidió llevar
adelante una segunda reformulación de las actividades del Proyecto y sus costos, tema que fue
evaluado y acordado con el Gerente del Proyecto del BIRF, durante la misión correspondiente a
la revisión de medio término, en junio de 2002.

En tal sentido, se reestructuró los componentes originales, se reasignó las categorías del Préstamo
y se solicitó la cancelación de otros US $ 6 millones. Al respecto, es de destacar que los saldos en
dólares observables en cada uno de los componentes deben evaluarse a partir de la licuación que
experimentan los valores presupuestados en dólares, en el contexto de la devaluación que tuviese
el peso argentino.

Se solicitó entonces al BIRF una enmienda del Convenio de Préstamo mediante la cual se
planteaban los siguientes requerimientos:

1.      Acordar una reestructuración de los componentes del Proyecto, focalizando las
actividades que se iban a realizar hacia áreas prioritarias dentro de posibles escenarios
presupuestarios y buscando la sustentabilidad posproyecto de las mismas.
2.      Modificar las categorías del Préstamo y el monto de sus respectivas asignaciones,
cancelando un total de US $ de 6 millones.
3.      Modificar consecuentemente los indicadores de monitoreo.
4.      Extender la fecha de cierre, inicialmente prevista para junio de 2003, por un mínimo de 18
meses, con el fin de hacer viable una ejecución adecuada del Proyecto rediseñado.

El 1 de abril de 2003, el BIRF aprobó la enmienda solicitada, acordando una extensión efectiva de
la fecha de cierre hasta el 30 de junio de 2004, con la salvedad expresa de que a dicha fecha
evaluaría los avances del Proyecto, en relación con los índices de monitoreo establecidos, y en
virtud de esos resultados, consideraría una nueva extensión de seis meses adicionales, hasta
diciembre de 2004. En este sentido, mediante nota del 27 de mayo de 2004, el Banco,
unilateralmente, procedió a otorgar una extensión de la fecha de cierre del Proyecto hasta
diciembre de 2005.

Conforme a la enmienda aprobada, cabe destacar que el objetivo del Proyecto se mantuvo
nuevamente, ya que se apuntó a fortalecer la capacidad de la SAyDS para: (i) adoptar, pilotear y
realizar demostraciones de instrumentos e iniciativas innovadoras de gestión de la contaminación;
y (ii) promover la adopción de estos instrumentos e iniciativas por parte de las subdivisiones
políticas y administrativas del Prestatario.

Por su parte, los componentes del Proyecto quedaron redefinidos de la siguiente forma:
·       Componente A: Asociaciones para la Gestión de la Contaminación: (i) fortalecimiento del
rol de la SAyDS en la gestión de la contaminación y (ii) sistemas de gestión ambiental y prácticas



                                                - 28 -

de ecoeficiencia y programas de certificación ambiental para la industria.

·       Componente B: Gestión integral de la Calidad Ambiental a Nivel Provincial y/o Municipal.

·       Componente C: Gestión de la Calidad del Aire.

Ejecución del Proyecto a partir de la Enmienda

En el marco de los nuevos componentes, se desarrolló todas las actividades previstas y se alcanzó
las metas establecidas. Seguidamente se presenta una breve reseña y evaluación por componente
de las actividades más importantes llevadas a cabo en el PGC.

Componente A
A.1. Fortalecimiento del rol de la SAyDS en la gestión de la contaminación
Se desarrolló un Sistema de Información Integrado (SII) consistente en un software para generar
bases de datos con los registros de las inscripciones de las personas, físicas o jurídicas,
responsables de la generación, manejo, transporte, almacenamiento, tratamiento y disposición
final de residuos peligrosos, lo cual hace posible la "trazabilidad" de este tipo de residuos.

El SII se elaboró para ser utilizado por la Unidad de Residuos Peligrosos, y fortalecer, de esta
forma, el rol de la SAyDS de la Nación, en su carácter de autoridad de aplicación de la ley 24.051
de Residuos Peligrosos. Dicho sistema informático también fue puesto a disposición de los
organismos ambientales provinciales, responsables de llevar sus registros de residuos peligrosos
en sus propias jurisdicciones. Además, se adquirió los equipos informáticos adecuados para
instalar el SII, los que fueron destinados a la Unidad de Registro de Residuos Peligrosos de la
SAyDS y a todas las provincias y a la Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires.

A.2. Sistemas de gestión ambiental, prácticas de ecoeficiencia y programas de certificación
ambiental para la industria
En el marco de este subcomponente, se llevó a cabo actividades relacionadas con la
implementación de sistemas de gestión ambiental (SGA), buenas prácticas en hotelería (BPH) y
producción limpia (PL).

En lo que respecta a la implementación de SGA, se desarrolló dos programas piloto: uno en la
provincia de Mendoza y otro en la localidad de Puerto Madryn, provincia de Chubut. Ambos
pilotos, Mendoza y Puerto Madryn, se estructuraron esencialmente como Programas de
Implementación Grupal para el establecimiento de un sistema de gestión ambiental basado en la
Norma ISO 14001:1996. Para ello, se asistió técnicamente a un grupo seleccionado de empresas
Para el caso del piloto Mendoza, el grupo estuvo conformado por 19 empresas de distintos rubros de actividad,
mientras que el de Puerto Madryn lo conformaron seis empresas pesqueras. las que quedaron preparadas
para aprobar una Auditoría de Certificación, con el propósito de que pudiesen acceder -en caso
que así lo desearan- a la certificación de dicha norma.                    El Programa no financió la certificación de las
empresas participantes. Las empresas que optaron por emprender dicho proceso, lo realizaron por su cuenta.


Mediante la implementación de ambos pilotos se demostró la viabilidad de introducir instrumentos
novedosos para la gestión de la contaminación, como los SGA, en diferentes regiones y con


                                                          - 29 -

criterios de replicabilidad; todo ello, apuntando a fomentar el cumplimiento de la normativa
ambiental (municipal, provincial y nacional) y la mejora del desempeño ambiental general de las
empresas argentinas, especialmente de sus PYME, a través de la adopción voluntaria del SGA,
basándose en la norma certificable ISO 14001.

Por su parte, los programas de BPH apuntaron a implementar en grupos de establecimientos
hoteleros de distintas localidades turísticas (Termas de Río Hondo, San Martín de los Andes y
Puerto Madryn) con el objetivo de posibilitarles la identificación de oportunidades para lograr la
minimización de residuos, el ahorro de agua y energía, entre otras prácticas aplicables.

Con el propósito de establecer la situación inicial de cada establecimiento, se realizó auditorías
ambientales. A partir de éstas, se trabajó con todos los hoteles en la preparación de guías, para
cada uno de los establecimientos participantes, con recomendaciones específicas de buenas
prácticas en cada caso, cuya implementación no requería de grandes inversiones, sino de la
realización de cambios en las prácticas habituales, de manera de mejorar su eficiencia.

La implementación de un PPL en la provincia de Tucumán tuvo como objetivo iniciar una serie de
acciones en forma conjunta -nación/provincia-, tendientes a revertir un problema de larga data: la
contaminación de la cuenca del Río Salí-Dulce, apuntando a reducir los niveles de materia
orgánica y nutrientes que se vierten en la misma.

Se planteó un manejo integral de todos los factores que influyen directa e indirectamente en la
calidad de las aguas de la cuenca; se aplicó gradualmente las acciones necesarias para lograr una
reducción de la contaminación, estableciendo un horizonte temporal de no más de cuatro años; y
se logró, al mismo tiempo, una adecuación gradual a la normativa vigente. Para ello, se identificó
las áreas ambientales críticas de los procesos de las 28 empresas voluntariamente adheridas al plan
y se formuló soluciones técnicas y de gestión. Para el posterior control, se instrumentó un sistema
de monitoreo, basado en la realización de Auditorías de Seguimiento, utilizando los indicadores
propuestos.
Mediante la implementación del plan provincial de producción limpia (PPPL) se logró los
siguientes objetivos:


ü       Comenzar a dar soluciones para resolver la crítica situación de contaminación de la cuenca
del Río Salí-Dulce, reduciendo sustancialmente la cantidad de materia orgánica y de nutrientes
que se vierten en ésta, en un plazo de no más de cuatro años.
ü       Manejar integralmente todos los factores que influyen directa e indirectamente en la
calidad de las aguas de la cuenca.
ü       Brindar alternativas de soluciones efectivas de bajo costo, siempre que esto sea posible.
ü       Desarrollar un sencillo, efectivo y sistemático programa de control y monitoreo para
lograr una adecuación gradual al cumplimiento efectivo de la normativa.

Es de destacar, que el uso de este tipo de instrumentos que conllevan enfoques voluntarios, tal
como el PPPL, trajo aparejadas ventajas importantes a las empresas que los implementaron, las
que comprenden aspectos tales como la gradualidad en el cumplimiento de metas comprometidas,
la mejora efectiva en sus estándares ambientales, la cercanía con la autoridad, la obtención de



                                                 - 30 -

incentivos económicos y financieros, el aumento de la eficiencia productiva e incluso, una mejoría
en la imagen comercial.

Componente B: Gestión Integral de la Calidad Ambiental a Nivel Provincial y/o Municipal
Otro de los grupos de actividades relevantes, llevadas a cabo en el marco del PGC, han sido las
relacionadas con la asistencia técnica para la realización de diagnósticos ambientales focalizados
en el problema prioritario de los residuos sólidos urbanos.

La finalidad de los distintos trabajos realizados consistió en la formulación, a partir de un
diagnóstico ambiental integral de las situaciones municipales, de un Sistema de Gestión Integral
de Residuos Sólidos Urbanos (SGIRSU), para asegurar su sustentabilidad desde las perspectivas
técnica, ambiental y económico-financiera.

En todos los casos, se trabajó tratando de asegurar la participación activa del municipio, de forma
tal que los productos obtenidos resultaran de utilidad directa para cada uno de ellos en la fase de
implementación de las líneas de acción trazadas como resultado de los estudios propuestos.

Las actividades que se llevaron a cabo en dichos estudios para lograr un adecuado diseño del
SGIRSU comprendieron la caracterización de los RSU generados, el análisis y evaluación de las
alternativas de recolección, transporte, tratamiento y disposición final de RSU, como así también,
los planes de clausura de los vertederos no controlados existentes en las distintas unidades de
estudio.

En particular, se analizaron las alternativas de localización de los Centros de Tratamiento y
Disposición Final (CTDF) de los RSU y se realizó, al mismo tiempo, los estudios de impacto
ambiental correspondientes en cada caso.

Paralelamente, se llevó a cabo para los distintos SGIRSU una evaluación económico-financiera
para un horizonte temporal determinado que permitiera asegurar la viabilidad de la alternativa
seleccionada en relación con las finanzas municipales. En este punto, se observó carencias
importantes en los municipios en cuanto a la disponibilidad de información y al desconocimiento
de los costos asociados a la gestión de residuos. Asimismo, en cuanto al mercado de productos
recuperados, su carácter informal dificultó la identificación de la demanda, de los precios, de los
potenciales volúmenes de venta y, fundamentalmente, su correcta cuantificación para ser
incorporado a la referida evaluación.

Todo ello dificulta las posibilidades de garantizar la sustentabilidad del sistema y, por ende, entre
otros aspectos relevantes, el brindar soluciones integrales y duraderas al sector social en riesgo
vinculado a los residuos e identificado en los distintos estudios.

Al respecto, debe tenerse en cuenta que la problemática asociada a los RSU en Argentina se ha
agravado como producto de la profunda crisis económica que afectó al país en los últimos años,
con el consiguiente empobrecimiento que experimentaron todos los sectores de la sociedad, pero
en particular la clase media y la baja, muchas de cuyas familias hoy viven de la recolección
informal de los residuos en las calles y basurales de las zonas urbanas de todo el país. Por otra



                                                - 31 -

parte, la muy baja prioridad que durante dicha crisis se le otorgó en los presupuestos municipales
a la problemática de la disposición final de los RSU, generó un aumento significativo en el número
de basurales a cielo abierto, siendo la consecuencia de todo ello, el elevado costo que esto
representa para la sociedad en términos de impactos sobre la salud y sobre la degradación
ambiental.

La necesidad de urgentes respuestas para la seria y generalizada situación existente, impulsó al
GOA, a través de la SAyDS, a priorizar como línea política la temática asociada a la gestión de
los RSU, dentro de su Agenda Ambiental Nacional lanzada en 2004.

En tal sentido, los primeros pasos se orientaron a diseñar, en el marco del componente B del
PGC, una Estrategia Nacional para la Gestión Integral de los Residuos Sólidos Urbanos
(ENGIRSU). Ello involucró, entre otras tareas, la realización de un diagnóstico exhaustivo del
sector de RSU a nivel nacional, sobre la base de relevamientos directos en 19 provincias y la
revisión de variada información secundaria--una de cuyas fuentes la constituyó los trabajos
realizados con anterioridad a través del Proyecto--y una serie de actividades relacionadas con la
validación de la ENGIRSU, desde su diseño, por parte de los distintos actores involucrados y
grupos de interés (en particular, dos talleres con amplia convocatoria y representatividad).

Finalmente, también en el marco de este componente y como instrumentos para la implementación
práctica de la ENGIRSU, se formuló dos planes provinciales de gestión integral de RSU
aplicables en Tucumán y Chubut, los que, sobre la base del criterio de integralidad de la gestión
de RSU, buscaron soluciones efectivas que incluyesen, siempre que ello sea factible, el desarrollo
de esquemas regionales de manejo, como una forma de mejorar la economía de escala y disminuir
los costos de implementación, así como el establecimiento de acuerdos intermunicipales.




Componente C: Gestión de la Caidad del Aire
La actividad prevista para este componente, enfocada a la creación y operación de un laboratorio
para la certificación de las emisiones vehiculares (LCEGV), se implementó, casi totalmente en el
período comprendido entre julio de 2002 y diciembre de 2005, ya que no se había registrado
avances significativos en la primera etapa del Proyecto, es decir, en el período previo a la revisión
de medio término.

El LCEGV se considera de vital importancia para consolidar el fortalecimiento de la función
normativa de la Secretaría, pues la instalación de este laboratorio le permitirá, en su carácter de
autoridad de aplicación, ejercer su poder policía y asegurar el cumplimiento de los estándares de
emisión establecidos en el artículo 33 de la Ley de Tránsito y Seguridad Vial N° 24.449 y su
Decreto Reglamentario N° 779/95. Dicha normativa requiere de ensayos de certificación que
comprenden la homologación y la conformidad de producción de modelos nuevos, nacionales e
importados.

Argentina no contaba con un laboratorio oficial disponible para llevar a cabo certificaciones en las
condiciones exigidas por la normativa vigente; por lo tanto, su instalación y puesta en marcha le



                                                 - 32 -

permite a la SAyDS:


ü      Cumplir con el mandato establecido en la normativa vigente
ü      Contribuir a la preservación y conservación de la calidad del aire
ü      Contar con una herramienta de control fundamental, desarrollando aspectos científicos,
tecnológicos, normativos y organizativos vinculados con la generación de emisiones gaseosas
vehiculares, en beneficio de la calidad de vida de toda la comunidad
ü      Cooperar con el crecimiento de la industria en el marco de un desarrollo sustentable,
teniendo en cuenta las necesidades del país y las posibilidades de la institución
ü      Fomentar iniciativas de investigación sobre reformulación de combustibles, equipos de
reconversión y tecnologías más limpias
ü      Sistematizar la información relativa a la generación de gases contaminantes provenientes
de fuentes móviles

La instalación del mencionado laboratorio, llevada a cabo en dos etapas que incluyeron la
incorporación de obras, instalaciones, tecnología y servicios, ha permitido habilitar
funcionalmente una célula de certificación de emisiones másicas de escape y evaporativas,
provenientes de vehículos livianos con motores ciclo Otto y Diesel, conforme con las normas
vigentes.

Conclusiones

La revisión y evaluación de las actividades descriptas para cada uno de los componentes ponen de
manifiesto el cumplimiento de los objetivos generales del Proyecto en cuanto queda demostrado
que--a través de la implementación de pilotos--es viable lograr mejoras en el cumplimiento de la
normativa ambiental y en el desempeño ambiental

Cabe consignar, además, que los niveles de ejecución fueron significativamente revertidos,
lográndose totalizar un 100% de ejecución de los fondos del Préstamo a la finalización del
Proyecto y, al mismo tiempo, se ha podido dar cumplimiento a los indicadores de monitoreo del
Proyecto.

Posibles Proyectos a Futuro

No obstante los logros ya alcanzados a través del Proyecto en relación con la temática de los
RSU, en particular, el diseño de la ENGIRSU, es importante destacar que la situación que se
pretende revertir, a partir de la implementación de una gestión integral y sostenible de los RSU en
todo el territorio de la República, involucra no solamente los costos propios de infraestructura y
operatividad de la nueva gestión, sino también, la eliminación de los enormes costos ocultos que
hoy tienen la forma de pasivos ambientales y sociales, y de afectación a la salud pública y calidad
de vida de la población. De allí la importancia que se le otorga al poder contar a futuro con
recursos financieros para que las provincias y sus municipios puedan elaborar e implementar sus
planes provinciales en el marco de los objetivos de la Estrategia Nacional.

Por otra parte, y en relación con otra temática importante, como el control de las emisiones,



                                                - 33 -

desde el punto de vista ambiental y de la salud de la población, y tomando en consideración la
sustentabilidad económica del LCEGV, es conveniente señalar la necesidad de ampliar la
capacidad de monitoreo y control de la contaminación del aire generada por vehículos
automotores en general, para preservar la calidad del recurso aire. Por ello, entre otros aspectos,
sería conveniente solicitar nuevamente asistencia financiera para:


ü        Incorporar tecnología y desarrollar los aspectos normativos, científicos y organizativos
que permitan controlar toda la gama de vehículos (nuevos y usados) que conforman el parque
automotor del país.
ü        Propiciar la instalación de una red de monitoreo automatizada,                      Este era uno de los objetivos
correspondientes al Componente C del Convenio Préstamo que fue dejado sin efecto con la Enmienda. en principio para
el área metropolitana de Buenos Aires, que permita controlar en forma continua la calidad del aire
y la incidencia de la contaminación proveniente de las fuentes móviles, sistematizando la
información recogida.

IV. Evaluación del Desempeño del BIRF

En cuanto a la evaluación del desempeño del BIRF en el gerenciamiento del Proyecto, el GOA
entiende que la relación fue la adecuada y la efectividad de la misma aceptable para este tipo de
operaciones; no obstante, cabe mencionar los siguientes aspectos que pueden considerarse para
futuros proyectos a modo de lecciones aprendidas:

1.       A lo largo del período de implementación se sucedieron cambios de task manager, factor
que--desde el punto de vista del Prestatario--no sólo significó adaptarse a nuevas conducciones,
cada una con su impronta, también ello incidió en el énfasis puesto en el desarrollo de ciertas
actividades en relación--en mayor o menor medida-- con la experiencia de cada uno de ellos.
2.       Durante el primer período de implementación del Proyecto, la actitud del BIRF frente a
los bajos, y en algunos casos nulos, niveles de ejecución fue pasiva, ya que frente a la evidente
necesidad de generar en el GOA algún tipo de acción para dar cumplimiento a las obligaciones
emanadas del Convenio de Préstamo, ésta no fue explicítamente manifestada en ningún momento
por el organismo.
3.       Asimismo, hubiese resultado conveniente que se planteara con el GOA una revisión de
fondo acerca de la viabilidad de todas y cada una de las actividades, en cuanto se visualizó los
primeros sintomas de la profunda crisis que afectó al país.
4.       El BIRF debió desaconsejar el uso de fondos de la segunda donación japonesa para el
financiamiento de actividades previstas en el Proyecto, bajo el entendimiento de que los fondos de
donación deben ser utilizados para la preparación de proyectos y no para su implementación;
además, ello incidió negativamente en los niveles de ejecución del Préstamo. Dichos fondos de
donación podrían haberse destinado a estudios complementarios.
5.       El BIRF debió advertir al GOA acerca de las consecuencias negativas que tendría el
desmembramiento del GEF asociado a uno de los componentes del PGC, componente D, tal
como fuera concebido en sus comienzos, ya que ello significaba que el mencionado componente
que le diera origen careciera de sentido y, por ende, su ejecución no fuera viable.




                                                        - 34 -

- 35 -

