Report No. PIC5043
Project Name                       Argentina-Pollution Management Project (@+)
Region                             Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                             Environment
Project ID                         ARPA6050
Borrower                           Republic of Argentina (GOA)
Implementing Agency                Secretaria de Recursos Naturales y
Desarrollo Sustentable
(SRNyDS)
San Martin 459 - Primer Piso
(1004) Capital Federal, Argentina
Contact: Dra. Mabel Behal and Lic.Ana Corbi
Tel.: (54-1) 348-8306 Fax: (54-1)348-8312
Date this PID was prepared         April 25, 1997
Project Appraisal Date             September 1997
Projected Board Date               March 5, 1998
1.      Country and Sector Background. Argentina has the highest GDP
per capita in Latin America but has more serious environmental
problems and less institutional capacity for addressing them than
expected at that income level. A recent World Bank sector study on
pollution problems in Argentina (Managing Environmental Pollution:
Issues and Options, Report No. 14070-AR, October 16, 1995) ranked
the key issues as groundwater contamination, air and noise
pollution, uncontrolled solid waste dumps, surface water
contamination, weak institutions, and the virtual absence of
environmental monitoring information and analysis. Coverage of
water supply and sanitation infrastructure is one of the lowest in
the region, resulting in serious groundwater contamination.
Localized air pollution, uncontrolled solid waste dumps (which
contains hazardous wastes), and surface water contamination from
industrial effluents and untreated sewage, are also major areas of
concern. The country's continued environmental degradation is the
result of weak institutions, the lack of comprehensive strategies,
fragmented federal and subnational policies, and weak monitoring
and enforcement.
2.      Project Objectives. The main objectives of this pilot project
are to: (i) improve local environmental conditions by strengthening
institutional capacities to apply integrated pollution management
(IPM) techniques, in a few, highly selected municipalities located
in two provinces; and (ii) strengthen the capacity of the
SecretarUa de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo Sustentable (SRNyDS)
and the Environmental Policy Secretariat of the Province of Buenos
Aires (EPS/PBA) to develop, test and demonstrate innovative
pollution management instruments with subnational and private
stakeholders, and replicate lessons learned elsewhere in Argentina.
The main global environmental objective of the associated GEF
project is to ensure the sustainable management of the Patagonia
coastal zone through the prevention and mitigation of coastal



pollution and the sustainable use of fisheries and marine resources.
3.      Project Description. The Pollution Management Project would
have two components and an associated GEF Project. The two
components are: (i) Technical assistance (TA) to SRNyDS and EPS/PBA
to strengthen their capabilities to pilot, demonstrate and
replicate integrated pollution management instruments and
techniques; and (ii) TA and low-cost, priority investments to
address pollution problems in three pilot subprojects, as follows:
(a) urban industrial contamination in the municipalities of Campana
and Zarate (Buenos Aires Province); (b) air pollution in selected
municipalities in the Greater Buenos Aires area; and (c) municipal
pollution management in the municipality of Puerto Madryn (Chubut
Province). The project's implementation would have a Phase I which
will focus on TA for applying integrated pollution management
techniques, supported by some high priority, low-cost equipment and
facilities. About the end of Year 2, the project's Phase II to
finance investments would be triggered subject to a satisfactory
midterm review on the validity of the prior IPM process.
Associated GEF Project: The GEF Coastal Contamination Control
and Prevention Project would finance TA and investments in three
areas: (i) plans, institutional strengthening, equipment and
facilities to abate and prevent land-based and water-based
contamination; (ii) the development of an integrated fisheries
management program to prevent overfishing and protect the long-
term, harvest capacity of marine resources, focusing on regulatory,
enforcement and policy reforms particularly vis-a-vis private
operators; and (iii) the implementation of an electronic marine
information infrastructure system where justified, as a cost-
effective measure to implement the policy reforms related to
fisheries management and coastal contamination.
4.      Project Financing. The overall project cost is estimated at
about US$30 million, of which the Bank would finance US$18 million,
the Government (GOA) about US$2 million, the concerned provinces
and municipalities about US$1 million, bilateral cofinanciers
(Japan Exim Bank) US$4 million, and the GEF about US$5 million. GEF
would cofinance Component ii(c) of item 3. above (the Puerto Madryn
subproject), by providing a grant to cover the incremental costs
beyond those costs which if invested would yield only national
benefits. The cost estimate will be firmed up during appraisal.
5.      Project Implementation. The Ministry of Economy has assigned
the project preparation and execution responsibility to SRNyDS,
which will provide overall coordination of the integrated pollution
management process, aspects of the pilot projects that may be
related to national environmental policy, and financial issues
requiring decisions at the national level. SRNyDS will also be
responsible for managing directly the funds associated with the
technical assistance component. For the three pilot subprojects,
the EPS/PBA, municipality(ies), private companies, and NGOs
concerned, will directly execute their respective components and
manage the corresponding funds from the Japan PHRD Grant, the loan,
and the GEF grant funds during the preparation and implementation stages.
-2 -



6.      Project Sustainability. The integrated pollution management
process is designed to be a self-sustaining approach toward solving
priority pollution problems in a participatory manner. It provides
stakeholders with a framework in which pollution problems are
diagnosed and economic, technical, financial, and institutional
criteria are applied to determine options and select a least-cost
and financially-sustainable solution. Private financing prospects
and tariff issues will be studied in depth during project
preparation to promote financial sustainability of the investments.
7.      Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement. There has
been little formal evaluation of lessons learned from comparable
Bank-financed projects in Argentina, where there has been no
previous free-standing environmental project. However, drawing on
the experience from ongoing projects in the region's relatively
young environment portfolio and previous ESW, the main applicable
lessons are: (a) the coordination of environmental policies is weak
among the three Government levels in Argentina, as well as vis-a-
vis the private sector, and needs to be strengthened on the basis
of achieving better compliance with pollution control regulations;
(b) the weakness of environmental agencies (including SRNyDS) can
lead to significant delays unless the building of adequate capacity
is supported by the project; (c) public and private financing for
environmental investments has been successful in addressing
problems only where a clear strategy and location-specific
environmental targets were defined for such problems, and financial
support was linked to a very tight program of enforcement; and (d)
careful analysis of the impact of pollution and comparison of
different investment options is necessary to ensure the cost-
effectiveness of interventions. Taking these lessons into account,
the project would emphasize building linkages, strengthening multi-
party negotiations and conflict resolution mechanisms, and
sharpening the respective roles of the federal, provincial and
municipal stakeholders, while promoting the financing role of the
private sector. The project would also promote the application of
economic cost-effectiveness, technical, financial, institutional
and other key criteria to develop options and select a solution in
a participatory manner that reflects community commitment and
ownership. Finally, instead of prematurely launching an ambitious
national program, the project would focus on priority pollution
problems and involve a few, highly selected municipalities and
private participants in order to enhance prospects for successful
implementation. With respect to the GEF project, the technical
evaluation of the UNDP/GEF Phase I Project, entitled Patagonian
Coastal Zone Management Project, is still being carried out. Once
completed and reviewed, its agreed findings and recommendations
will be incorporated into the design of this proposed new GEF project.
8.      Poverty Category. Not applicable.
9.      Environmental Aspects. The environmental category is "B." The
project will achieve significant positive environmental impacts for
the population affected by pollution problems in the three pilot
areas. An environmental analysis will be carried out for
investments associated with the project (e.g., landfills) that
- 3 -



could have negative impacts, and mitigation measures will be built
into project design.
10.     Program Objective Category. Environmentally sustainable
development (EN).
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 30, 1997.
- 4 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
The project does not include any component with a significant
adverse environmental impact. The proposed project is comprised of
components designed to address specific priority problems in water
pollution, solid waste management, and urban air pollution. The
project is intended to introduce integrated pollution management in
Argentina and serve as a demonstration of cooperative inter-
governmental and private sector institutional arrangements. The
activities to be supported include technical assistance and
pollution management investments (e.g., disposal facilities for
municipal waste, water and air quality monitoring and testing
facilities) to address the priority pollution problems. In
supporting pollution management investments, the project is
expected to reduce pollution impacts although it may transfer
residual impacts from one media to another (e.g., from water to
soil) or, possibly create localized impacts (e.g., siting of new
municipal waste facility). The project will be designed to mitigate
these impacts by incorporating environmental assessment techniques
into investment planning. The air pollution component is not
conceived to introduce any additional environmental impacts because
it is concentrated on the planning and analytical stages of
pollution management. Implementation of the project would result in
a significant improvement in the management of these three
pollution sources.



