Page  1
CONFORMED COPY               
LOAN NUMBER 4281-AR
Loan Agreement
(Pollution Management Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 28 , 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4281-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 28, 1999, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
Page  2
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled." 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Environmental Management System" means that part of an organization’s 
management system that includes organizational structure, planning activities, 
responsibilities, practices, procedures, processes and resources for developing, 
implementing, achieving, reviewing and maintaining its Environmental Policy (as 
hereinafter defined);
(b)
"Environmental Policy" means a statement by an organization of its 
intentions and principles in relation to its overall environmental performance which 
provides a framework for action and for the setting of environmental objectives and 
targets;
(c)
"Gran Buenos Aires" means the area represented by the Selected 
Municipalities (as hereinafter defined);
(d)
"Grant Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.06 of this 
Agreement;
(e)
"Implementing Agencies" means the political and administrative 
subdivisions of the Borrower and any other entity with which SRNyDS (as hereinafter 
defined) enters into a Joint Implementation Agreement (as hereinafter defined) for the 
execution of any activities under the Project; 
(f)
"INA" means the Borrower’s Instituto Nacional del Agua y del Ambiente, a 
decentralized agency of SRNyDS (as hereinafter defined) established by Decree No. 
1403/96 dated December 3, 1996; 
(g)
"Joint Implementation Agreement" means any agreement or written 
administrative arrangement referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(h)
"Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators set forth in the letter of 
even date herewith from the Borrower to the Bank;
(i)
"Selected Municipalities" means the municipalities listed or referred to 
in Annex A to the letter of even date with this Agreement from the Borrower to the 
Bank; 
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"SRNyDS" means Secretaría de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo Sustentable, 
the Borrower’s Secretariat of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development; and
(l)
"UEP" means Unidad Ejecutora de Proyecto, the Project executing unit to 
be established in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.04 (a) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighteen 
million Dollars ($18,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(ii)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on April 15 
Page  4
and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SRNyDS with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, health, and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, through the UEP: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six  months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through SRNyDs, shall:
(a)
establish, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, a 
Project executing unit with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank 
and with professional staff, including one full-time coordinator, with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services, support staff 
and other resources required by the UEP to carry out its functions and to discharge 
its responsibilities in a timely and efficient manner.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower, through SRNyDS, shall enter into agreements or 
written administrative arrangements with Implementing Agencies for all Project 
activities the execution of which falls outside the jurisdiction of SRNyDS.  All said 
agreements or written administrative arrangements shall be on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank and shall include those set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement ("Joint Implementation Agreements");
(b)
The Borrower, through SRNyDS, shall carry out its obligations and 
exercise its rights under the Joint Implementation Agreements in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Project, and, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any of the Joint Implementation Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through SRNyDS, shall cause Part A.2 (b) of the 
Project to be carried out in accordance with an operational manual satisfactory to the 
Bank, said manual to include the provisions set forth or referred to in an annex to 
the letter of even date herewith from the Borrower to the Bank.
Section 3.07. Prior to carrying out the establishment of any pilot pollution 
prevention information center under Part A.2 (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall, 
through the UEP, furnish to the Bank a proposal for its approval, said proposal to 
include:
(a)
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan;
(b)
a feasibility study demonstrating the technical, financial and economic 
viability of such center and evaluating the possibility of establishing a cost 
recovery mechanism; and 
Page  5
(c)
evidence that the UEP has concluded its review process and has given its 
technical clearance to the proposal.  
Section 3.08. The Borrower, through SRNyDS, shall during the execution of the 
Project:
(a)
cause the UEP to maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objectives;
(b)
furnish to the Bank, not later than May 31 and November 30 of each year, 
a progress report on the execution of the Project during the previous six month 
period, said report to be of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request 
and to include the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section;
(c)
 furnish to the Bank, not later than one month before the mid-term review 
referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section, a report, of such scope and detail as 
the Bank may reasonably request, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project since its beginning, including the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of its objectives; and
(d)
carry out, jointly with the Bank, in the 24th month after the Effective 
Date or promptly after the Monitoring Indicators for mid-term inputs and outputs have 
been met, whichever is earlier, a mid-term review of the progress of the Project and 
the attainment of its objectives on the basis of the report referred to in paragraph 
(c) of this Section, and shall, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of its objectives, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
department or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any 
part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
Page  6
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the parties to any Joint 
Implementation Agreement has failed to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the UEP has been established in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.04 (a) of this Agreement; and
(b)
all action has been taken by the Borrower in order to permit the 
procurement of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in 
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date of April 28, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía
  y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Page  7
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Fernández
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
   to be
Category
   Dollars)
  Financed
(1)
Part A of the Project:
(a)
Consultants’ services
4,000,000
100%
(b)
Grants under 
Part A.2 (b) 
6,000,000
50% of amounts
disbursed
(2)
Part B of the Project:
(a)
Goods
  200,000
100% (net of taxes)
(b)
Consultants’ services
1,400,000
100%
(3)
Part C of the Project:
(a)
Goods:
(i)
for Part C.1
1,700,000
100% (net of taxes)
(ii)
for Part C.2
3,100,000
100% (net of taxes)
(b)
Consultants’ services:
(i)
for Parts C.1 and   400,000
100%
Page  8
C.3
(ii)
for Part C.2
  100,000
100%
(4)
Part D of the Project
(a)
Goods
  400,000
100% (net of taxes)
(b)
Consultants’ services
  700,000
100%
TOTAL
      18,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for:
(a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000, may be made on account 
of expenditures incurred before that date but not more than twelve months prior to the 
date of this Agreement;
(b)
any expenditure if financing for such expenditure is available to the 
Borrower or any Executing Agency under any other Bank loan;
(c)
any expenditure under Category 1 (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule until the Bank has approved the Grant Manual;
(d)
any expenditure under Categories 3 (a) (i) and 3 (b) (i) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule until SRNyDS has invited all official agencies with 
responsibility for air quality management in Gran Buenos Aires to join in an 
inter-jurisdictional consultative mechanism and such mechanism has been established; 
and
(e)
any expenditure under Categories 2 (a), 3 (a) and 4 (a) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank showing that said expenditure was incurred 
on a tax-free basis. 
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
for goods under contracts costing less than $350,000 equivalent (other 
than the first two such contracts costing less than $350,000 equivalent but more than 
$100,000 equivalent);
(b)
for works under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent; and 
(c)
for services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent and for services of individual consultants under contracts costing 
less than $40,000 equivalent; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the capacity of SRNyDS for: (a) 
adopting, piloting and demonstrating innovative pollution management instruments and 
initiatives; and (b) promoting the adoption of these instruments and initiatives by 
the political and administrative subdivisions of the Borrower and any entities owned 
or controlled by the Borrower or such subdivisions.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
Partnerships for Pollution Management 
1.
Strengthening of SRNyDS’s Role in Pollution Management
(a)
Execution of studies and carrying out of pilot projects to develop and 
test innovative pollution management approaches, instruments and financing options, 
Page  9
particularly those based on positive and market incentives and public-private 
partnerships.
(b)
Development and implementation of training activities to improve 
pollution management.
(c)
Coordination and supervision of, and provision of technical advisory 
services for, the carrying out of all Parts of the Project at the national, provincial 
and municipal levels. 
2.
Environmental Management Systems, Eco-efficient Practices and Environmental 
Certification Programs for Industry
(a)
Development and promotion by SRNyDS of: (i) Environmental Management 
Systems and environmental certification programs; (ii) ecologically efficient 
practices in industry; and (iii) establishment of international partnerships with 
foreign universities and research institutes with strong environmental programs.
(b) 
Establishment and execution of a grant program on a cost-sharing basis 
with private industry to promote Environmental Management Systems and the improvement 
of environmental performance.
(c)
Provision of technical advisory services on pollution prevention measures 
to sector-specific industries, such as leather tanning, food processing, tourism, 
machine and auto parts, and establishment on a pilot basis of pollution prevention 
information centers for such industries when their technical, financial and economic 
viability is established.
Part B:
Integrated Management of Environmental Quality at the Municipal Level
Execution of pilot activities for integrated management of environmental quality 
by the municipalities of Campana and Zárate, Province of Buenos Aires, including: 
1.
Improvement of municipal environmental management through, inter alia, the 
carrying out of environmental diagnoses, the execution of technical studies and 
implementation of their recommendations, the design and implementation of 
communications and training programs, and the equipping of  laboratory facilities for 
environmental quality control. 
2.
Integrated pollution management for local river basins through, inter alia, the 
execution of water quality baseline studies, modeling and monitoring, and the 
provision of specialized technical assistance for formalizing targets and compliance 
schedules and for monitoring compliance. 
3.
Support for industry-led initiatives in pollution management through, inter 
alia, the provision of a professional facilitator, the preparation and execution of 
training programs in Environmental Management Systems, and the provision of technical 
advisory services to small and medium scale enterprises in implementing and improving 
Environmental Management Systems.
Part C:
Air Quality Management in Gran Buenos Aires 
1.
Establishment and operation by INA of an air quality and noise monitoring 
network covering Gran Buenos Aires. 
2.
Establishment and operation by INA of a motor vehicle emissions certification 
laboratory and technical center, including modification of the existing plant. 
3.
Preparation and implementation of an air quality management plan for Gran Buenos 
Aires.
Part D:
Municipal and Regional Pollution Management 
1.
Municipality of Puerto Madryn, Province of Chubut
(a)
Provision of technical assistance with respect to improved pollution 
management by the Municipality of Puerto Madryn, Province of Chubut, including in 
particular: (i) preparation of an integrated environmental diagnosis of the 
municipality, with a focus on the priority solid waste problem, and development of an 
integrated solid waste management strategy; (ii) carrying out of an environmental 
impact assessment of any new solid waste landfill sites; (iii) analysis of the 
technical, economic and financing issues related to wastewater treatment facilities; 
Page  10
(iv) promotion of public participation and carrying out of social assessments; (v) 
provision of formal and informal environmental education; and (vi) strengthening of 
environmental monitoring and enforcement.
(b)
Acquisition and operation of specialized monitoring and testing 
equipment. 
2.
Patagonian Coastal Zone
Provision of technical assistance with respect to improved pollution management 
in selected coastal areas of Patagonia, including in particular: (a) the preparation 
of environmental diagnoses, with a focus on marine pollution issues; (b) 
identification of priority investment options and their environmental impacts and 
preparation of feasibility studies of least-cost solutions; (c) development and 
implementation of a public consultation process; and (d) promotion of regional 
approaches to pollution management.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
  Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due 
 (Expressed in Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2003
through April 15, 2013
900,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Page  11
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent but more than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 
equivalent,  may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph (a) above, standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank shall be 
used.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of 
part B of this Section; and (b) the first two contracts to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Page  12
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000, 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Commercial Practices
Services to assist Implementing Agencies in carrying out their respective Parts 
or Sub-Parts of the Project and estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent may be 
procured in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.10 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the terms of reference of the 
consulting firms shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.  With respect to all other 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants, the terms of reference of 
individual consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval. 
3.
Post Review
Page  13
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $1,800,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to $800,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed  $4,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
Page  14
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Joint Implementation Agreements
1.
All procurement of goods and all contracting of consultants’ services for the 
Project shall be carried out by the UEP.  The Borrower, through SRNyDS, shall transfer 
such goods and make available the consultants’ services to the Implementing Agencies 
free of charge, and the Implementing Agencies shall use such goods and consultants’ 
services exclusively for the purpose of the Project.
2.
The Implementing Agencies shall, mutatis mutandis, comply with the provisions of 
Sections 3.01 and 4.01 of the Loan Agreement  and shall, to the extent applicable to 
each Implementing Agency, assist the Borrower in discharging its obligations to the 
Bank under Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.05, 3.06, 3.07 and 4.01 of the Loan Agreement. 
3.
The Implementing Agencies shall carry out the obligations of the Borrower set 
forth in Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance 
and land acquisition, respectively) with respect to their respective Part or Parts of 
the Project. 
