D_cumont of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 5769
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE 11
(LOAN 1424-ZA)
June 25, 1985
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects Department
Southern Agriculture Division
agnm    _ a *mhoo  _iteui   mm   be _Wb relpo  ad in mec pslmo  of
tmree   dud   lb Po^  1-  llntsaw    e  lbdabgd witwt WeMd BP   _dwmi.



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
FAO        -      Food and Agriculture Organization
FD         -      Forest Department
FINNIDA    -      Finnish Development Agency
GRZ        -      Government of the Republic of Zambia
IFC        -      International Finance Corporation
INDECO     -      Industrial Development Corporation
IPD        -      Industrial Plantations Division
MILNR      -      Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
RMEA       -      Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
UNDP/SF    -      United Nations Development Program/Special Fund
ZAFFICO    -      Zambia Forestry and Forest Industries Corporation
.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE II (LOAN 1424-ZA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Prebface .......................... ...........................           _
Basic Data Sheet ................................                  .     ii
Highlights .          ,        .        .         ................ iii
I.    INTRODUCTION
Forestry Sub-Sector .         .............. .... ..... . .. .  .........  1
Forestry Policy ..................................               .         2
Institutions ...........................................                  2
Phase III .....       ........................................ .          3
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Identification and Preparation ..................                         3
Appraisal ....................................................            4
III. IMPLEMENTATION
Effectiveness and Start-Up ......          .................. .           6
Afforestation, Reafforestation and Maintenance   .........                6
Pruning and Thinning .......         ......................               7
Fire Protection ........................................                  8
Logging and Transportation  ......         ...................            9
Disbursement   ....................................... .                  9
Training        ...............................................          10
Cost      ...................................................            11
Saw Mill        ...............................................          11
Accounting, Auditing and Progress Reporting              ............    11
Procurement          ............................................        12
IV.  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION ...................    12
V.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT ....                ..........  13
VI.  CONCLUSIONS         ......................    ......................       14
Thi docunent ha a  icted distribution and may be ud b  recipients oil in tde perforumae
of their oficial du   Its comeumy not otherwi  be Amcknd wihout World Dak aut*om.



TABLES
1 - Achievement of Physical Targets
2 - Fire. Occurrence Damage 1978-1982
3 - Project Cost
4 - Schedule of Actual Disbursement
5 - Financial Rate of Return
6 - Economic Rate of Return
7 - Financial Rate of Return for Single Sawmill
8 - Adjusted Project Cost at 1982 Prices
ANNEX 1 - Borrower's Comments
MAP     - Project Location (IBRD No.  12526)



ZAMBIA - INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE II
(Loan 1424-ZA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is a project completion report (PCR) of the Industrial
Forestry Project Phase II in Zambia, for which Loan 1424-ZA was approved on
May 17, 1977 in the amount of US$16.8 million and closed March 2, 1984,
*          after cancellation of US$0.1 million.
The PCR was prepared by the East Africa Regional Office and based
on the appraisal Report (No. 1429-ZA) dated April 20, 1977, the President's
};e,ort (No. P-2012a-ZA) dated April 29, 1977, the Loan Agreement, project
files and data gathered during the aDpraisal of the follow-on Phase III
Project.
The project was not selected for audit by OED as it is the second
of a series of forestry projects, similar in nature, in Zambia. The first
project (Loan 562-ZA) was completed in 1975, audited by OED in 1977, and
generally considered to be successful.
The PCR was sent to the Borrower for comment on April 16, 1985.
Comments received from Zambia Forestry and Forest Industries Corporation
(ZAFFICO) have been taken into account in the final report, and are
attached as Annex 1.
The assistance provided by the Government of Zambia and the staff
of the project executing agencies is gratefully acknowledged.



- ii -
ZAMBIA
Industrial Forestry Project Phane II (Ln 1424-ZA)
Project Completion Report
Basic Data Sheet
Key Project Data
Appraisal        Actual or       Actual -  Z of
Expectation   Current Estimate   Expectation
Total Prolect Cost (U5$ million)                     34.5             40.5          117
Underrun or Overrun (2)
Loan/Credit Amount (US$ million)                                      16.8          --
Disbursed                                         16.8             16.7           99.4
Cancelled                                        -                   .1          --
Repaid to [BRD                                                      2.7 IJ       -
Cutstanding to IBRD                                                14.0 T/
Date Physical Components Completed               Dec. 82          Dec. 83
Proportion Completed by Above Date (Z)              100               85
Proportion of Time Underrun cr Overrun (2)           -                20
Economic Rate of Return (Z)                          20               IS
Financial Performance                             Fair                Poor
Instituttonal Performance                         Fair                Poor
Other Project Data
2,             2/
Orij4 aal Plan     Revisionu    Actual or Eat. Act.
First Mention in Files or Timetable                 --                -         01/05/73
Government's Application                             -                -
Negotiatlons                                                          -         04/06/77
Board Approval                                       ---                        05/17/77
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                                            -         06/08/77
Effectiveness Date                                                    -          11/15/77
Closing Date                                         --               -         02/03/84
Borrower                                             The Republic of Zambia
Executing Agency                                     Industrial Plant. Division
Fiscal Year of Borrower                              January 1 - December 31
Follow-up Project Nase                               Industrial Forestry Project Phase III
Loan/Credit Number                                Cr. 1437
mount (USS million)                                22.4
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                         3/16/8b
Mission Data
Mission Data                      No. of3t No. of
Sent by        Month/Yr    Weeks   Persons   Manweeks 4/ Date of Report
Identification      FAO/CP           1/73                   2
Preparation         FAO/CP           -            --        --         --
Preappraisal        IBRD)                                              38
Appraisal           IBRD)             7/76       17         4          68           4/77
Total                                                              106
Supervision   I    IBRD/CDC          11/77         2        3           6          12/77
Supervision  11    IBRD/CDC          8/78         2         3           6           9/78
Supervision III    IBRD               3/79         2        1           Z           5/79
Supervision  IV    IBRD              2/80         3         3           9           3/80
Supervision   V    IBRD/C0C         IZ/80         4         3          12           2/81
Supervision  VI    IBRD              4/81         3         1           3           5/81
Supervision VII    [BRD               1/82        3         3           9           3/82
Supervision VIII   IBRD              8/82         2         2           6           9/82
Supervision  IX    IBRD              8/83          1        1           2           9/83
Total                                         22                    55
Country Exchange Rates
?nme of Currency (Abbreviation)                      Zanbia Kwacha (ZK)
Year:  Appraisal Year Average                        Exchange Rate: USSI - KOC80
Intervening Years Average                                    USSI - KD.88
Completion Year Average                                      USSI - K1.23
1/ As of December 84.
2/ No information available.
7/ No. of 5 day week shown in the mission report plus travel time, except in the case of
appraisal where elapsed time is shown.
4/ No. of weeks timen No. of persons.



- iii -
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT PEASE II
(Loan 1424-ZA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
The project's main components were the planting of 15,000 ha of
pine and 2,500 ha of eucalyptus, replanting of 2,000 ha of eucalyptus;
maintenance of the new and existing plantations established under the
previous-phase; doubling of logging and transportation capacity from 60,000
m3 per year; construction of a sawmill of about 40,000 m3 per year sawn
wood capacity; staff training; and experimentation and research aimed at
reducing land clearing costs by developing efficient charcoal production
methods.
The major part of the project was the afforestation component,
the appraisal targets for which were exceeded. However, on the institu-
tional and managerial aspects, the project had not been able to reach the
expected maturity. As a result, the staffing, training and general produc-
tivity of the project were affected. Institutionally, the most significant
problem was the four-year delay in incorporating the project's Implementing
agency, the Industrial Plantations Division (IPD), into a commercial
entity. This compelled IPD to continue to function within the restrictive
civil service rules.
In addition to the institutional problem, the project seems to
have suffered from a design shortcoming, in that Phase II had not given
sufficient consideration to all the operations of IPD and thereby not
encouraging evaluation of IPD as a total organization during supervision/
implementation. Since the industrial operations of IPD other than the
proposed sawmill were not included, no proper evaluation or follow-up of
the training needs or its engineering efficiency was carried out during
supervision.
There was about a 17Z overrun on the cost of the Project. The
afforestation costs turned out to be higher than the appraisal estimates
owing to escalated land clearing costs and higher costs of labor arising
mainly from a general salary increase. The construction of the sawmill was
also delayed by four years resulting not only in inflated costs but also in
lost revenue.  The higher costs were not fully offset by the higher prices
that IPD charged for its products. Additionally, the Project was affected
adversely by the worsening economic conditions (e.g. financial and foreign
exchange crisis) that GRZ faced during the last three years of the
Project. The economic rate of return of the project is now estimated to be
15% as against 20% at appraisal.



- iv -
Over 99% of the loan was disbursed, and the Project exceeded its
targets in the afforestation component. The general progress of the
Project was considered reasonable, and it formed the framework for
involvement by the Bank/IDA in a further phase. On balance the project is
considered to have been reasonably successful.
The following points are of particular interest:
-    although the funds were fully utilized for the training
component, the program as carried out was not satisfactory; a
proper assessment involving a systematic analysis of the Skill
gaps was not carried out as expected by the Bank In the early
years of the Project (paras. 3.15-3.18); and
-    IPD's staffing problems were partly due to civil service rules to
which it was subject and partly to lack of management action
(paras. 5.01-5.04); almost all of the staff are civil servants
with little experience in private sector operations (para. 6.08).



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE II (LOAN 1424-ZA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This project is a follow-up to the Industrial Forestry Project
Phase I (Loan 562-ZA) which was the Bank's first involvement in the
long-term industrial forestry program of Zambia. Phase I was coTpleted in
1975 and was generally considered to be a successful project. Phase II was
approved by the Board in May 1977 and the loan was closed in February 1Q84
after disbursing over 99% of the loan. A third phase project was approved
by the Board in February 1984. This PCR is based on material gathered
during appraisal of Phase III and on information obtained from the Bank's
files and updates received from the Borrower.
Forestry Subsector
1.02      The forestry resources in Zambia consist of natural (indigenous)
forests and man made plantation forests. About 370,000 km2 or nearly half
of the total land area of Zambia are covered by two main types of natural
forests, firstly the closed forests, typified by the Zambia teak forests
situated in the Southern and Western parts of the country and secondly open
woodlands of which the miombo' woodlands are the most extensive. Only
slightly more than 7 million ha of a total of 37 million ha of indigenous
forests are gazetted and nominally under the protection of the Forest
Department (FD). About 70Z of the gazetted forests have some management
including concessions for felling of timber or firewood. However, the
Government -.as very little control over these areas because of chronic
=arrpower a.d budget co.s:raints.  The average yield of commercial sawiogs
in these forests varies between 5 and 13 m3/ha and about 50 m3/ha of poles
and firewood.
1.03      The indigenous forests are a declining resource and are slow to
regenerate. In the easily accessible areas, mainly close to cities and
along the line-of-rail, they have been exploited for a long time and are
now virtually depleted. Increasing transport distances and lower yields
would make it difficult to exploit the remaining forests economically in
the future. On average, the indigenous forests take about 50 to 60 years
to produce sufficient sawlogs with appropriate diameters, while eucalyptus
would provide similar dimensions in about 12 years and pine in 25 years.
1.04      To solve the problems of long gestation periods and difficult
commercial exploitation associated with the indigenous species, the
Government decided to embark on a long-term industrial forestry program.
The FD started growing pines on the Copperbelt, at first on an experimental
scale near Ndola, and then on an increasingly larger scale around Ndola and
west of Kitwe. To implement this program, an Industrial Plantations
Division of the FD was created in 1962.



1.05      A Bank loan of US$5.3 million was provided to finance a first
phase (Loan 562-ZA) of the long-term afforestation program. The first
phase was completed by 1975 but at a cost over the estimated amount owing
mainly to inflation, and its target of 16000 ha was reached in seven years
as against eight as envisaged at appraisal. The actual exploitation of
wood in Zambia continued to be only a small fraction of the potential, due
to ineffective utilization of the wood processing capacity. The Phase II
project was designed to continue the government's long-term planting and
maintenance program, expand longing and sawmilling capacity and conduct
studies designed to lead to economical and efficient land clearing and
charcoal production.
1.06      By the end of Phase II about 36,000 ha of pine and 7,500 ha of
eucalyptus plantations had been established in the Copperbelt in the four
major plantation areas at Ndola, Chati, Lamba and Ichimpe. The main
species are Pinus kesiya, Pinus oocarpa, Eucalyptus grandis and Eucalyptus
cloeziana. The age structure of these plantations mainly reflects IPD's
plantation program followed in the last five years, during which period
about 50% of total plantations were established. Their annual roundwood
production potential (sustained yield) is currently estimated at 200,000 m3
of pine and eucalyptus sawlogs, with another 120,000 m3 in small logs.
Forestry Policy
1.07      The Government's major policy objectives for the forestry
sub-sector are: (i) conservation of indigenous forests through conventional
measures (e.g., forest protection and controlled exploitation), and (ii)
protection of forest reserves in the water shed or river flow areas against
soil erosion and river silting; and (iii) promotion of a viable forestry
sub-sector through appropriate research, extension, reafforestation and
wood processing programs.
Institutions
1.08      Responsibility for forestry policy, management, extension,
research and training rests with the Forest Department, which is part of
the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources (MLNR).  The Department is
headed by the Chief Conservator of Forests, and comprises two main divi-
sions, one for field staff and the other for specialists.  The Industrial
Plantations Division (IPD), which is now incorporated as Zambia Forestry
and Forest Industries Corporation (ZAFFICO), was originally a branch of the
Forest Department. IPD was responsible for implementing both Phases I and
II. FD's responsibility for management includes the management of the
gazetted forest estate, and control of the processing of wood products from
gazetted forests for domestic and industrial use. Its extension and
publicity work includes advisory services to private woodlot owners and the
maintenance of a network of nurseries. Forestry research consists of (a)
forest research on indigenous and exotic species; and (b) forest products
research including charcoal kiln testing and timber preservation, seasoning
and structure testing. The training function of the FD includes the
training of Forest Rangers and Foresters in lower and higher level courses
respectively at the Zambia Forest College at Mwekere near Kitwe. There are
no facilities in the country for graduate training for forestry profes-
sionals. Short-term training on-a number of technical subjects is provided
by a Forest Workers Training Center at Chati, owned by IPD.



1.09      During the Phase I project it became clear that a properly coor-
dinated approach towards forestry and forest industries was vital for the
rational development of the sector. The ensuing discussions between GRZ,
FD and Industrial Development Corporation (INDECO) were aimed at accom-
plishing this objective. Previously, statutory responsibility for planta-
tions rested with the FD, but INDECO under the Ministry of Mines and Power
had responsibility for exploitation of forests for industrial use. In 1976
INDECO became answerable to MLNR for its subsidiaries' dealing in importa-
tion and processing of sawn wood and other wood products. This arrangement
was a major step towards establishing a coordinated approach toward
forestry and it brought under MLNR all of the forestry related activities
except the construction of a pulp and paper mill, the responsibility for
which was to continue with INDECO.
Phase III
1.10      The Phase III Project (Cr. 1437-ZA) was presented to the Board in
February 19B4 and was made effective in Septemher 1984. The Project is
estimated to cost USS42.5 million with IDA providing financing up to
US$22.4. The Project has been designed: (a) to improve the utilization of
existing forestry investments in plantations and handling and processing
facilities, with a view to increasing production and improving the quality
of ZAFFICO's wood products and product mix to meet revealed market prefer-
ences and to reduce imports; (b) to improve and strengthen linkages between
investments in forestry resources and wood-based industries; and (c) to
strengthen the management and improve operational efficiency of ZAFFICO as
a whole, with special reference to its operations in logging, sawmills and
supporting services. These Project's objectives are consistent with the
Government's sectoral objectives as well as its overall long-term policy
objectives of economic growth and diversification. In particular the
Project would address the training requirements of ZAFFICO staff consisting
of in-service, long-term and on-the-joh training involving about 900
project related personnel, improvements in logging and transportation, fire
protection and Management Information Systems.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Identification and Preparation
2.01      Towards the latter part of the Phase I project several discus-
sions were held between GRZ and the Bank on the possibility of a Phase II
project.  It was clear at this time that the Bank's involvement was
conditional upon GRZ accepting a coordinated approach towards the develop-
ment of forests and forestry industries. Several studies were conducted by
GRZ under the UNDP/SF Forest Industries Feasibility Study project which was
executed by FAO. Within the frame work of this project, FAO engaged the
services of Sandwell & Co (consultants) to determine the economic and
technical feasibility of establishing units of appropriate type and size
for the manufacture of sawnwood, wood panel products, and pulp and paper.
Sandwell's reports on the feasibility of wood products and pulp and paper
were issued in 1971. In 1974 with encouragement from the Bank and finan-
cial assistance from Finland, GRZ employed Jaako Poyry (JP) a firm of
consultants to carry out another set of forest industries pre-investment



- 4 -
and market studies. This set of studies which updated most of the Sandwell
and FAO data, recommended the establishment of the following plants: an
unbleached pulp and paper mill of 55,000 TPA capacity by 1979-80, a parti-
cle board mill of 15,000 m3 p.a. capacity by 1977-78, a new sawmill of
20,000 m3 per annum capacity by 1983-85. However, further details as to
the feasibility of individual projects was required before a determination
could be made as to the size, species composition and phasing of a future
industrial plantation program. For instance Eucalyptus grandis (EG), which
was grown at an early stage of the plantation program and whfch was going
to be available in large quantities, was expensive to saw, its waste factor
was high and contrary to previous expectations the mines were reluctant to
use EG for pit props, yet these were considered suitable for pulp and paper
and particle board. Eucalyptus cloeziana on the other hand was considered
better for the mines but not so suitable for pulp and paper. Decisions on
these matters had a two way linkage on the existing and the planned planta-
tion program and had to be considered before the Bank could set out to
finance a Phase II.
2.02      The main parties to the continuing discussions on the project
were INDECO, FD, MLNR, Ministry of Finance, Bank staff from Eastern Africa
Projects and Programs Departments, Industrial Projects Department and staff
from IFC. Since these parties represented different interests and special-
ization it was difficult to focus on the issues leading up to a coherent
project proposal resulting in prolonged discussions during the preparation.
The construction of a pulp and paper mill was the main preoccupation of
INDECO and was in the forefront of all discussions. Based on the informa-
tion available the Bank's view at this stage was that the pulp and paper
mill would not be technically and economically viable owing to the market
situation and therefore should be postponed. The question still had to be
settled, as to whether in the face of uncertain prospects for increased
wood utilization what components a Phase !I operation should include. The
Bank believed mistakenly that the Government agreed with its proposal to
postponing the pulp and papermill, but later discovered that INDECO was
persistent in its desire to have the mill built early. The Bank then
reassessed the market conditions and with advice of consultants agreed that
a pulp and paper mill would be feasible for Zambia in 1982/83. However, the
issues to be resolved prior to any investment in the pulp and paper project
were the verification of the market size and the securing of a technical
and a financial partner. At this time there appeared to exist a general
consensus between the Bank and other institutions involved that the pulp
and Paper mill could in fact be slipped until its feasibility could be
clearly established. With these developments the Bank was ready for the
appraisal of a Phase II project.
Appraisal
2.03      Despite prolonged discussions on the various aspects of the
forest industry there was no specific project proposal available, but
instead there existed bnly a collection of technical and market studies and
feasibility reports. The Bank decided to send a mission to pre appraise or
appraise a second phase project depending on the information available. All
feasible configurations involving increased sawmilling and logging capa-
city, particle board mill, the extension of industrial plantations and the
growing of firewood were to be considered during the pre-appraisal



- 5 -
appraisal. The mission, comprising two Bank staff and two consultants
arrived in Zambia June 1976 and was presented with a comprehensive shopping
list of all connected forestry activities that GRZ wanted financed. After
its field work the mission selected the following activities to recommend
to the Bank's management for funding over a five year period, (1) annual
planting of 4,000 ha; (2) doubling the logging capacity to 120,000 m3; (3)
new sawmill with a 20,000 m3/yr sawnwood capacity; (4) fiber board mill;
(5) charcoal production by FD; (6) study on the technical and economic
feasibility of wafer board production; and (7) fellowships and training.
2.04      During the review process it was suggested that the Bank was not
ready to participate in a pulp and paper venture until further studies
relating to its market potential were carried out. Thus the plantation
proposed in Phase II hau to be economically justified with or without the
pulp and paper mill. Further analysis was carried out and this confirmed
that an economic rate of return of not less than 10% could be realized by
the project based on sawmilling only and without the pulp and paper mill.
2.05      After further discussion within the Bank, a Phase II Project was
designed to finance:
(a) about 3,500 ha of new plantations annually, of which about 3,060
ha would be pine and about 500 ha Eucalyptus (totals for the
Project period: Pine 15,000 ha; Eucalyptus 2,5U0 ha);
(b) replanting annually approximately 400 ha of clearfelled planta-
tions with Eucalyptus (total for the Project period: 2,000 ha):
(c) maintenance of (a) and (b), together with all existing IPD plan-
tations;
(d)  doubling of IPD's logging and transportation capacity from about
60,000 m3 to about 120,000 m3 roundwood per year;
(e)  construction and equipment of a sawmill of about 40,000 m3 a year
sawnwood capacity;
(f) staff training and fellowships to facilitate (a) to (e) above;
and
(g) research, experimentation and studies designed to improve land
clearing, and charcoal production methods.
2.06      The total cost of the project was estimated to be K27.5 million
with financing to be provided from the following sources, Bank (49%)
Commonwealth Development Corporation (18Z) and Government (33%).
III. IMPLEMENTATION
3.01      The implementation of this phase was generally successful, with
respect to the forest plantation establishment program, for which most of
the appraisal targets for nursery production, land preparation and planting
were surpassed. The maintenance of forest plantation, however, remained



far below appraisal targets, while only 707 of the established logging and
transportation capacity was achieved during the project period. The slip-
page in the construction and operation of the new saw mill and the incorpo-
ration of IPD into a commercial entity adversely affected the project
financiallv and organizationally. The limited success of some of these
activities is traceable to a combination of staffing, funding and institu-
tional drawbacks experienced during the implementation of the project.
Effectiveness and Start-up
3.02      The date of effectiveness specified in the Loan Agreement was
September 8, 1977, suhject to the additional condition that GRZ and IPD
enter into an arrangement to make the proceeds of the loan available to
IPD. These arrangements were formalized in a subsidiary loan agreement
between GRZ and IPD on November 10, 1977. The agreement provided that
adequate budgetary allocations he made annually from 1978 to 1982 for IPD's
programs. However, except for the first two years there were no adequate
budgetary allocations made to the project. The Loan was declared effective
on November 15, 1977, two months after the specified date.
3.03      A two-year gap between the first and second phase projects had
already left several IPD operations with insufficient budgetary support
from GRZ. The gap resulted from the early conclusion of the Phase I
project, having achieved its planting targets one year ahead of schedule
and the slippage in the start of the Phase II. The negative impact of the
time gap between the two phases on funding made it difficult to continue
the recommended silvicultural practices during the early stages of Phase
II. The constraints on funding further weakened the equipment maintenance
program which was already poorly managed. A lesson to be learned is that
preparation of Phase II projects and assurance of timely appraisal are key
areas in which the Banks own performance could be improved.
3.04      The Project's staffing position was poor with key senior manage-
ment positions remaining unfilled, some for periods of over one year. Most
of the other key positions were occupied by expatriates whose contracts
were about to expire. There was an immediate need to fill these vacancies
early so as not to interrupt the ongoing activities of IPD, but it was
difficult to fill these vacant posts and as a result staffing continued to
be one of the major problems throughout the project. Both the Bank and IPD
believed that the transformation of IPD into a fully commercial entity
would resolve most of its staffing, financial and management problems but
such a transformation did not take place till 4 years later.
Afforestation, Reafforestation and Maintenance
3.05      The project's annual target for new planting were 3,500 ha, of
which 3000 ha were to be pine and about 500 ha eucalyptus. An additional
2,000 ha of clearfelled area was to be replanted with eucalyptus during the
project period bringing the total to 19,500 ha. As part of afforestation,
other activities, including land clearing, seedling production, planting,
weeding, pruning and thinning were csrried out by the project.
3.06      Land clearing - During appraisal, it was found that landclearing
by IPD was done mainly through contractors, who were both expensive and
unreliable. Provision was therefore made in the project that IPD would



(1) equip the landclearing unit so that it would take over all the land-
clearing operations (2) commence a trial charcoal production program to
find a means of mitigating the cost of landclearing as well as furthering
the development of improved charcoal production. Landclearing was slow but
did not affect the planting program. IPD was able to equip it second
landclearing unit and operate independently of the contractors only by the
fourth year of the project. The charcoal trials, which were provided in
order to absorb the rising land clearing costs, were not carried out till
the final year of the project, mainly owing to delays in selecting the
right type of kiln followed by procurement problems. The cost per hectare
for land-clearing which was estimated at the time of appraisal to be about
K200 rose to K540 by 1982. Ironically, the equipment that the project
owned by the end of the project period gave it a much greater capacity than
it was going to need in Phase III, because the demand and utilization
studies carried out had indicated only a modest planting program.
3.07      Seedling Production Program proceeded without major problems and
it was able to supply all of the requirements of the planting program.
Nursery costs however increased during the project from about K10 per
thousand to K25 per thousand seedlings owing to increased labor costs.
3.08      Weeding - As a result of a shortage of equipment and spare parts
before the project, the weeding program was in arrears from the start. The
supervision missions had estimated that the overall progress during the
early years averaged around 28Z of the required weeding of newly planted
areas. Early supervision missions repeatedly drew the attention of IPD to
the potential for fire hazards resulting from the unsatisfactory weeding
program. The then Director of IPD in his comments on the PCR agrees that
there was a reduction in weeding intensity at the beginning of the project,
but feels that tha avera!a weeding in the first two years was around 70Z.
He maintains that the area which were subject to fire hazards were given
special attention (Annex 1). By 1979 weeding was more or less on schedule
although there was more mechanical and less manual weeding than estimated
at appraisal. On balance, the weeding program had been carried out
reasonably well.
Pruning and Thinning
3.09      Again owing to the prevailing budgetary constraints, both these
operations were considerably behind schedule early in the project period.
The backlog on pruning was cleared as the seasons progressed, but thinning
continued to be behind schedule. Although lack of equipment had been one
of the causes for slow progress in thinning, the lack of incentive to thin
pine, especially the first thinnings, caused a further delay, particularly
since a high percentage of the produce from the first thinning was unsale-
able. The supervision mission of October 1981 recommended a revision in
the thinning progran when it discovered that the thinning based on volume
per acre rather than on basal area was too high, making it doubtful that
the final yields given in the appraisal could be achieved. The mission
suggested that thinning intensity and frequency based on basal area would
be preferable since the growth potential of a stand is easier to monitor
with the basal area method. IPD agreed to these suggestions. The former
IPD management have stated in their comments that it is now expected that



parts of the plantation will be managed for specific end uses, e.g., some
of the unthinned areas may be turned into pulpwood areas and others that
are younger be managed for sawnlogs.
Fire Protection
3.10      The project was expected to carry out the main fire protection
measures, namely, controlled burning of fiiebreaks, building of 15m wide
external firebreaks, maintaining of all firefighting vehicles, equipment
and fire towers and manning the fire crews. These were not very well
carried out and the Phase II project experienced a high incidence of fires
(Table 5) owing to (a) irregular control burning which frequently got out
of hand because of strong winds, dry weather and too much burning material
on the ground, (b) inadequate maintenance of fire breaks, (c) inadequate
equipment, (d) poor organization of fire prevention and firefighting. The
appraisal mission estimated that 17,000 ha (half the average size of the
plantation) would be subject to control burning annually, making a total of
85000 ha during the period of the Project. The actual area subject to
control burning during this period was only 32,313 ha. Project management
maintained that some areas did not require control burning because they
were situated too far away from the settlement. Therefore, some judgement
was made as to which were the priority areas. Ironically many of the fires
were started owing to badly supervised controlled burning. These preven-
tive measures were not very well understood by those involved in fire
control. On those occasions when control burning had led to serious fires
it was discovered that staff had not paid attention to the elementary steps
that were needed to be taken in these exercises. The equipment and the
crews had not been properly organized to meet such situations arising out
of control burning. On the maintenance question, the shortage of equipment
was one of the major reasons for the project's inability to carry out
preventive measures, like grading of firebreaks and weeding. During the
project period, the establishment and maintenance of firebreaks represented
only about 20% of appraisal targets. Apart from the preventive aspects of
fire protection, IPD's ability to deal with the suppression of fires was
also weak. Inspite of the project providing financing for the firefighting
equipment the delays in procurement turned out to be very costly for the
project which had to face several fires without such equipment. During the
project period there had been nearly 300 fires affecting about 6000 ha and
completely destroying about 1300 ha with an estimated loss of about KO.5
million. Phase III has provided for measures to improve fire protection by
establishing new external fire breaks, maintaining existing ones, con-
structing a fire tower and providing additional equipment. The lesson from
Phase II is that in addition to providing the hardware and designing a
program of fire protection and control, close monitoring of the preventive
and maintenance program by top management should be made a priority and the
Bank should take stronger action to ensure that forestry protection
measures are enforced in a timely manner. The former IPD management in its
comments had stated that in analysing the causes of fires they found that
those arising out of control burning were few.  nowever, steps have now
be?n taken to deal with the major causes by instituting a disciplinary
mechanism and holding the relavent staff more accountable for such
occurences.



-9-
Logging and Transportation
3.11      The project did not propose any substantial modification of the
IPD's existing logging methods but instead aimed at a reinforcement of its
capacity through replacement of worn-out equipment and provision of
additional equipment and labor to enable the logging section to handle
120,000 m3 instead of the existing 60,000 m3.
3.12      At the start of the project, all the lorries in the logging
section were over five years old, many of them in need of constant repair,
making the saw log supply to the mills erratic. The lorries obtained under
Finnish aid during the second year of the project helped remedy this situa-
tion until the logging and transport equipment financed by the Project
arrived. The project financed equipment was held up owing to procurement
delays. The situation was compounded by weak management. Felling and
logging were nct properly coordinated and the log and lumber yards iere
poorly organized. Inadequate supervision and poor record keeping has
worsened the problem in the logging section and prevented IPD from fully
understanding the problem and finding a suitable solution. There were
major discrepancies in the volumes felled and transported. The January
1982 mission stated that in 1980, according to IPD data, out of 133000 m3
felled only 87000 m3 were logged to the next road and of these only 68000
m3 were transported to the mills. Even with allowances for normal
harvesting losses (15X) and the small diameter logs from thinning, left in
the forest (20%) the volume transported to the mills was still around 75%
of the net logged wood. Such discrepancies occurred during the entire
project. No satisfactory explanation has been given by IPD management for
these gaps. Training of the staff engaged in logging operations had not
been carried out in a systematic manner, the training courses held at the
Chati Workers Training Center, which were attended by IPD staff engaged in
logging had not proved to be of much benefit. The daily productivity of
those engaged in logging has decreased during the project period. The rate
of extracted wood per machine per day had dropped from 20 m3(r) in 1975 to
12.2 m3(r) by 1982 a decline of about 40% in productivity. The corres-
ponding figures on productivity for a manday are7.5 m3(r) in 1975 and 5
m3(r) in 1982, which is an overall decline of about 30%.
3.13      The lesson to be derived from the experience of Phase II is that,
since no plausible explanation could be offered by IPD on the logging
discrepancies, the Bank should have taken a far more serious view of the
lack of accountability. At the earliest opportunity during Phase III, the
Bank should request the auditors to study and comment on this problems as a
matter of urgency and recommend corrective action including a system of
record keeping.for logging and transportation.
Disbursement
3.14      This project was disbursed from RNEA.  The rate of disbursements
were slow for the first year but from the latter half of the second year
remained at about 90% of the estimated level (Table 4). At the very early
stages, IPD staff were unfamiliar with both the procurement and disburse-
ment procedures of the Bank, as a result, considerable time was spent in
familiarizing them on the procedures and documentation necessary for
procurement. This was provided during early missions by disbursement staff
from RMEA. The arrangement of disbursing from RMEA proceeded reasonably



- 10 -
well, but due to the separate geographical location of project staff and
disbursement staff communication on disbursement matters was problematic on
occasions. In the case of the saw mill tender, an advance was paid to the
supplier based on the telex sent to IPD by the Washington Office approving
their rece-mendation to award the bid.  This was not an approval of the
contract but of the recommendation, and at this time the Bank had not
received a copy of the final contract.  The Loan Agreement Schedule 4(d)
specified that before delivery to the Bank of the first withdrawal applica-
tion two conformed copies of the contract should be furnished. Adherence
to these requirements was not verified at the time the advance was paid.
This payment however did not present a major problem but demonstrated the
possibility of misunderstandings when staff work from two locations. On
the whole disbursements were carried out well, and the present staff of
ZAFFICO appear to be familiar with the Bank's procedures relating to
disbursements.
Training
3.15      The main objective of the training component of the project was
to train Zambians to replace expatriate staff who were on short-term
contracts and holding positions in the accounting marketing, engineering,
logging, sawmilling and marketing sections. During the appraisal of the
project an assessment of the staffing requirement and the related training
needs were broadly identified. However, Project financed training formed
only a part of the total project related training the balance of the
training being left to the sponsorship of the ongoing bilateral assis-
tance. The amount provided under the project was US$130,000.
3.16      The other sponsors for training, besides the Bank and GRZ, were
the British Overseas Technical Assistance and FINNIDA. Under British
sponsorship one IPD candidate attended a course in Project Planning at the
Bradford University, two candidates attended the Planning and Management
course at tlle University of Oxford and two for the Higher National Diploma
in Engineering and for the Agricultural Mechanics course in the UK. The
Bradford and Oxford University course participants were already in mana-
gerial positions as acting Marketing .lanager, and as Conservators. Under
FINNIDA sponsorship, foresters were crained in sawmilling. The Government
sponsored training -was mainly carried out at the Chati Workers Training
Center.
3.17      According to project staff, the candidates under training
financed by project funds are as follows: one at the Oklahoma State
University, two in the UK following a course for the diploma in Marketing,
and six students who followed the BSc course in Forestry at the University
of Da-r es Salaam Facility of Agriculture and Forestry in Morogoro. IPD
continued to have difficulties in carrying out training in the non forestry
fields such as engineering, accountancy and technical skills. Firstly,
being a part of the civil service, IPD was constrained by its rules to
recruit candidates directly for overseas training in accountancy and
engineering. Even when permission was obtained from the Government after
lengthy procedures, IPD was unable to recruit suitable candidates.
Secondly, on the job training for skilled work was overlooked in the design
of the component. The project related training in Phase II was therefore
constrained by both institutional and design drawbacks. Phase III examined
this component critically.



- 11 -
3.18      Although the early supervision missions discovered shortcomings
in the training program there is no evidence that the Bank took serious
issue with IPD on the continuing poor staffing and training situation.
Schedule 2 part H of the Loan Agreement specified that IPD carry out a
training program satisfactory to the Bank. Although the funds were fully
utilized under this component the program as carried out was not satisfac-
tory as evidenced by the shortage of skilled personnel and the drop in
productivity of the general labor force. In retrospect it appears that the
Bank should have strongly urged that a proper assessment involving a syste-
matic a- lysis of the skill gaps be carried out in the early years of the
Project.
Cost
3.19      The actual project expenditures amounted to K34 million as
against an appraisal estimate of K27.5 million. A significant overrun ir.
the costs were recorded in the Plantation component, due to volume and
price variations. Land clearing costs continued to rise during this
period, the trial charcoal production program, which was intended to absorb
some of the rising costs of land clearing, failed to yield any benefit
owing to its delayed installation. The delay in installing the sawmill
also resulted in having to incur higher than estimated costs. A further
factor in the general rise in expenditure was the higher labor costs caused
by a wage increase granted in 1981 for government employees.
Saw Kill
3.20      The project included the construction and operation of a saw mill
designed to produce 20000 i3 of sawnwood annually on a single or 40000 m3
on a double shift basis. she sawmill was installed only in the fourth year
of the project, instead of the first year as proposed during appraisal, due
to procurement delays. The site for the sawmill was changed from Chati to
Kalibu, the future location of a pulp and board mill. After its installa-
tion it became apparent that the saw mill package, as included in the
project, did not adequately provide for all of its needed handling facili-
ties, its complete electricity and water supply requirements, timber
sorting and chipping sheds, fuel conveyor systems and waste disposal slabs
and office buildings. It is now thought to be impossible to achieve the
target production of 20000 m3 without rectifying these deficiencies. These
have now been included in the financing of Phase III at a cost of about
K0.6 million.
Accounting Auditing and Progress Reporting
3.21      The Project had a consistently good record of producing timely
financial statements and submitting audited accounts. Progress reporting
too was generally satisfactory. The reporting format was changed once by
the January 82 supervision mission to enlarge the scope of the report, IPD
responded well to the format and continued its timely reporting.
3.22      The accounting systems are satisfactory in design and mainte-
nance, with some exceptions noted by the auditors. These related to stock
control, timber work in progress, and strengthening of internal control.
The recommendations made by the auditors on the above matters were accepted
by management. The accounts section functioned without a Financial



- 12 -
Controller for over a year until the projects senior accountant was
appointed to the post. Considering the expanding nature of the business,
some improvements to the system so as to enable IPD to produce integrated
financial and cost data would have been beneficial to both vanagement and
staff. Although the project had the services of a qualified cost
accountant, only ad hoc cost data were produced these were mainly on
stumpage and sawn timber production.  The support staff situation in the
accounts department remained poor with regular absenteeism and general lack
of motivation. Owing to these reasons, the senior accounting staff were
rarely able to devote time to any form of systems work other than the
production of routine financial information. The Cost Accountant usually
doubled as the paymaster for the Dola Hills mill and office, a pitiful
waste of resources. Both he and the Senior Accountant frequently had to
check the work of juniors in addition to their regular functions. With
these constraints, it was creditable that the accounts were produced on
time.
Procurement
3.23      On balance IPD's procurement experience during the project period
was satisfactory. Where delays were experienced they were due to IPD's
unfamiliarity with Bank's guidelines on procurement. The very first ICB
tender specifications submitted for approval by the Bank were too specific
and were thought to limit international competitiveness, with the Bank's
advice, IPD revised the specifications before the tender. In the subse-
quent tenders, except for general delays, the Bank's refusal to either
approve contracts or payments were limited to only a few instances. Once,
the Bank had to advise IPD to reconsider a decision recommending a supplier
who was not the cheapest, although IPD maintained that standardization was
the reason for the recommendation, the Bank was unable to accept it. In
their comments on the PCR the former management of IPD states that
procuring from the cheapest source on the insistence of the Bank turned out
to be unreliable and the equipment was more expensive to maintain. On
another instance the Bank refused to disburse against the claim for freight
costs because that portion of the shipment was carried in a non-member flag
carrier.
IV. Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
4.01      At appraisal, a financial rate of return (FRR) and an economic
rate of return (ERR) were calculated for the Basic Project Model and a
single saw mill model. The assumption for the Basic model were that the
cost stream would include: the project sawmill, the cost of increasing the
logging capacity to 120,000 m3, cost of wood produced under the Phase I
project which are ready to be logged and processed, Phase II plantation
cnsts and cost of logging and sawmilling of the Phase II wood including the
provision of additional capacity. The returns had been calculated for both
with and without the cost of the Pulp and paper mill.
4.02      For comparability, the present analysis makes the same assump-
tions except that the Pulp and Paper Mill was excluded because the proposal
for the mill had not materialized and therefore no up-to-date information
is available for it. As compared with the appraisal FRR of 11% (without



- 13 -
the pulp and paper mill) the present estimate is 8%. This was primarily
due to higher than estimated cost of project, the adverse effects on the
Project of the country's generally poor economic conditions and the delayed
start of the saw mill with the consequent loss of revenue. These factors
were not offset by the higher prices which IPD charged.
4.03      The assumptions for the Single Sawmill Model were as follows: an
effective life of 15 years for the sawmill, wood planted prior to Phase I
charged at import parity cost. At appraisal, a financial rate of return of
11% was estimated on a two shift basis. The present estimate is 9%. The
lower estimate is due to the higher than estimated cost for the sawmill
(Para. 3.20) which was not offset by the increased prices charged by IPD
for its product. A further factor is the non-feasibility of running two
shifts, contrary to the expectation Pt appraisal. To maintain a two shift
operation a strict program of equipment maintenance and a highly organized
logging and transport system are required, a two shift operation carriedout
badly could increase the unit cost of production significantly.
4.04      At appraisal, the following assumptions had been made for the
economic analysis (a) shadow wage rate for local unskilled labor at 60% of
actual; (b) the project's imported inputs valued at 12% higher than the
official rate of exchange; (c) sawawood prices to reflect border prices. On
similar assumptions the project is now expected to have an ERR of 15%
compared to the 20% at appraisal. Using the recommended conversion factors
and by applying the recommended shadow wage rate the estimated ERR still
remains close to 15%.
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
5.01      As a condition of further involvement with Zambia's industrial
forestry program, the Bank insisted that the Government follow a coordi-
nated approach to forestry and forest industries matters. A framework for
such an approach was laid when the Government decided to make MLNR
responsible for all activities in forestry and forest indistries with the
exception of the pulp and paper mill which was to remain with INDECO.
However, further institutional shifts that the Bank would have liked to see
adopted during the Phase II did not materialize. The major institutional
drawback of IPD was its continuing status as a division of the FD despite
an agreement that it would be incorporated into a commercial company in the
first year of the project. The incorporation did not take place till three
years later. The delay affected many aspects of the project adversely some
more than others, these are staffing, training and general management.
5.02      All of IPD's shortcomings regarding staffing matters could not be
attributed wholly to the incorporation issue since there were inherent
deficiencies in the structure of staffing which even a timely incorporation
would not have remedied. For instance at appraisal five out of the seven
key managerial positions were occupied by expatriates funded under
bilateral aid. These arrangements are not always favorable to the
recipients since the determination of how, when and who are to fill such
posts are generally dependent on the respective aid programs. There were
at least two ways in which IPD was adversely affected; firstly, there were
long periods when it could not obtain quick replacements for the expatriate



- 14 -
staff terminating their contracts and secondly certain staff that IPD
received were not of the highest caliber. Regardless of its corporate
status at the time, IPD should have, pursued an aggressive policy in having
the positions filled through the intervention of government. To some
extent thp issue appears to be one of poor management rather than that of a
change in the coporate status. However, in the case of recruitment of key
staff locally IPD was constrained by the civil service rules to which it
was subjected to in the absence of the incorporation. A case in point was
the appointment of a marketing manager by the Public Service Commission
without consultation with IPD. The candidate was found unsuitable and
later had to X removed. In training too IPD continued to have difficul-
ties owing to institutional and design shortcomings (para. 3.17).
5.03      During Phase II IPD management was under continuous stress, it
functioned as a weak centralized management system with even weaker
peripheral support. Since several of its key operating divisions of
engineering, production and marketing were not fully staffed, there could
be no proper delegation of responsibility to the operating divisions.
5.04      IPD management's poor performance was also evident from the
decline in labor productivity and machine utilization during the project.
No consideration had been given to long range planning or manpower develop-
ment planning during appraisal nor were these suggested during the early
supervisions. On-the-job training was briefly discussed during SAR
preparation but was not formulated into a monitorable program in the SAR or
during subsequent supervisions. During te later supervisions when these
shortcomings became obvious it was decided that they would be dealt with in
the Phase III design (para. 1.10).
VI. CONCLUSIONS
6.01      The project in overall terms had been implemented satisfactorily,
the plantation component for which over 80% of the financing was provided
exceeded its physical targets. One of the main considerations for the Bank
to continue to be involved with the government's long-term forest and
forest industries program was the need to ensure that there existed a
coordinated approach in Zambia in the development of her forest industries.
This focus was achieved during the preparatory stage of this project when
MLNR was made responsible for all activities connected with industrial
forestry with the exception of the pulp and paper mill. There were other
institutional developments within the project which the Bank would have
liked to see occur, mainly the change in the status of IPD, but these
changes did not take place as expected. However the implementation
experience of the Phase II project offers some useful lessons mainly in the
areas of appraisal planning, cofinancing arrangements, project costing,
management information and supervision, these could be beneficial to both
the Bank and ZAFFICO in the implementation of the Phase III project.
6.02      The negative impact of the time gap between the two phases
adversely affected the continuing operations of Phase I as well as the
early performance of Phase II. The lesson to be learned is that prepara-
tion of follow up projects and assurance of timely appraisal are key areas
in which the Banks own performance could be improve.



- 15 -
6.03      The project was cofinanced with CDC, but at the time of appraisal
CDC had only agreed in principle to finance 18% of the cost of the
project. Little else is mentioned about CDC's participation during the
supervision stage although a CDC staff member accompanied the Bank's
supervision mission on two occasions. Financing being crucial to the
capital needs of an enterprise such as the IPD, sources of financing should
not have been left tentative. The point that can be gleaned from this
experience is that the financing plan has to be formulated in the clearest
possible terms. There should also be much closer cooperation and the
sharing of information between the cofinanciers on a continuing basis.
6.04      A prerequisite for a firm financing plan, particularly for an
ongoing project, would be the existence of a properly costed and quantified
program which takes into account all the activities of the project entity.
The project is usually identified within this overall program. If this
approach had been adopted in Phase II, it would not only have provided the
opportunity to systematically assess the financial needs of every operation
of the enterprise but in the process would have given sufficient focus to
the staffing, training, and management requirements of IPD.
6.05      IPD management did not appear to have been sensitive to the
productivity of its equipment and labor (para. 3.12), it failed to monitor
the effectivenees of these resources, keep the equipment in good repair and
see that the productivity of labor is not allowed to decline. The project
had failed to maintain an effective management information system (MIS)
which would monitor and measure among other matters labor and machine
productivity. Phase III on the other hand has included provision for
improving the management information system in ZAEFICO.
6.07      On average, Phase II supervisiors have been carried out every
eight months, the space be.ween the earlier missions were even longer. More
frequent supervisions, particularly during the early period of the project,
should have been carried ot-. Many of the technical aspects of forestry
had been well covered durinr these supervisions, however, in the case of
fire protection stronger Bank action should tave been taken to ensure that
the fire protection measures were enforced in a timely manner. Institu-
tional and financial management matters of the project on the other hand
received less attention until the later missions. Progress reporting was
generally well done although a system of MIS would have served both the IPD
management's decision making and Bank's monitoring of key performance
indicators well.
6.08      The key to the success of a modern timber industry is the
presence of qualified management in positions of authority. Other than the
expatriate staff of IPD (now its successor ZAFFICO) alnost all of the staff
are civil servants with little experience in private sector operations.
Their tendency would be to manage the organization as a department of the
government, even with a change in the corporate status of the enterprise
this situation would present a continuing problem unless a marked reorien-
tation of the top management is achieved. The third phase has already
provided ZAFFICO with systems enhancements and corporate planning
capability to be used as tools for efficient management, these enhancements
are not without costs and will have to be recovered from increased revenue,
the efficacy of such improved techniques finally depend on how best they



- 16 -
are used by management. These aspects have to be carefully monitored
during the early stages of the Phase III project not only to see that the
systems are in place but more importantly to see that they produce the
desired results.



Z^H~~~~~~~~                           I
ZAHN [A
IIOUSTRIAI. FORESTBY PLANTATION PROJECT 11
Project Completlon Report
Achievement of Physical Targeate
SAN Targnt                                   Actual
Wfhole Project                  Year  I    Yer 2    Year     Tear 4    Year S   Total
2ParAtionm                        S Years         Average    197H9179   IITi    1971                           an1/82    1 7    Yr l-S
1. New Planted Area (Ha)
(a) Pine                                    15.0,           I0w3        3,061      1,069      3,578      4,615       2,289  13.612
(h) Eucalyptus                               2,500            SW0         .495       691        594        i18       1.204    3,167
Total          11,500          3,500       1,5S6      3,753      4,172      4,796       3.493   19,779
2.   opliuiti a (Ila)                            2,000           400          256         -          --        211        299       744
1.  Road Constructton (1Km)
(a) Access Roads                              175             35          II         IS         22         47         IS        130
(b) Logging Roads                              52             10                     -          -- _61                 14       7S
(e) Compartwmnt Roads                         542            114          Is         20         21         -          -         -
(d) Fire Protection Roads                     281             56          --         --         --                     -         -
4.  Road Maintenance (Ku) I/
(a) -lrebreak Roads.                         2,137           54'7         --         --         --         +98        440       S13
(h) Access Roads                               595           119           _          _         __-                    - 
(c) LoNging Rustle                            402             8     0                                                  -
(d) Compartoenit Roads                      1.295            259                     --         --                     33        '1
5.  lirvesting and Logging (000 1I)
(a) Peliling (inc iding thinning)             600            120          83         130        133        III        172       630
(b) Extraction                                600            120          71         96         110         79         71      433
(c) Transportation                            600            120          70         79         97         39         62       397
6.  liouin  (Unit)
Ji) Low  1bn.ity                               12            2/3           1         --         -            3          I         S
(h) lZediuu.D.rnalty                           I5              3           2          2          4         -          -
(c) 3li3i. penalty                            350             70           9         68        139          30         28      191
(d) Ablution hlock.                            39            I/7           2         --         -          -          -          2
I/  Records for these activitlee have leen poorly mnintained, where data are available firebreake and compartmmt roads have been
mixed up.



- 18 -
Table 2
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PLANTATIONS II (Loan 1424-ZA)
Project Completion Report
Fire Occurrences and Damage 1978-1982
Total
Number              Area                Area             Loss in
Year         of Fires             Affected            Killed             Value
1978           54                    707               132              50,151
1979           68                - 1,459               294             125,Z()
1980           59                    782               280             101,121
1981           51                  1,254               155              97,855
1982           55                  2,051               460             125,832
Total          287                 6,244             1,331             500,168
_~



Table 3
- 19 -
ZAMBI
Industrial Forestry Project Phase II (Ln 1424-ZA)
Project Completion Report
(A) Project's Actual Cout
Local    Foreign        Total           Local    Foreign       Total
- '000 ---K I'000------   ----us  '000---
Plantation                   18,595   11,304        29,899           22,128   13,452        35,580
Logging & Transport             586       539        1,125              697       641       1,338
Savailling                    1,274    1,575         2,849            1,516    1,874        3,390
Staff Training                   19       125           144               23       149         172
Studies Trials                   -         24            24               -         29          29
Total                  20,474   13,567         34,041           24,364   16,145       40,509
(B) Cost Estimates at Appraisal
Local   Foreign        Total          Local      Foreign      Total
-     -K '000--- ---   --------US$ '000-
Plantation                    8,600    6,300        14,900           10,700    7,900       18,600
Logging & Transport             100    1,100         1,200              100    1,400        1,500
Saumilling                      700    1,500         2,200              900    2,000        2,900
Staff Training                   20        80        . 100               30       100        . 130
Studies, Trials                 200       100          300              270       100         370
Physical Contingencies        1,000       900        1,900            1,200    1,200        2,400
Price Contingencies           3,600    3,300         6,900            4,500    4,100        8,600
Total                  14,220   13,280         27,500          17,700   16,800        34,500
.~ m.



- 20 -
Table 4
ZAMB IA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PLANTATIONS II (Loan 1424-ZA)
Project Completion Report
Schedule of Disbursements
(USS '000)
Actual
Appraisal Estimate                    Actual                   As 2
FY          Quarter      Cumulative        Quarter      Cumulative        of Estimate
1978/79
September       1,134         1,134               781           781              68
December        1,134         2,268                71           852              38
March           1,144         3,412               284         1,136              33
June            1,145         4,557               340         1,476              32
1979/80
September         598         5,155                 6         1,482              29
December          599         5,754             2,572         4,054              70
March             598         6,352             1,&i'3        5,517              87
June              599         6,951               974         6,491              93
1980/81
September         756         7,707               526         7,017              91
December          756         8,463             1,267         8,284              98
March             766         9,229               985         9,264             100
June              767         9,996               831        10,100             101
1981/82
September         766        10,762                95        10,195              95
December          767        11,529               330        10,525              91
March             766        12,295               752        11,277              92
June              767        13,062             2,094        13,371             102
1982/83
September         934        13,996              470        13,841               99
December          935        14,931               563        14,404              96
March        ,   934         15,865                -         14,404              91
June              935        16,800               497        14,901              89
1983/84
September          -             -                913        15,814              94
December           -             -                242        16,056              94
Xarch              -             -                667        16,723              99



-21 -                          Table S
ZAMBTA
Industrial Forestry Project Phase 1I (Lu 1424-ZA)
Project Comiletion Report
Project's Financial Rate of Return of Project
(K '000)
Year             Cost              Benefit       Net Benefit
1             5,724                   300          -5,424
2             7,637                   570          -7,067
3            10,213                 1,110          -9,103
4             9,610                   870          -8,740
5             6,809                    60          -6,749
6              1,110                  300            -800
7             1,552                 1,768             216
8             2,088                 2,652             564
9             3,480                 4,420             Q40
10             4,980                4,420              560
11             6,710                12,943           6,233
12            12,730                16,334           3,604
13            11,347               19,099            7,752
14            22,068               32,678           10,610
15            14,905               23,420            8,515
16            16,545               25,897            9,252
17            13,490               21,554            8,064
18             6,691               12,918            6,227
19             7,456               13,890            6,434
20             7,47.                13,915           6,439
21             5,236                15,490          10,254
22             11,242               14,278           3,036
23             5,726                7,082            1,356
24             2,500                 3,366             866
25            32,743               41,854            9,111
26            32,319               41,278            8,958
27            35,094               44,643            9,549
28            50,171               64,186           14,015
29            21,865               27,772            5,907
FRR - 8Z



- 22 -
Table 6
ZAMBIA
Industrial Forestry Project Phase II (Ln 1424-ZA)
Project Completion Report
Project's Economic Rate of Return
Year             Cost              Benefit        Net Benefit
1              5,037                  360           -4,677
2              6,721                  684           -6,037
3              8,987                1,332           -7,655
4              8,457                1,044           -7,413
5              5,991                   72           -5,919
6                968                  360             -608
7              1,366                2,121               755
8              1,837                3,182            1,345
9              3,062                5,304            Z,242
10              4,142                5,304            1,162
11              5,905               15,532            9,627
12             11,203               19,601            8,398
13              9,985               22,919           12,933
14             19,420               39,213           19,793
15             13,116               28,104           14,988
16             14,559               31,077           16,517
17             11,871               25,865           13,994
18              5,889               15,502            9,614
19              6,562               16,669           10,107
20              6,579               16,698            10,119
21              4,608               18,588            13,980
22              9,893               17,134            7,241
23              5,039                8,498            3,459
24              2,200                4,039            1,839
25             28,814               50,225           21,411
26             28,441               49,533           21,902
27             30,882               53,571           22,689
28             44,150               77,024           32,873
29             19,242               33,326           14,084
ERR - 15%



- 23 -                           Table 7
ZAMBIA
Industrial Forestry Prolect Phase IT (La 1424-ZA)
Project Completion Report
Financial Rate of Return for Single Saw Kill
(K. wuilion)
Year             Cost              Benefit 2/    Net Benefit
-1              2.90               --                 (2.90)
2              2.12 1/              1.62             (0.50)
3.             2.15                 2.42              0.27
4               3.58                4.04              0.46
5              3.58                 4.04              0.46
6               3.58                4.04              0.46
7              3.58                 4.04              0.46
8              3.58                 4.04              0.46
9              3.58                 4.04              0.46
10              3.58                4.04               0.46
11              3.58                4.04               0.46
12              3.58                4.04               0.46
13              3.58                4.04               0.46
14              3.58                 4.04              0.46
15              3.58                4.04               0.46
16              3.58                4.54               0.96
PRR - 92
1/ Includes required rehabilitation K0.6 million to reach capacitv
2/ Single shift operation of 20,000 m3 per year.



-24 -                             Table 8
ZAMBIA
Industrial Forestry Project Phase II (Ln 1424-ZA)
Project Completion Report
Adjusted Project Costs at 1982 Prices
ZK '000
Total              Foreigul/   Adjusted              Local    Adjusted      AdJ~.tsted
Project   Foreign   Infla.         1982      Local   Infla.       1982          1982
Cost      Cost      Factor    For. Cost   Cost    Factor   Loc. Cost   Total Cost
1978      3,569      1,719      1.35        2,320       1850      1.84     3,404         5,724
1979      5,254      2,511      1.13        2,837      2,743      1.75     4,800         7,637
1980      8,427      4,168      1.03        4,293      4,259      1.39     5,920        10,213
1981     10,356      2,081    -1.07         1,935      8,275      1.29    10,675        12,610
1982      6,435      3,088    -1.02         3,027      3,347      1.L2     3,782         6,809
Total    34,041    13,567                  14,412    20,474               28,581        42,993
1/ Obtained from Unit Value Index of Hanufactured Exports



Ahms 1
-25 -                        Paw 1
ZAMBIA FINEETRT AlD FOIEST IIDUSTlRES CIRPOKATISE LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE
P.O. OX 71 U  NDOLA           PHONE 3224/5 46             TELEX ZA30000
Your Ref. ......    ....... ... ....._.D.
I.41C/499
Our Ref........... .... ..............
4th June, 1985
Mr. Y. Watanabe,
Director,
Operations Evaluation Department,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street, N.W.,
Washington DC 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Sir,
Industrial Forestry Project Phase II (Loan 1424-ZA)
Project Completion Report (Draft)
Thank you for your letter of 16th April, 1985 in which
you enclose the Draft Completion Report for our
comments.
The report is a fair reflection of what happened and
the successes and failures of Phase II project are
clearly highlighted. The project on the whole as
indicated was a success.
The main cause of the design short coming highlighted
in the summary is that there was no project preparation
for phase II and the economic realities of the country
were not taken into account. Governments contribution
to the project was taken for granted as in Phase I
without due consideration to Governments own ability
to support the project from its normal budget. This
support was not as forthcoming as in the Phase I
Project.
Industrial Plantations operations were fragmented, and
this created problems not only for the supervision
missions but also for project staff. The other
problem was the lack of co-ordination among the
financing institutions i.e. CDC and IBRD.
2/...
A Member of ZIMCO



-26-                   _Ams I
III IMPLEMENTATION
3.02. The agreement with Government specifically
provided for adequate budgetory allocation to be
made annually from 1978 to 1982. There was no
mechanism of ensuring this was done.  As a result
only for two years did the project have adequate
funding.
3.08.  Weeding  The reduction in weeding intensity
at the beginning of the Project was a result of
shortage of equipment and late land preparation which
resulted in the planted areas being cleaner than
expected. The fire hazard aspects was known and in
those areas that required special attention this was
given. The average weeding in the 1st two years is
around 70%. Thelowest is year 4 with about 50%.
3.09. Pruning and Thinning
The non-availability of a market for the small wood
from 1st thinnings made management delay the thinnings
in the hope that a market will be available by 1981/82.
This did not happen and now the backlog is a lot more
than anticipated. It is now expected that parts of
the Plantation will be menaged for specific end-uses.
Thus some of the older unthinned areas may be turned
into pulpwood areas and others that are younger and can
be thinned will be managed for sawlog output.
3.10. Fire Protection
The fire protection methods that were adopted were
adequate if all the necessary equipment had been
available. There were inadequate firefighting vehicles,
the communication system was poor although a new
system was designed it could not be totally installed
because of funding problems. The high incidence of
fires can only be appreciated if the causes of these
fires are looked at. Of the 297 fires reported during
the fire years 175 of them or 59% are attributed to
incendiarism, hunters, and thieves accounted for 56 or
19%.  Own workers caused 25 -fires or 8%.  :deallythere
should be no reason why our own workers should start
these fires. The fires started by our workers fall
into two categories as follows
3/...



-27                      An-  hI
Pap 3
a) Fires started as a result of cooking fires left
unattended after lunch in the field. These
constitute the majority and do very little
damage because of the early attack on them.
b) Fires resulting from poor cont-rol Of boundery
or early burning. During the period there were
three of these fires. So it is not true to say
many of the were started owing to badly
supervised controlled burning.
The disciplinery mechanism for dealing with the
situation was not available. This has now been
rectified and there is a lot more accountability on
the part of the fire officers and the plantation
superintendents. Although adequate rinancing for
fire-tighting was provided under the project, there
was disagreement between the Bank and Project
Management on the type Of equipment to be procured.
By the time there was agreement some of the equipment
procured did not stand up to expectation. It is only
hoped that both the Bank and the project management
have learnt some lesson from this. The main remedial
measure is to have adequate equipment available when
required.
Logging and Transport
3.12. The record keeping in the logging section has
been improved. It would appear the Bank mission did
not listen to the practical field explanation on the
differences between the volume felled extracted and
transported. The volume felled shows the total tree
volume. At extraction there is an automatic loss of
volume through loss of tops and because extraction is
normally behind the volume extracted will be lower and
there will still be some wood in the forest awaiting
extraction. The same goes for transport. There is
no physical loss in volume other than by way of tops.
The differences in volumes is due to different
capacities for each of the operations.
The drop in output in machinery is reflection of poor
availability of the equipment which was also due to
For maintenance. Although -the Operators and Workers
had gone through the Workers' Training Centre, there
was no follow up to see that the Workers performed
their work properly as per instruction. This is now
4/...



- 28-                  Annex 
being corrected by the recruitment of a Training
Specialist.
Training
Having been part of the Forest Department all the
training were handled by the Department. However
it was realized by the project management that this
was not satisfactory and the organization took on
all training not directly related to Forestry. As
far back as the Phase I period the organization made
a start at sponsoring students to take up automotive,
mechanical and electrical engineering at the Northern
Technical College. Because of poor salaries on
completion the students even though bonded left for                           y
greener pastures who were prepared to reimburse IPD
the expense on each of the people concerned.
The financing of training through loan funds was not
favourably looked upon by Government at the beginning
of the Phase II project hence the meagre allocation.
This position has since changed.
Accounting
3.22. The level and calibre of supporting staff in
the accounts office remained poor for the project
period but we are not aware of the regular absenteeism
being referred to.
Procurement
3.23. The refusal by the Bank to accept managements
reasons for choosing a supplier who was not the cheap-
est led not only to delays in procurement but when
the equipment that was cheapest was bought it turned
out to be unreliable and more expensive to maintain.
From this the lesson to be learnt is that the
procurement of equipment should not be based on price
as the major factor as the Bank had insisted.
We hope the above comments will be of some assistance
in the preparation of the final report.
Yours sincerely,
ZAFFICO LIMITED.,
F. B. Nduna
Managing Director
FBN:jcn.



TANLANIA     toC.aZ A M I IA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT, PHASE It
POIC? PI.M4AI,ON AILAS
|ANGO,A {,_,     \,.*P    *t1        XINI UPO 1 A                                                                                                             4
-'7t-                                                                                                  W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PLAMTIA Kt9?4I9fl
ANOOLA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~OL
1 ! ~~Z A M  B I A                            ,4gsAA \       uSM
N.           A      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ .~~~~ mm Am
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sa  flAIst Pat
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,W
A  PAP AM FAMI va No4 1






