PILE Copy
Report No. 1429-ZA
Zambia Appraisal of the Industrial
Forestry Project-Phase 11
April 20, 1977
East Africa Region
General Agricultural Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (K)
Kl = US$1.2444
US$1 = KO.8036
ABBREVIATIONS
LNRT   - Ministry of Land, Natural Resources and Tourism
FD     -  Forest Department
IPD    -  Industrial Plantations Division
CDC    -  Commonwealth Development Corporation
KITE   -  Kafubu Industrial Timber Enterprises
INDECO -  Industrial Development Corporation Limited
ZSBS   -  Zambia Steel and Building Supplies Limited
GOVERNMENT AND PROJECT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                     i-iii
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                  1
II.  BACKGROUND                                                    2
A.  General                                                   2
B.  Forest Resources and Wood Utilization                     4
C.  Forest Based Services and Industries                      4
D.  Government Forest Services                                7
III.  THE INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROGRAM                               9
A. Origin, Concept and Objectives                             9
B. Phase I Project                                           10
C.  The Project Area                                         11
IV.  THIE PROJECT                                                 12
A.  General Description                                      12
B.  Detailed Features                                        13
C.  Project Costs                                            17
D.  Financing                                                18
E.  Procurement                                              18
F.  Disbursement                                             19
G.  Accounts and Audit                                       19
V.  ORGANIZATION AND M4ANAGEMENT                                 19
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES                               22
A.  Yields and Production                                    22
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIOlT                                  26
VIII.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS                               28
This document has a restricted disttibution and may be used by recipients only in the pertormunce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discioted withOut World Bank authonzation.



ANNEXES
I. Forest Resources
2. Afforestation and Reforestation
3.  Table I - Calculation of Stumpage Rates - Direct Costs
Table 2 - Stumpage Rates - Indirect Costs
Table 3 - Yields
Table 4 - Stumpage Rates
Table 5 - Stumpage Rates - Pine, Sawlogs and Smallwood
Table 6 - Stumpage Rates - Eucalyptus, Sawlogs, Large Poles and Smallwood
Table 7 - Stumpage Rates - Pine, sawlog utilization only
Table 8 - Stumpage Rates - Eucalyptus, sawlog and pole utilization only
4.  Trials with Charcoal-making in Land-clearing Operations
Table I - Estimated Costs
5. Logging and Transport
Table 1 - Logging Costs
Table 2 - Industrial Plantations - Logging Section, Vehicles
Table 3 - Utilization of Logging Vehicles
Table 4 - Monthly and Cumulative Logging Records 1975
6. Sawmilling
Table 1 - Sawmills in Zambia, 1976
Table 2 - Production, Imports and Apparent Consumption of Sawnwood in
Zambia
Table 3 - Ten Year Cash Flow Schedule for Proposed New Sawmill
Figure I - IPD Preferred Sawmill Layout
7. Pulp and Paper Manufacture
Table 1 - Financial Projections for the Proposed Pulp and Paper Mill
8. Table 1 - Summary Project Costs
Table 2 - Plantations - Direct and Indirect Costs
Table 3 - Saw Milling
Table 4 - Studies and Trials on Land Clearing and Charcoal Production
Table 5 - Procurement Categories
9. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



ANNEXES (Continued)
10. Financial and Economic Evaluation
Table 1 - Financial Rate of Return (FRR) for the Project (1978-1982)
Table 2 - Internal Economic Rate of Return (IER) on the Project
(1978-1982)
Table 3 - Financial Rate of Return Calculation for the Single Project
Sawmill
Table 4 - Financial Rate of Return for Total Afforestation Program 1949
to 1982 Plus Sawmilling, Pole Production and Pulp and Paper
Mill
Table 5 - Internal Economic Rate of Return (IER) on Total Afforestation
Program (1949-1982)
Table 6 - Financial Rate of Return for Entire Program (1949-1982)
Without a Pulp and Paper Mill
Table 7 - Discounted Net Values with a Pulp and Paper Mill
Table 8 - Discounted Net Values without a Pulp and Paper Mill
11. Government Cash Flow
12. Project Implementation Schedule
13. The Industrial Plantation Division (IPD)
Table 1 - Accounts
Table 2 - IPD Projected Trading Accounts
Table 3 - Full IPD Projected Staff Training (1978-1982)
Table 4 - Phase II Project-financed Staff Training (1978-1982)
Chart WB16566 - Organization Chart of IPD
Map WB 12526
Map WB 12527






ZA- IA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Zambia has accorded high priority to the devel-
opment of forest resources so that in due course it can become self-suffi-
cient in meeting its timber requirements including the products of wood
based industries. It also recognizes that afforestation programs are impor-
tant in providing protection against soil erosion and in maintaining river
flows. To this end, the Government has been carrying out an afforestation
program since 1949 and more recently has supported the establishment of some
wood-based industries. This report appraises a project which would help meet
these objectives within Government's overall long-term program.
ii.       Indigenous forests cover some 50% of the total land area, providing
adequate water catchment and soil cover, as well as some 90% of wood used in
the country. However, the easily accessible parts of these forests are dis-
appearing rapidly, with shifting cultivation, clear-burnings, and large-scale
charcoal production. Also, the indigenous species take a relatively long time
to grow, and the wood is often twisted and difficult to process. In order to
overcome these problems, Zambia Government set up a forest estate of 8 million
ha (about 9% of the total land area) within which exploitation of forest re-
sources is controlled by the Forest Department (FD). Also, following a decade
of research and trials, the Government created the Industrial Plantations
Division (IPD) within FD, to plant approximately 2,000 ha of Pine and
Eucalyptus a year, starting from the 1960s.
iii.      A Bank loan of US$5.3 million (Loan 562-ZA) helped to finance the
first phase of a long-term afforestation program. The planting program
for 1969-76 was completed by 1975, but at a cost higher than that estimated
at appraisal, mainly due to inflation. During that period, IPD, which managed
the project, established itself as an efficient, commercially-oriented,
self-accounting unit, with considerable capability in plantation establishment
and maintenance, logging and transport, sawmilling, transmission pole manu-
facture and otlher wood fabrication, marketing, as well as research and devel-
opment. It also became clear during this period that unified control (or
at least proper coordination) of plantation development and exploitation
was essential for the orderly development of the forestry and forest indus-
tries sector. The 1976 centralization of these activities in the Ministry
of Land Natural Resources and Tourisn (LNRT) was, therefore, a major step
in the right direction.
iv.       The Project would, ovei the 5 years 1977/78 through 1981/82, con-
tinue IPD's long-term program by planting annually about 3,000 ha of Pine
and about 500 ha of Eucalyptus; replanting about 400 ha of clearfelled plan-
tations; maintaining all existing and proposed  plantations;3 doubling IPD's
loggina and transport capacity (from 60,000 m. to 120,000 m  rounldwood
per year), constructing and equipping a sawmill of 40,000 m /year sawnwocd
capacity; training professional, technical and managerial staff; and under-
taking research and trials on land clearing and charcoal production.



- ii -
v.        The Project would cost about US$34.5 million (including contingen-
cies), of which about US$16.8 million is expected to be in foreign exchange.
A Bank loan of US$16.8 million for 20 years is proposed. The Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC) is discussing with Zambia Government a possible
investment of about US$6.2 million in the Project. Government would finance
about US$11.5 million, some of which would be contributed by IPD revenues.
Sawmill machinery, tractors, heavy equipment and motor vehicles would be
subject to international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. Fuel, tools, stores and other equipment and items in contracts of
US$100,000 or less, as well as contracts for land clearing, would be pur-
chased or awarded in accordance with Government procedures, which are
satisfactory. Other civil works, including the sawmill building, would be
done after local competitive bidding or by force account.
vi.       Responsibility for the Project would rest with LNRT whose IPD
(within the Forest Department) would undertake actual implementation. Al-
though the planting program would be some 50% higher than in the first phase
project, no appreciable increase in forestry staff is envisaged. However,
training coupled with suitable Government assurances on staff allocation
would be necessary to ensure good management and technical staff. Also
sawmilling and logging staff would each increase by about 35%. A new corpora-
tion integrating the functions of plantation development and wood processing
would be a desirable follow-up to the measures described in paragraph iii
above, and it was agreed at negotiations that incorporation would take place
by December 31, 1978. Assurances were obtained that any successor organiza-
tion would continue the efficient management, silvicultural, and commercial
practices established by IPD.
vii.      The Project would result in a total annual production of wood  n-
creasing from about 100,000 m roundwood in 1985 to little over 400,000 m
by the year 2005.  It would also maintain the old plantations whose annual  3
yield would increase from 100,000 m roundwood in 1977 to more than 700,000 m
by the year 2000. Under the assumptions in paragraphs 7.01 and 7.02 the
Project and necessary associated future investments would earn an internal
financial rate of return (IFR) of 11% and an internal economic rate of return
(IER) of 20%. Even if, due to lack of funds or technical expertise, a
pulpmill did not get built, the Project, which then would have to rely
entirely on sawmilling and pcle producticn, would still earn an IFR of 10.5%
and an IER of 20% on a much reduced scale of activities with a smaller
economic impact. A direct comparison of the above rates of return with and
without the pulp mill would be misleading, since the pulpmill would be a
substantial industry compared with sawmilling.  For example with the pulp
mill the average net annual benefit is estimated at K 22 million and thie
discounted net value K 115 million, but with only sawmills and pole manu-
facture average net annual value is K 7 million and the discounted n2t value
K 33.4 million.  These figures reflect the significant difference in !:he
scope and economic impact of the Proiect with and without the pulp  nd paper
mill.  The IER is relatively insensitive to small changes in costs and
benefits (Annex 10).  An increase of 20% in the cost stream or a reduction
of the benefits stream by 20% would reduce IER by only 3 points to 17%.



- iii -
Government and foreign exchange cash flows (Annex 11) show that Government
would earn a sustained net inflow of foreign exchange from Year 2 (1979),
and a sustained positive net cash flow on the Project from Year 11 (1988).
viii.     In addition to the first industrial forestry project, the Bank has,
since 1968, assisted the Zambian agricultural and rural sector through loans
for a livestock project, commercial crops development, and integrated family
farming. The livestock loan was cancelled in 1973 at Government request,
because the project was having serious problems due mainly to adverse pricing
policies and poor management. The commercial crop development has been rea-
sonably successful; the loan was fully disbursed in December 1976. The inte-
grated farming project has achieved anticipated levels of yields and farmer
incomes. However, farmer participation, and therefore total production, is
only 50% of appraisal estimates. The forestry sector has been successful,
particularly in growing Pine and Eucalyptus; it has put Bank financing to
good use in the past, has been well managed, and now deserves further Bank
assistance.
ix.       The Project is suitable for a loan of US$16.8 million to the Gov-
ernment of Zambia.






ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
I. INTRODIUCTION
1.01      The Government of Zambia has accorded high priority to the devel-
opment of forest resources so that in due course it can become self-suffi-
cient in meeting its timber requirements including the products of wood
based industries. It also recognizes that afforestation programs are impor-
tant in providing protection against soil erosion and in maintaining river
flows. To this end, the Government has been carrying out an afforestation
program since 1949 and more recently has decided to establish some wood based
industries. This report appraises a project which would help meet these objec-
tives within Government's overall long-term program.
1.02      The indigenous forests now cover some 50% of the total land area,
but shifting cultivation, clear-burning, and unmanaged exploitation will
in time reduce the usefulness of these indigenous forests as soil cover and
water catchment areas. The Government has therefore established a forest
estate of over 8 million ha (some 9% of Zambia's total land area). Forest
management is the responsibility of the Forest Department of the Ministry of
Land Natural Resources and Tourism (LNRT).
1.03      To solve the problems of long gestation periods and difficult
commercial exploitation associated with the indigenous species, the Forest
Department, about 30 years ago, began the planting of fast-growing exotic
species (mainly Pine and Eucalyptus). This was followed in the 1960s by the
creation of an Industrial Plantations Division (IPD) within the Department to
handle the then considerably expanded afforestation program.
1.04      The Second National Development Plan (1972-76), in addition to
providing for continuing the normal activities and services of the Forest
Department (paragraph 2.15), included provision for the management of exist-
ing IPD plantations of pine and eucalyptus, plus the annual expansion of the
area planted to these species by 2,000 he. This was part of an 8-year Indus-
trial Forestry Project, designed to plant a total of 16,000 ha, of Pine and
Eucalyptus starting from 1969. The project was partly financed by a Bank
loan of US$5.3 million (Loan 562-ZA) - the first Bank loan for plantation
forestry. The target of 16,000 ha was achieved a year ahead of schedule
although with considerable cost overruns, and yields are expected to be
slightly lower than originally anticipated. However, actual and forecast
increases in the value of timber products are expected to offset the com-
bination of higher costs and lower yields and leave the estimated economic
rate of return relatively unaffected.
1.05      Since 1968, other Bank fi.ancial assistance to the Zambian agri-
cultural and rural sector has been for a livestock project, commercial crops
development, and integrated family farming. The livestock loan was cancelled



-2-
in 1973 at Government request, because the project was having serious prob-
lems due mainly to adverse pricing policies and poor management. The com-
mercial crop development has been reasonably successful; the loan was fully
disbursed in December 1976. The integrated farming project has achieved
anticipated levels of yields and farmer incomes. However, farmer partici-
pation, and therefore total production, is only 50% of appraisal estimates.
1.06      Several components were considered for inclusion in this Project,
but were dropped for various reasons. For example, plantations for fuelwood
supply, trials on large scale charcoal production, and experimentation to pro-
duce plywood from local wood were eventually excluded. The first should take
place only after a thorough nationwide wood utilization study planned by Gov-
ernment; the other two items are being undertaken at the Forest Department's
research and development center near Kitwe, and do not require Bank assis-
tance. Fibreboard and waferboard manufacture originally suggested by Govern-
ment were, by mutual agreement, finally excluded because further production
and marketing tests would be necessary before investing in local production
facilities. Government is currently conducting the necessary tests on wafer-
board (paragraph 2.12).
1.07      Project components were discussed over a long period between Gov-
ernment and representatives of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program and of the
Bank. During the first-phase project, a number of technical studies were
carried out concerning the development of forest industries in Zambia
(Sandwell, 1970 and 1976; Jaakko Poyry, 1974 and 1975; Sandwell again in
1975). All these reports came more or less to the same conclusions, with
some updating and changes as regards timing, capacity, production and mar-
kets - namely that a pulp and paper mill would go into production between
1980 and 1985, the sawmilling capacity should be expanded, and some board
mill or mills would be built before 1980.
1.08      This report is based on the Government's draft Third National
Development Plan proposals, as well as the findings of a Bank Appraisal
Mission in June/July 1976, consisting of Messrs. Mbanefo and Brouard (Bank)
and Bratt and Nagle (consultants), and a Post-appraisal Mission in January
1977 consisting of Messrs. Mbanefo and Brouard.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Zambia is a land-locked central African country sharing common
borders with Angola, Zaire, Tanzania, Malawi, Mozambique, Rhodesia, Botswana
and Namibia. The total surface area is about 735,000 square kilometers,
and population is nearly 5 million. Zambia has a sub-tropical climate,
with a warm wet season from November to April, a cool dry season from May
to September, and a hot dry season from September to November; Average



-3-
annual rainfall decreases from about 1300 mm in the northwest to about 800
mm in the central region, around the capital, Lusaka. GNP per capita is
about $540 (1975) 1/ and recently the growth rate of GNP has barely exceeded
that of population (about 3% a year).
2.02      The economic and social goals of Zambia's last two national devel-
opment plans may be summarized as raising the general level of welfare; diver-
sifying the economy away from copper; narrowing the gap between urban and
rural incomes; and raising the levels of education as well as of technical
and managerial skills. Copper mining continues to dominate the economy,
accounting for more than 90% of exports and about 25% of GDP in 1975. Al-
though manufacturing, services, transport and communications have all been
growing rapidly, aggregate growth has been slow due to near stagnation in
mining and a low growth rate in agriculture.
Roles of Agriculture and Forestry 2/
2.03      Agricultural production has not adequately reflected the country's
huge and usable land resources. It has expanded by only 1.7% per annum during
the past decade, and consequently, greater reliance has had to be placed on
imports of food and agricultural raw materials. Furthermore, development
strategy has, over a long time, failed to accord a key role to agriculture.
However, Government has begun in the last 2 years to devote greater attention
to the rural areas and to measures designed to increase agricultural produc-
tivity. In 1975 and 1976, producer prices for a number of important agricul-
tural commodities were raised by amounts ranging from 20% to 56%. Govern-
ment has also sponsored a number of work programs designed to improve rural
activities. In addition, Government has, under the terms of the recent Pro-
gram Loan, assured the Bank that it would strengthen the Ministry of Rural
Development , review prices of agricultural inputs and outputs, and take any
other measures necessary to maintain incentives to production. A Working
Party within the Ministry has held several meetings to plan the implementa-
tion of these measures.
2.04      It is difficult to illustrate statistically the role of forestry
in Zambia because the official statistics group agriculture, forestry, and
fishing together, while, the output of the forestry subsector is split among
different other categories, for example manufacturing and construction. The
"iagriculture, forestry and fishing" group accounts for less than 10% of GDP.
Timber accounts for less than 0.1% of the total value of exports. Forestry
provides direct employment for more than 6,C00 Zambians. In addition, sev-
eral other industries, of which mining is probably the most important, use
sawn timber slabs and roundwood which would be imported if they were not
produced locally.
1/   This figure is taken from the 'Jorld Bank Atlas, but more recent Bank
calculations suggest a lower GNP per capita.
21   For fuller information on the sector, see Zambia, Agricultural
and Rural Sector Survey dated October 20, 1975 (Report 841a-ZA).



-4-
B. Forest Resources and Wood Utilization (Annex 1)
2.05      About 50% of the total area of Zambia is classified as forest land,
the greater part of which is opeu woodland ("miombo").  The total area of
National Forests 1/ is 67,000 km , or about 9% of the total land area.  The
natural hardwood forests have so far been providing all the country's require-
ments of fuelwood, most of its poles and some of its sawnwood, particularly
mining timber, while most of sawn timber and wood-based panels and all the
paper products are imported. Accessible productive forests are shrinking,
and Zambia's needs for industrial wood of all kinds are rising fast and are
being met increasingly from imports.
2.06      Following a decade of trials, the Government began a long-term plant-
ing program in 1962-63, including the first Bank Industrial Plantation Project
from 1969 to 1975, during which 16,000 ha (3/4 Pine and 1/4 Eucalyptus) were
planted (paragraph 1.04). About 4,000 ha are to be planted during 1976 and
1977, and a further 20,000 ha would be planted during the second project.
This would bring the total to approximately 40,000 ha (allowing for some re-
planting of clearfelled areas) by 1982. The Government intends to continue
the planting program beyond 1982, in order to double, at least, the area of
industrial plantations by the turn of the century.
2.07      Wood consumption was estimaSed in 1975 to be about 5 million m
roundwood of which some 4.5 million m was fuelwood and charcoal. Other
uses of wood include poles for building and fencing and other domestic pur-
poses. The main industrial uses of roundwood are as poles for the mining
industry (pit-props and smelter and refinery poles), transmission poles
(power, telegraph and telephone), building poles and fence posts. Sawnwood is
used in flush-door and furniture manufacture, as railway sleepers, and in the
manufacture of wooden crates and packing boxes for tobacco, fruits and vege-
tables. Most of the sawnwood is imported. When required, resawing and
planing is done in the country. Other wood products utilized in the country
include wood-based panels (plywood, blockboard, particle-board, and fibre-
board), as well as paper and paperboard, practically all of which are im-
ported.
C. Forest Based Services and Industries
Logging and Transport (Annex 5)
2.08      Although indigenous timber is logged by most forest concessionaires
and wood users, or their agents, the logging unit relevant to this Project is
1/   The forest estate or reserves within which exploitation of forest
resources is closely supervised by the Forest Department.



-5-
the Logging Section of IPD, the organization which has implemented the first
IBRD financed forestry project and would implement this one. The Logging
Section is responsible for supplying raw material to IPD's Kafubu Industrial
Timber Enterprises (KITE) which operates two sawmills and a pole treatment
plant at Chati, and another sawmill at Dola Hill. Its logging and trans-
portation operations, which reflect the current practices in Zambia generally,
consist of felling and bucking with chainsaw, bowsaws, and axes; skidding with
tractors of various sizes; loading with a front end loader or small hydraulic
crane mounted on a tractor; hauling by truck or log trailer; and unloading
with a large hydraulic crane.  In 1975,3the Logging Section felled,  ex-
tracted  and transported about 60,000 m  of roundwood, mostly in the  Chati-
Lamba division.
2.09      As of June 1976, the Logging Section employed some 120 persons, in-
cluding six supervisory staff. Its equipment (detailed in Annex 5) included
loaders, skidders, tractors, passenger vehicles, and motorcycles. All this
equipment is maintained in IPD's own workshop. Unfortunately a considerable
number of tractors and loaders are out of action at any single time as a re-
sult of frequent breakdowns and lack of spares. Project measures to improve
on this situation are in paragraphs 4.09 and 5.04.
Forest Industries
2.10      Primary forest industries in Zambia consist essentially of sawmill-
ing and the conversion of Eucalyptus roundwood to transmission poles (para-
graph 2.07) and posts. Although IPD started sawmilling of exotic species in
1970, more than 80% of all sawmilling in Zambia (i.e. all non-IPD sawmilling)
is still based on indigenous timber. Excluding pit sawing and a few small
local saws, about a dozen sawmills account for over 90% of all sawmilling
(Annex 6, Table 1) which may be grouped into three complexes, viz:
-    Sawmills operating in the Zambia teak forests of Western
Province;
-    Mining Timbers Limited Sawmills operating in the Copper-
belt; and
-    IPD's sawmills at Chati and Dola Hill.
Many sawmills in Zambia have in the past operated below capacity for various
reasons, including poor location, inappropriate equipment, poor management,
and inadequate maintenance, but the situation has improved considerably in
recent years, as obviously misplaced sawmills went out of business, and
those remaining in business have begun to operate at or near full capacity.
The only IPD sawmill operating below capacity - Dola Hill - should reach
full capacity production in a couple of years when more mature pine will
become available.



-6-
2.11      For many years, most of the transmission poles (electricity, tele-
phone, etc.) used in the country were imported. Increasingly, however,
locally-grown Eucalyptus poles are being substituted for the imports. Both
KITE and Mining Timbers Limited have facilities for the impregnation of
Eucalyptus poles with imported chemicals in order to protect the poles from
attack by termites and other kinds of infestation. This is an important
source of income for KITE, and provides employment while saving foreign
exchange.
2.12      Zambia's secondary forest industries consist of a blockboard
factory near Kitwe, a door manufacturing company, and several joinery and
furniture manufacturing enterprises all using mainly imported wood. There
are about 50 firms engaged in the timber and allied industries (excluding
sawmills), of which approximately half are furniture manufacturers and at
least another 20% are engaged in joinery manufacturing including doors and
prefabricated houses. These firms use not only Zambian timber and block-
board but also large quantities of imported blockboard, plywood, particle
board and fiberboard. In the 10 years 1964-74, Zambia importsd annually on
3
average some 10,000 3m of plywood and blockboard, about 800 m of particle-
board, some 5,200 m of fibreboard, and about 25,000 tons of paper.
These imports suggest some scope for import-substitution industries, using
the smallwood and sawmill waste in the manufacture of one or more types of
wood-based panel with or without a pulp and paper mill. For this purpose,
Government has in the past retained consultants to provide an overall affor-
estation and industrial utilization program (paragraph 1.07) which now broadly
forms the basis for current plans. In 1976 Government decided that, since
waferboard appears to be the most versatile of all the wood-based panels,
and can substitute for plywood, particleboard and fiberboard in many uses,
it would carry out production and marketing trials with a view to establish-
ing a waferboard mill in Zambia. The Bank believes that the production re-
quirements and the effective demand for waferboard in Zambia still have to
be demonstrated, especially since waferboard would be completely new to the
Zambian market. Moreover, it is important to avoid the waste of IPD forest
resources in an unviable enterprise. Accordingly, assurances were obtained
at negotiations that Government would exchange views with the Bank on results
of relevant feasibility studies before constructing a wood-based panel or
other industry utilizing wood from IPD plantations.
2.13      As discussed in paragraph 1.07, past studies have indicated that
the optimum economic benefit to Zambia would result from a program which
included a pulp and paper mill. This arises mainly because sawmilling alone
does not utilize all forest thinnings and results in about 60% waste;
wood panel industries are relatively small users of such waste. Mloreover,
past studies have shown that, by the mid-eighties, domestic demand for kraft
and industrial papers would be adequate to justify a pulp mill coming on
stream. However, despite Government's declared intention to proceed with a
pulp mill, its cost may exceed Zambia's capability to mobilize the necessary
finance in the next few years and so far no technical or commercial partner
has been firmly identified. Accordingly, the timing of the establishment



-7-
of a pulp mill is uncertain and investments in afforestation should also
be justified on the basis of sawmilling and wood-based panel manufacture
alone.
2.14      For many years, statutory responsibility for plantations rested
with the Forest Department under the Ministry of Lands, Natural Resources
and Tourism (LNRT), but the Industrial Development Corporation Limited
(INDECO) under the Ministry of Mines and Power was charged with the duty
of exploiting the forests for industrial use. In July, 1976, however, INDECO
was made answerable to LNRT for those of its subsidiaries' functions relating
to the importation of sawnwood, panel products, processing of wood products
and the like. This is a decision of considerable significance for the for-
estry and forest industries sector because it brings all forestry and re-
lated activities within the same Ministry (LNRT) for the first time. Later
in 1976 LNRT recommended that IPD should be formed into a Corporation within
LNRT. The ircorporation of IPD would have the advantage of formalizing IPD's
position as a commercial entity separate from the Forest Department, and with
capacity to operate as a legal person. This matter will be taken up again in
Chapter V dealing with Project Organization and Management.
D. Government Forest Services
2.15      Overall responsibility for the formulation of forest policy, forest
administration and management rests with the Forest Department (FD), within
the Ministry of Lands, Natural Resources and Tourism, with headquarters in
Lusaka (Chart). In 1975 IPD was employing a total staff of 134, of whom 13
were professional or senior officers, and a total labor force of just over
1,000, in all its activities, including afforestation, construction and
road work, as well as forest exploitation (logging and transport), wood
processing and marketing. Apart from his administrative duties, the Director
of IPD (who also directed the IBRD-financed project) supervises the accounts,
engineering and stores section and the various management services (personnel,
planning, surveys, mensuration and worker training), as well as the planta-
tions, logging, production and marketing sections. Research, forest products,
working plans and surveys, and training (mainly technical) are all specialized
divisions of the Forest Department. The Chief Conservator of Forests is
advised by a forest economist. The provincial forest offices are responsible
for the territorial administration of the FD, the management of indigenous
forests, and regional and local supply forest plantations.
Water and Land Conservation Measure3
2016      Water and land conservat -n in Zambia is the responsibility of
several Ministries and Departments, out unfortunately lack of cooperation
between these bodies often makes conservation measures difficult or ineffec-
tive. For instance, the water catchment areas should be more actively pro-
tected, particularly in vulnerable areas such as the headwaters of the



important Kafue river. Legislation to protect such land permanently from
human settlement is contained in the National Resources Act but is not
effectively monitored. Similarly, there has not been much concern for
soil conservation, mainly because there is no population pressure on the
whole, no great competition for land, and therefore no great danger of soil
erosion so far. However, foresters are very conscious of these problems and
take all necessary precautions on land under their control.
Forestry Education and Training
2.17      Forestry education and training in Zambia so far take place at
the technical and worker levels only. Professionals graduate overseas and
the number of qualified Zambian professional foresters is still very small
(7 in 1976). It is likely that professionals will continue to qualify
abroad within the foreseeable future. The training of the secretarial,
management and clerical personnel is undertaken both in Zambia and abroad,
but is outside the scope of forestry education proper.
2.18      The Zambia Forest College at Mukera on the Copperbelt gives 2-
year Forester (higher) and 2-year Forest Ranger (lower) courses, as well
as refresher courses for all the technical grades. These courses include
theoretical and practical instruction and tours, and are designed to provide
the technical staff with the basic training required to carry out their work
satisfactorily. In each grade, about 8-10 graduates are produced annually,
which is sufficient for Zambia's needs. IPD has a Forest Workers Training
Center at Chati, where annually some 300 workers of all categories receive
training lasting from a few days to 6 weeks on a wide range of technical
subjects.
Forest Pests and Diseases
2.19      So far Pines have been remarkably free from pests and diseases.
Nursery techniques are so well developed that losses caused by "damping off"
fungi are minimal, and there is no problem of mycorrhiza. Scattered dieback
does occur, probably caused by some pathogenic fungi, but this is not a
problem.
2.20      Eucalyptus, on the other hand, particularly E. grandis, are liable
to attack by both insects and fungi. The Eucalyptus Longhorn Bark Beetles
(Phoracantha spp.) may cause serious losses in some Eucalyptus plantations
at Chati, to such an extent that certain areas are no longer planted or re-
planted with Eucalyptus. Mostly pole crops are affected. Various control
measures have been tried, but so far with little or no success. Research
is continuing in this field.  Concern has also been expressed about the
incidence of heart-rot in the lower part of the stem of E. grandis, but this
disease does not appear to be serious, especially in view of the relatively
short timber rotation adopted for this species (12 years).



-9-
Forest Research, Experimentation and Trials
2.21      Research is divided into Forest Research proper and Forest Products
Research. The Forest Research Division is divided into 3 sections. The
Silvicultural Section, whose work is divided into indigenous species and
exotic species, is responsible for applied research and for service work on
forest ecology and botany, forest sites, silviculture, forest entomology,
forest pathology, seed selection and supply, and mensuration; this section has
laboratories and a herbarium in Kitwe and also manages the experimental areas
throughout Zambia. The Tree Improvement Section is responsible for applied
research and service work on tree genetics and tree improvement; and this
section has laboratories at Riverside and manages seed orchards and stands and
field experiments. The Forest Products Research and Development Division,
with its Center at Kitwe, is responsible for applied research and service work
on wood anatomy, timber technology, wood utilization, protection of timber and
timber development. It is also responsible for certain aspects of training in
wood utilization.
III. THE INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROGRAM
A. Origin, Concept and Objectives
3.01      In 1949, the Forest Department started growing Pines on the
Copperbelt, at first on an experimental scale near Ndola, and then on an
increasingly larger scale around Ndola and west of Kitwe. The Government
decided to embark on a long-term industrial forestry program on the Copper-
belt (Annex 13) and, in order to implement this program, an Indus-
trial Plantations Division of the Forest Department was created in 1962. In
the sixties, Eucalypts were also tried and from 1967 onwards were planted on
a large scale. The main species were P. kesiya for Pines and E. grandis for
Eucalypts. The target was the planting of 40,000 ha by 1993, of which approx-
imately 3/4 would be Pine and 1/4 Eucalyptus. The Government is now consid-
ering increasing the target to at least 80,000 ha before the turn of the cen-
tury. Two new species have also been planted on a fairly large scale lately:
Pinus oocarpa and Eucalyptus cloeziana. The objectives of this planting pro-
gram are to supply:
(a) most of Zambia's needs in sawn lumber, using mainly
Pine when Pine sawlogs become available in sufficient
quantity;
(b) smallwood and sawmill waste, both of Pine and Eucalyptus,
for a pulp and paper mill and for various board mills;
(c) poles (Eucalyptus) of all kinds for smelting, telephone
transmission and other uses.



- 10 -
By the year 2000, it is believed that most of these needs can be met from
domestic supplies, provided the planting program is implemented. Regarding
sawn lumber, however, it is expected that some imports will still be required
to supplement domestic production.
B. Phase I Project
General Description
3.02      The Project was part of the Zambian Government's Forest Develop-
ment Program and provided for the annual planting of 1,000 ha (2500 acres)
each of Pine (mainly P. kesiya) and Eucalyptus (mainly E. grandis) over an
8-year period (1969-1976).  The Pine would be grown on a 30-yeas rotation at
a mean annual volume increment rate (MAI) of approximately 17 m /ha, while
the Eucalyptus would be grown on a 12-year rotation with an MAI of 18 m /ha.
It was anticipated that over 90% of the Pine production and about half of the
Eucalyptus production would be used for sawlogs and construction timber, the
balance being for poles of various kinds. Total project cost was estimated
at about K 8 million (US$ 11.1 million at the 1968 rate of exchange), of
which an IBRD loan financed US$5.3 million, the rest being financed by Zambia
Government. A PCR dealing with this Project is currently under preparation.
Implementation Experience
3.03      The Project was managed by the Industrial Plantations Division (IPD)
of the Forest Department in the Ministry of Land Natural Resources and Tourism,
which became virtually independent and entirely self-accounting. The total
plantation target of 16,000 ha was reached in 7 years instead of 8, but, based
on a re-assessment of wood requirements, the ratio of Pine to Eucalyptus was
72:28 instead of 50:50. The 3mean annual increment (MAI) of P. kesiya is now
considered to be around 14 m ha (3 m less) after due illowances for losses,
but that of E. grandis is probably around 25 m /ha (7 m more). The technical
changes between Pine and Eucalyptus were made with the Bank's agreement and
are to Zambia's advantage. However, the Government rejected a recommenda-
tion of the Bank concerning the creation of a Forest Industries Board in
1970 because it did not share the Bank's judgment that such a Board was
necessary. Total Project cost amounted to K 15.0 million as against the
appraisal estimates of about K 8 million, equivalent to a cost overrun of
90% (86% for buildings, roads and equipment, and 91% for other afforestation
costs). The main reasons for cost overrun were inflation, which rose steadily
by about 5-8% p.a. at first and more sharply (about 15% p.a. towards the end
of the Project), and which was not covered by the provision for price contin-
gencies in appraisal estimates. However, sawn timber prices have increased
at about the same rate, with the result that financial and economic returns
projected at appraisal are still likely to be achieved (paragraph 1.04). On
the whole, the Project has been successful under IPD management. However, in-
sufficient attention was given to the training of senior Zambian staff, and
consequently, greater attention is being given to training in this Project.



- 11 -
Lessons from Phase I Project
3.04      Most of the lessons are implicit in the experience described in
paragraph 3.03. The techniques of industrial forestry, logging and sawmill-
ing are now fairly well established and so is IPD's capacity to manage these
activities. The main issue that plagued the First Project all along and
slowed down decision-making regarding objectives and components of the
Second Project was the lack of coordination and integrated development in
forest industries in Zambia. At the root of the conflicts was the division
of responsibility for plantation development and exploitation between two
.Ministries (paragraph 2.14) without an adequate coordinating mechanism. It
is essential that the planning and development of afforestation and all for-
est industries be fully coordinated, so that the supply of raw materials may
be assured and the future demands for wood-derived products may be met (para-
graphs 2.14 and 5.03). This problem is expected to be considerably minimized
in this Project because of the reorganization described in paragraph 2.14.
C. The Project Area
3.05      The Project area (Map No.IBRD 12526) is situated on the Copperbelt
around the towns of Ndola and Kitwe, and is generally the same as the area
chosen for the First Project, and for the same reasons (paragraph 3.06). In
fact, the new plantations would be merely extensions of the existing planta-
tions. There are two main blocks: the first, which is north and west of
Ndola and is generally extending towards Kitwe (this is mostly under Pine);
and the second which is located some 20-50 km west of Kitwe, is centered
around Chati, with a small forest industrial complex (KITE), and is extending
mainly north and south (most of the Eucalyptus is planted here, though there
is also some Pine).
3.06      Forest plantations are only created inside National Forests.  There
is, therefore, no land tenure problem. Furthermore, with the abundant supply
of other arable land in the area, the opportunity cost of the land is low.
The plantations are on good soils, which are readily available on the Copper-
belt.  Over half a million ha of land, or almost 20% of the total area of the
Copperbelt Province, are reserved under the Forests Act, of which less than
20,000 ha would be planted under the Project.  Of some 300,000 ha sampled,
about 90,000 ha (30%) have been found suitable for tree-planting. The land
is generally flat, undulating very gently and varying in altitude from about
1500 m in the north to about 1200 m in the south.  Average annual rainfall
in the Project area is about 1200-1300 mmn falling mainly from late October
to early April.  Mean temperatures are 15 C in winter and 23 C in summer.
Although violent thunderstorms and torrential rains are common during the
wettest months, strong winds are raje, and there are only about 3 nights of
frost a year on the average. In short, conditions inside the Project area
are excellent for growing Pines and Eucalyptus.
3.07      There is no need within the foreseeable future to plant fuelwood
on the Copperbelt, as large areas of "miombo" woodland are being clearfelled
annually for afforestation, and enough firewood and charcoal should be



- 12 -
obtained from these areas to supply all the needs of the Copperbelt. This
region also contains the greatest concentration of population, industrial
development and wealth, hence of potential markets. The area is well served
by public roads, forest roads and tracks, and a railway line.
3.08       A site on the banks of the Kafue River, along the Kitwe/Ndola road
(see Map) has been suggested for the proposed pulp and paper mill and forest
industries complex. However, Government would like the technical partners
for the proposed pulpmill to be fully associated with the ultimate choice,
since there are effluent disposal, environmental and other factors to be
taken into account. Once the choice of a site has been settled, it would
be desirable to locate all future sawmills, the pulp and paper mill, and
wood-based panel manufacture within the same complex, in order to minimize
wood transport costs and fully utilize the infrastructure within the
complex. In the meantime, the Government decision to site the Project saw-
mill at Chati has been accepted because it is nearest the immediately avail-
able roundwood source and there is already sufficient infrastructure - offi-
cial buildings, roads, water and electricity - as well as labor and scarce
managerial talent there which can be utilized by the Sew sawmill.  Further-
more, the timing of the next sawmill (about 120,000 m roundwood capacity
per year starting around 1982) would coincide with that of the proposed pulp
and paper mill and would, therefore, be the first sawmill to be located in
the new industrial complex.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01       The Project would, during the 5 years 1978 through 1982, continue
IPD's long-term planting and maintenance program, expand IPD's logging and
sawmilling capacity, and conduct studies designed to lead to more economical
and efficient land clearing and charcoal production. The Project would
provide for:
(a) about 3,500 ha of new plantations annually, of which
about 3,000 ha would be Pine and about 500 ha Eucalyptus
(totals for the Project period: Pine 15,000 ha; Eucalyptus
2,500 ha);
(b) replanting annually with Eucalyptus of approximately
400 ha of clearfelled plantations (total for the Proj-
ect period:  2,000 ha);
(c) maintenance of (a) and (b), together with all existing
IPD plantations;
(d) doubling of IPD's lSgging and transportation capacity
from about 60,000 m to about 120,000 m roundwood
per year;



- 13 -
(e) construcSion and equipment of a sawmill of about
40,000 m a year sawnwood capacity;
(f) staff training and fellowships to facilitate (a) to
(e) above; and
(g) research, experimentation and studies designed to
improve land clearing, and charcoal production methods.
Plantation maintenance costs have been capitalized in accordance with normal
plantation practice and included in Project costs for the plantation develop-
ment period. All other operating costs are excluded from Project costs. The
Project would be implemented by IPD.
B. Detailed Features
Afforestation, Reforestation and Maintenance (Annex 2)
4.02      The Project would provide for equipment, labor and materials for
new plantings as well as for maintenance of IPD's existing and proposed
plantations. The Project target for new planting is 3,500 ha a year, of which
about 3,000 ha would be Pine and about 500 ha Eucalyptus. In addition, an
average of 400 ha of clearfelled plantations would be replanted with Eucal-
yptus annually. This total target is within the means of IPD, which has
by now acquired enough experience of large-scale planting, and regularly
exceeded planting targets during the first phase project. The detailed
planting and replanting would be as follows:
Area (ha)
Eucalyptus
Year            Pine (new)        New Plantations          Replanting       Total
1              3,000                  500                   200            3,700
2              3,000                  500                   300            3,800
3              3,000                  500                   400            3,900
4              3,000                  500                   500            4,100
5              3,000                  500                   600            4,000
Total          15,000                2,500                 2,000           19,500
It is assumed that (a) about 60% of the Pine would be Pinus kesiva and
40% P. oocarpa and other species; (b) about 2/3 of the Eucalyptus would be
E. grandis and 1/3 E. cloeziana and other species. These proportions ensure
good average yields, while providing sci:e diversification, as well as suffi-
cient supplies of wood for specific purpases (e.g. E. cloeziana for poles).



- 14 -
Establishment of Plantations
4.03      "Miombo" woodland would be cleared prior to planting, except in
the case of replanting after clearfelling. The soil would then be prepared
by disc-harrowing.  Both Pine and Eucalyptus would be raised in polythene
tubes. The planting distances would be 2m70 x 2m70 (1370 plants per ha) for
Pine and 3m60 x 3m60 (770 plants per ha) for Eucalyptus. Borate would be
applied to Eucalyptus plantations at the time of planting, but no fertilizers
would be used for Pine. Very intensive weeding would be required during the
first 3 years for Pine, but for 1-2 years only for Eucalyptus.
Maintenance of Plantations
4.04      Pine would be pruned at 5, 8 and 11 years, thinned at 11, 14 and 19
years, and clearfelled at 25 years. Eucalyptus would be pruned at about 2
years, thinned at 5 and 8 years, and clearfelled at 12 years.
Road Construction and Maintenance
4.05      The required road density has been estimated at 10 km of access
roads (total 175 km), 3 km of "logging" roads (total 53 km) and 31 km (total
543 km) of compartment roads per 1000 ha of new plantations. Road maintenance
is estimated at 10% of capital costs per annum for all categories of roads,
and total base line road construction and maintenance cost is estimated at
K 1.2 million.
Fire Protection
4.06      The fire hazard is high on the Copperbelt, particularly in Pine
plantations 5 to 8 years old. External firebreaks 15 m wide would be con-
structed and maintained around all plantations. Internal roads would be
used as firebreaks, and 20 m strips would be maintained on either side of
main roads. The main fire protection measure would be controlled burning
of firebreaks and plantations while there is a serious fire hazard. Finally,
fire control would involve maintaining fire-fighting vehicles, equipment and
fire towers, as well as manning fire crews. Total baseline cost for fire
protection is estimated at K 0.9 million.
Project Management
4.07      Provision would be made for all IPD personnel during the planta-
tion development period. The staff would include a Director, a Financial
Controller, 3 Conservators, 3 Auditors and Senior Accountants, 11 Engineers,
Managers and Senior Forest Officers, and technical, clerical and an account-
ing supporting staff. Provision is included for salaries and all the usual
civil service allowances. Provision would also be made for the cost of all
surveys and for the running of the IPD Training Center. Project admipistra-
tion and overhead expenses (baseline) are estimated at K 2.4 million. These
costs exclude logging,sawmilling, and other operating costs which shoijld be
recovered from annual revenues.



- 15 -
Buildings and Housing
4.08      Additional housing would be provided for IPD staff and workers as
follows:  12 low density, 15 medium density and 350 high density houses, as
well as 39 ablution blocks and the supply of electricity and water. Provi-
sion would also be included for normal building maintenance. Total baseline
costs of house construction and maintenance are estimated at K 2.7 million.
Equipment and Vehicles
.4.09      The Project would require investment in equipment for afforestation
(land clearing, soil preparation, transport of labor and materials, and all
fire protection measures), road construction and maintenance, construction
of buildings, for workshops and garages, and for administration (mainly vehi-
cles). This equipment would include 4 bull-dozers, 2 graders, 5 tractors and
12 trailers, various trucks and vans, fire tenders, pick-up vehicles, person-
nel vehicles, motor cycles, rotary slashers, disc-harrows, ploughs, pumps,
telephone installations, wireless sets, etc. (details in Annex 2). Provision
would also be made for tools, office and workshop equipment and an adequate
supply of essential spare parts. The Project workshops would be responsible
for the repair and maintenance of Project vehicles and equipment. Early pro-
curement of spares has been difficult in the past. Accordingly, a substan-
tial stock of frequently-required spares would be ordered with each equip-
ment, and direct foreign payment would be made wherever appropriate, to
avoid delays usually associated with local procurement of spares. Moreover,
the training of mechanics and equipment maintenance staff would be intensi-
fied (paragraph 4.12).
Logging and Transport (Annex 5)
4.10      The Project provides for the logging and transport capacity of
IPD's Logging Section to be doubled through the phased acquisition of 18 small
to medium sized tractors, 4 small hydraulic tractor-mounted loaders, 12 log-
ging trucks of 15-ton 3and 2 of 35-ton capacity, 2 tippers of the dump truck
variety, each of 10 m capacity, two 5-ton trucks and a small grader, 2
four-wheel drive transporters and 3 motor-cycles. There would be an expansion
of some 35% in the number of logging employees, as well as other increases in
operating costs, but these are expected to be fully recovered annually from
sales of IPD sawntimber, poles and other products.
Sawmill (Annex 6)
4.11    q The Project includes a new sawmill capable of producing abojt
20,000 m- sawnwood annually on a single shift of 8 hours, or 40,000 m on a
double shift. The sawmill would be located at Chati - the present home of
Kafubu Industrial Timber Enterprises (KTTE) - to saw mainly IPD's Eucalyptus
logs in the first instance, and later, mainly Pine starting from about 1982.
The Project provides for the cost of a sawmill building with a concrete slab,
and all costs of importing, transporting to Chati, and installing the sawmill
and ancillary equipment.



- 1.6 -
Staff Training and Fellowships
4.12      The Project would provide for the training costs of Zambians re-
quired to replace expatriate staff on short-term contracts now heading many
of the units and sections in IPD, for example the accounts, engineering, log-
ging, sawmilling and marketing sections. The training costs could be in the
form of travel expenses, tuition, allowances and other living costs in Zambia
or abroad. The training costs reimbursable under this Project would be only
for courses or fellowships agreed in advance from time to time between the
Government and the Bank. Government and the Bank agreed during negotiations
a training program for the project period (Annex 13 Tables 3 and 4). Govern-
ment also agreed to intensify the local training of mechanics and artisans to
ensure an adequate supply of this class of workers for IPD.
Trials on Land Clearing and Charcoal Production (Annex 4)
4.13      Land-clearing operations as currently practiced on the Copperbelt
prior to tree planting are extremely costly and wasteful in the sense that,
in a country in which fuelwood and charcoal are the chief source of fuel,
the trees pulled down by bulldozers are not used for these purposes but are
simply burnt on the spot. At the same time, experiments have been going on
for several years in an effort to facilitate the efficient production of
charcoal used by the bulk of the population. With the twin objectives of
making land clearing less wasteful and furthering the development of effi-
cient charcoal production, the Project would provide about K 230,000 for
equipment, materials, labour, supervision, and 6 man-months of consultancy,
to be spent on land clearing and charcoal production trials.
Environmental Factors
4.14      The Proiect is expected to be neutral in its environmental impact.
The new plantations would help to preserve the water catchment and prevent
soil erosion, but since indigenous forests (which were themselves quite
adequate for these purposes) would have to be removed to plant the new trees,
there is really no incremental benefit, nor any adverse effects from this
source. Similarly the other components of the Project neither improve nor
worsen the environment.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.15      As IPD is a commercial-type organization the evaluation of its
Project activities would normally entail mainly financial and economic analy-
ses based on its financial and other records. Accordingly, no specific pro-
vision is included in the Project for monitoring and evaluation, because IPD,
a self-accounting and well-managed unit, already maintains records adequate
for this purpose. However, assurances were obtained during negotiations that
Government would provide the Bank with an Evaluation Report on the Project
3 months after the last disbursement. Suggestions designed to make these
records even more useful for the purposes of management control and evaluation
are in paragraph 4.20.



- 17 -
C. Project C)sts (Annex 8)
4.16      The Project is estimated to cost K 27.5 million (US$34.5 million), of
which K 13.3 million (US$16.8 million) would be in foreign exchange. Project
costs are summarized as follows:
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Foreign
Exchange
-----Kwacha '000-----   -----------US$ '000---
Plantation Develop-
ment                   8,600   6,300   14,900  10,700  7,900  18,600    42
Logging and Transport    100   1,100    1,200         100  1,400   1,500    93
Sawmilling                 700   1.500    2,200       900  2,000   2,900    69
Staff Training and
Fellowships               20       80      100       30    100      130    77
Land Clearing and
Charcoal Produc-
tion Trials              200     100       300      270    100      370    27
Total Base Costs         9,620   9,080   18,700  12,000 11,500  23,500    49
Physical
Contingencies         1,000     900    1,900   1,200  1,200   2,400    50
Price
Contingencies        3,600   3,300    6,900   4,500  4,100   8,600    48
Total Costs including
Contingencies         14,220  13,280   27,500  17,700 16,800  34,500    49
Project base costs, which do not include any duties or taxes, are estimated
as of March 1977. A physical contingency of 10% has been added on all costs,
and starting from April 1977, price contingencies totalling about 35% of
baseline costs have been calculated as follows: - equipment and vehicles 7.5%
a year in 1977 to 1979 and 7% thereafte:; civil works 9% a year (1980 and
after, 8%); all other costs 12% a year.



- 18 -
D. Financing
4.17      The Project would be financed as follows:
US$ million       %
Bank                                        16.8         49
Commonwealth Development Corporation         6.2         18
Government                                  11.5         33
34.5       100
Bank financing (100% of the foreign exchange costs) would be in the form of
a loan for 20 years including 4 1/2 years of grace. The Commonwealth Devel-
opment Corporation (CDC) has agreed in principle to contribute the Sterling
equivalent of K 5 million (US$6.2 million) to Project financing. Its par-
ticipation and the amount and terms thereof are still subject to agreement
between it and Zambia Government. Government is expected to allocate to
the Project out of its budget sufficient sums to meet whatever part of the
Project cost is not covered by the other two financial sources. Part of
Government's financial contribution is expected to come from IPD revenues.
However, the question of how much IPD will be able to contribute is closely
related to IPD's legal and corporate status, and whether Government treats
its previous financing of IPD operations as equity in a new company or as
loans imposing amortization obligations on IPD. In these circumstances,
the concept of an IPD cash flow statement is not very meaningful unless it
is limited to income and expenditure on logging and sawmilling and cash
surpluses or deficits arising from these trading activities (Annex 13,
Table 2). It would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan that
the Zambian Treasury and IPD would have entered into arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank for passing on the Bank loan to IPD.
E. Procurement
4.18      Sawmilling and other heavy equipment, tractors, and motor vehicles
(about US$11 million including contingencies) would be subject to interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines, and should
be bulked whenever possible. In accordance with current IPD practice, fuel,
tools, spares, stores (about US$5.5 million, including contingencies), equip-
ment, vehicles and other items in contracts of US$100,000 or less, as well as
contracts for land clearing (Us$2 million, including contingencies), would be
purchased or awarded in accordance with Government procedures, which are
satisfactory. Land clearing for afforestation would continue to be done by
local contractors but would be gradually taken over by IPD during the Project.
This transfer has been necessitated by the decline in competition and high
prices charged by the remaining private contracting capacity. Road and other
construction and maintenance, as well as the sawmill building, would be
carried out by competitive bidding advertised locally or by IPD itself if



- 19 -
this proves less expensive. These contracts are too small and scattered to
attract foreign bids. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
these procurement requirements would be observed.
F. Disbursement (Annex 9)
4.19      The Bank loan, which would finance only foreign exchange costs,
would be disbursed against 100% of foreign expenditures on all Project
components, or 60% of the total cost of vehicles and equipment and 40% of
civil work contracts and force account. Disbursements against equipment,
vehicles, civil work contracts and consultancies would be fully documented.
All other disbursements would be made against certificates of expenditure
certified by both the (IPD) Project Director and Project Financial Controller,
the documentation of which would not be submitted to the Bank but retained
for review during Bank/CDC supervisions. Any part of the Bank loan remaining
undisbursed after Project completion would be used in a manner to be mutually
agreed between the Government and the Bank.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.20      IPD already operates an efficient accounting system and its annual
Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Accounts are regularly audited by a well
known international firm of Chartered Accountants. During the Project period,
it would be necessary to refine the accounting system so as to reveal clearly
the profitability or otherwise of each project component, and, particularly,
the sawmilling and logging activities. This would involve maintaining sepa-
rate cost accounts as well as full Profit and Loss Accounts for these two
Project components. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that such
separate accounts would be maintained, that IPD would continue to maintain
accurate accounts conforming with internationally-recognized standards, to
have its annual accounts audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank, and to forward such audited accounts to the Bank not later than 6 months
following the year to which they relate.
4.21      Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that IPD would
continue to send quarterly and annual reports acceptable to the Bank on Proj-
ect activities, not later than three months after the end of the quarter and
not later than six months after the end of the year, to which such reports
relate.
V. ORGANIZATION AND XANASEMENT (Chart No. 16566)
5.01      Responsibility for the Project would rest with the Ministry of Lands,
Natural Resources, and Tourism (LNRT) which has responsibility for plantation



- 20 -
development and wood processing industries. Within the Mlinistry, the Project
would be implemented by the Industrial Plantations Division (IPD) of the For-
est Department.
5.02      IPD is an efficient self-accounting division which succesfully imple-
mented the Phase I IBRD-financed Industrial Forestry Project. It is run on
commercial lines at Ndola, and owns the Kafubu Industrial Timber Enterprises
at Chati near Kitwe, where it carries out sawmilling, as well as production
of transmission poles, purlins, and pre-fabricated houses. It also owns and
operates a new sawmill at Dola Hill. IPD has sections, each headed by a well
qualified and experienced professional, dealing with plantations, accounts,
administration, production, marketing, logging, and engineering. Practically
all the components of this Project fall within activity fields in which IPD
has been successfully engaged for the last 8 years or more. Annex 13 gives
details of IPD and its past performance.
5.03      Two aspects of Project organization and management still give cause
for concern, namely, how to ensure availability and continuity of management
staff in a situation in which most of the Section Chiefs are foreigners on
short-term contracts from bilateral donor agencies and Governments; and
secondly, what will happen to IPD and its efficiency if a new forest indus-
tries organization is formed (paragraph 2.14).
5.04      At present (March 1977) IPD is well-staffed, except in the tech-
nical fields of mechanical engineering and equipment maintenance where two
senior posts (mechanical engineer and engineer) have been kept vacant because
the salaries have been too low to attract and hold qualified staff. All IPD
posts are subject to Civil Service hiring and grading practices (which would
not necessarily apply if IPD were incorporated). IPD has been trying to
persuade the appropriate authorities to upgrade these two posts from GPS8 to
S7, and applications from prospective employees are being held pending this
upgrading. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these two posts
would be filled not later than December 31, 1977.
5.05      With regard to other senior posts, the problem is one of ensuring
continuity. The following key posts have been identified (in addition to
the 2 discussed above):



- 21 -
Nationality of       Remaining Period
Position                          Present Incumbent   of Current Contract
Director of IPD                       Zambian               Indefinite
Financial Controller                  Expatriate            2 years
Conservator in charge of              Zambian               Indefinite
Management Services
Conservator in charge of              Expatriate            Less than
Plantations                                               12 months
Logging Officer                       Expatriate            6 months
Sawmill Production Manager            Expatriate            6 months
Marketing Manager                     Expatriate             1 month
The Financial Controller, who was recruited specially for the Project, is
replaced automatically by the Ministry of Finance under a long-term arrange-
ment. The Conservator in charge of plantations might be difficult to replace,
but his section might be re-organized and the responsibililities shared by
existing Zambian foresters. In addition at least 7 more Zambian foresters are
expected to graduate in 1977. The Logging Officer would be replaced by the
Finnish Government under an aid agreement. The Sawmill Production MIanager
would be replaced by SIDA under a long-term agreement, while the lIarketing
Officer is likely to be replaced by a Zambian. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that successor appointments to the positions listed in
this paragraph would be made promptly and after consultation with the Bank,
and that the appointees would be qualified and experienced.
5.06      As indicated in paragraph 2.14, the Bank agrees with LNRT's recom-
mendation that IPD should be incorporated, as this would establish IPD's
status as a legal person able to enter into legally-binding and enforceable
contracts with Government and others (including agreements for on-lending of
Project funds). It would also facilitate a clear separation of IPD's activi-
ties from those of the Forest Department and thus a clearer assessment of
the commercial viability of IPD and its various activities. Accordingly,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  IPD would be incorporated not later than December 31,
1978.
(b)  Government would agree witt. the Bank prior to
incorporation:
(i) proposed contents of the new company's charter,
memorandum and articles of association, or other
enabling legislation,



- 22 -
(ii) the proposed capital structure of the company, and
(iii) status of IPD's outstanding loans and proposed lending
of project funds, including a capital repayment schedule;
(c)  The portion of IBRD funds which the Government and the Bank
agree to treat as a loan to IPD (rather than equity) at such
time of incorporation would be on-lent at a rate not less
than the Bank's lending rate to Government;
(d) Pending the above steps, IPD would implement the Project;
also IPD and any successor organization would continue to be
managed as a self-accounting and efficient institution with
production and pricing policies based on complete cost
recovery.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Yields and Production (Annexes 2 and 10)
6.01      Allowing for normal losses at various Stages of plantation activity,
the sean annual increment is expected to be 13 m /ha for Pinus kesiya and
11 m /ha for other, pines on a 25-year rotatiol.  For Eucalyptus, it is ex-
pected to be 25 m /ha for E. grandis and 15 m /ha for other Eucalyptus spe-
cies on a 12-year rotation. Sawlogs would represent about 66% of the total
volume of Pines, while sawlogs and large poles would represent about 60% of
the total volume of Eucalyptus products. The remaining volume would repre-
sent smallwood which, at the moment is largely wasted, but which would be
the basic raw material in any future pulp and paper mill or other secondary
wood industries. Under these assumptions, wood production is expected to
increase as indicated below:



- 23 -
Production from Total Afforestation         Production from Phase II
Program Dating Back to 1949       3      Afforestation Alone
-----------------------------'000 m  ---------------------------
Large                                Large
Sawlogs   Poles   Smallwood          Sawlogs   Poles    Smallwood
1977         87        19        104                -         -           -
1978         99        27        116                -         -           -
1979        139        27        150                -         -           -
1980        139        27        125                -         -           -
1985        274        37        231               16        14          69
1990        420        39        325              147        23         130
1995        467         -        292              102         -          84
2000        465         -        317              108         -          30
2005        336         -         84              336         -          84
6.02      Investments proposed for this Project would directly increase IPD's
3
logging capacity by about 60,000 m roundwood per year, and also help to
sustain the pre-existing logging capacity of the same amount through replace-
ment of worn-out equipment.   he Project would also invohve the installation
of a new sawmill of 120,000 m roundwood (about 40,000 m sawn timber) double
shift capacity a year. As no logs would be available from Project planting
until about 1985, the Project sawmill would process wood already existing 3
before this Project. By 1990 total sawmilling capacity of about 500,000 m
roundwood would be required to saw all the wood from all plantations existing
and planned through 1982. As the sawmill machinery is expected to last 15
years, the Project (1978) sawmill would need to be replaced in 1993, and the
1982 sawmill in 1997. These assumptions are based on sound sawmill mainte-
nance and operation expected to result from this Project. If the sawmill
is not well-maintained its economic life is likely to be considerably less
than 15 years. Neither the sawmills required after 1978 nor any replace-
ment sawmill is included in this Project. Furthermore, if, as is likely,
IPD plants more trees after the end of this Project (1982), it would require
even more sawmilling capacity than indicated here.
6.03      The present sawnwood to roundwood ratio in the existing IPD saw-
mills is about 35%. With improved equipment and better experienced staff, the
ratio should increase to 40%-45%. However, this anticipated improvement is
uncertain and has therefore not been taken into account in calculating Project
benefits or estimates of production.
6.04      At present, about 27% of IPD's sawn timber production is sold to
the construction industry (scaffolding, etc.), 15% to the furniture trade,
38% to the blockboard factory, 15% tc tie door manufacturin industry, and
5% to other users. In addition, IPD supplied about 4,000 m of transmission
poles to the Zambia Electricity Supply orporation and the Posts and Tele-
graphs Corporation in 1975. IPD's sales of timber have risen sharply in
recent years, as illustrated below:



- 24 -
1973    1974    1975    1976 (estimated)
----------'000 Kwacha--------------
Sawnwood:
Eucalyptus  )                              410           444
Pine         )            156      461     144            156
Purlins                    49       75     108             96
Transmission and
Telephone Poles               178      155      264           360
Small Poles                   105      184      300           360
Otlhers                       158      110      165           216
646     985   1,391          1,632
Generally, IPD has had no difficulty in selling its good timber; its problem
has been to produce good quality timber from young thinnings.  So great is
the unsatisfied demand for Zambian timber that IPD is able to saw and sell
processed timber which in many countries would be unsaleable on quality
grounds.
6.05      Projections of national wood demand and IPD supply (Annex 1) may
be summarized as follows:
Volume '000 m  Roundwood Equivalent
1975     1980      1990      2000
National Demand
Fuelwood                           4,500    5,000    6,000    7,000
Sawnwood                              250      325       530       860
Poles                                  70        90      145       235
Other (paper and wood-
based panels)                       200      235       415       675
IPD Production
Sawnwood                               80      135       420       465
Poles                                  25        30       40        45
Smallwood and sawmill waste           100       195      515       700
The above figures show that IPD's key output is going to be sawnwood of which
IPD produced about 30% of the national consumption in 1975. IPD's proportion
is likely to go up to some 50% in the year 2000, by which time the output from
the rapidly diminishing and virtually irreplaceable "miombo" wosdlands would
be even less than 170,000 m  sawnwood (250,000 m  less 80,000 m  produced by



- 25 -
IPD) those woodlands contributed in 1975.  Even if the 5awlog output from the
indigenous forests were to remain constant It 170,000 m , it would still be
necessary to import annually some 225,000 m of sawlogs by the year 2000,
after allowing for the output from this Project.
6.06      In theory it is possible to iiport Pine sawn timber from Kenya at a
landed price of approximately K 2 per m above the K 126 currently charged by
IPD. However, imports of sawn timber or sawlogs from surrounding countries
where production costs may be lower than in Zambia are, in practice, not as
frequent as might be expected, because overland transport has not been easy
to arrange in the past, space on the new Tanzam Railway is difficult to
obtain, and the importers (who are generally in the private sector) have
*tended to look to Europe and North America - their traditional sources and
home bases - for imports rather than to the surrounding African countries.
Coniferous lumber from Europe and North America cost considerably more than
IPD's product and cater for the luxury section of the sawn wood market. There
are also no known alternative sources of Eucalyptus logs or poles. In any
case, as long as IPD's prices continue to be below the landed prices of wood
from other countries, it is likely to continue to sell all the sawnwood and
poles it can produce. As regards the proposed pulp and paper mill, produc-
tion is expected to be entirely for the domestic market which is protected
by high transport costs as discussed above. The output is also expected
to consist of kraft and other commercial grade papers which are different
from types of paper planned for manufacture in most of the surrounding coun-
tries.
6.07      In estimating its costs of production, IPD values its wood on a
historical rather than a replacement cost basis. In its pricing policy,
however, IPD, which is very commercially oriented, sells its sawn timber
and other finished products at the highest prices it can obtain. It,
therefore, does not really lose any money as a result of its historical
costing system. Furthermore, with IPD owning both the plantation and the
processing facilities, there is no question of the plantation owner losing
money compared with the processor. Nevertheless, to ensure that IPD would
always recover enough money to replant felled trees and to assess the
profitability of wood processing as distinct from plantation development
(paragraph 4.20), it is recommended that IPD should cost its trees on
a replacement cost basis.  The IPD cur ent stumpage for fuil-sized logs based on
historical cost is estimated at K 10/m  for Pine and K 5/m  for Eucalyptus.
Our calculations indicate that replacement cost stumpage for full-sized logs,
and designed to 3recover all plantation cosSs with interest at 10% a year,
would be K 22/m  for Pine and K 8 - K 13/m  for Eucalyptus (Annex 3).  If
the proposed pulp and paper mill is built, slightly lower stumpages could be
charged for full-sized logs, the remaining costs being recovered from sale of
smallwood and sawmill waste to the pulp and paper mill. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that Government would set up, by January 1, 1978,
and maintain thereafter, a system satisfictory to the Bank for the determina-
tion of ex-factory prices of IPD proiucts which would permit IPD to recover
at all times logging, transport, hrzndl!ng, and processing costs, and replace-
ment cost of its plantations. Assurances were also obtained that all IPD
prices would be reviewed by Government annually to take account of inflation,
and from time to time in agreement with the Bank when circumstances warrant a
change (for example if a pulp and paper mill is built),



- 26 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The primary direct benefits from the Project would consist of Pine
and Eucalyptus sawn timber, Eucalyptus transmission poles, and building posts,
as well as smallwood and sawmill waste for the proposed pulp and paper mill.
The plantations are therefore planned on the assumption that a pulp and
paper mill would be built within the next few years, and that all the wood
from the plantation would be used partly for sawmilling and other existing
industries, partly for any agreed wood-based panel, and partly for the future
pulp and paper mill. For the next decade or so the new pulp and paper mill
would use smallwood and sawmill waste from previous plantations. That pulping
material has been brought into the rate of return calculations at a zero
opportunity cost, since the bulk of this material cannot be utilized except by
a pulp and paper mill. In calculating the economic rate of return, traded
goods have been converted from foreign to domestic values by using a foreign
exchange conversion factor of US$1 = K 0.9 instead of the official US$1 = K
0.8; unskilled labor has been shadow-priced at 60% of actual cost to reflect
the relative abundance of this class of labor; all importable and valuable
output has been valued at import parity prices and sawntimber prices have
been projected in accordance with IBRD's forecast world prices for sawlogs.
There are no taxes or subsidies involved.
7.02      The Project is a time-slice of a long-term planting, replanting and
wood processing program started in 1949 and intended to extend many years
after this project, and to involve the planting of a total of about 80,000
ha. of pine and eucalyptus with their associated processing costs. The first
phase Bank Project involved the planting of 20,000 ha. This Project is the
second phase of the program and involves another 19,500 ha. of plantations
plus processing costs associated with past plantations. It is envisaged that
there will be one or more phases of the long-term program. The Project
consists of:
-  planting and maintaining 19,500 ha. of new wood planta-
tions;
-  maintaining all existing IPD plantations;
-  logging and transporting 120,000 m3 of roundwood from
pre-Project plantations;
-  a single sawmill to produce about 40,000 m3 sawn timber
from pre-Project plantations.
While the heterogeneity of these components is inevitable in a time-slice
Project of this nature, reflecting as it does the next 5-year phase of the
long-term program, the components are not directly related to each other, and
do not, either together or individually (except possibly for the single Proj-
ect sawmill) contain a complete cost or benefit stream. It is therefore not
possible to calculate a rate of return on Project components alone without
introducing some costs which were either incurred prior to the project (e.g.



- 27 -
wood from the pre-Project planatations for the single sawmill), or costs to
be incurred 10 or more years hence and therefore not included in the Project
(e.g. sawmills to saw wood from the proposed 19,500 ha. plantation)> or compo-
nents which are still somewhat problematic (e.g. the pulp and paper mill to
process smallwood and sawmill waste from the same proposed Project plantation).
These costs and benefits which, although outside the Project, have to be
brought into any meaningful rate of return calculations, have therefore been
introduced and combined with the Project costs and benefits proper in rate
of return calculations for the Project and necessary associated investments.
The exact non-project costs thus introduced into the calculations are clearly
specified in Annex 10.
7.03      On the basis and the assumptions detailed in paragraphs 7.01 and
7.02 the Project and necessary associated investment would earn an internal
financial rate of return (IFR) of 11% and an internal economic rate of return
(IER) of 20%. The differential between the IFR and IER is largely due to
shadow-pricing of specific costs and benefits as detailed in Annex 10.
Even if, due to lack of funds or other cause, a pulpmill did not get built,
the Project which then would have to rely entirely on sawmilling and poles
manufacture, would still earn an IFR of 10.5% and an IER of 20% on a much
reduced scale of activities with a smaller economic impact. A direct com-
parison of the above rates of return with and without the pulp-mill would be
misleading, since the pulpmill would be a substantial industry compared with
sawmilling. For example with the pulp mill the average net annual benefit is
K 22 million (and discounted net value K 115 million, Annex 10, Tables 7 and
8) but with only sawmills and pole manufacture it is K 7 million (discounted
net value K 33.4 million). These figures reflect the significant difference
in the scope and economic impact of the Project with and without the pulp and
paper mill. The IER is relatively insensitive to small changes in costs and
benefits (Annex 10). An increase of 20% in the cost stream or a reduction of
the benefits stream by 20% would reduce IER by only three percentage points
to 17%. Government and foreign exchange cash flows (Annex 11) show that Gov-
ernment would earn a net inflow of foreign exchange from Year 2 (1979) and a
sustained positive net cash flow on the Project from Year 11 (1988).
7.04      The single sawmill to be financed through this Project, together
with its associated logging and transport, would process wood from trees
planted under previous projects. Such wood has been valued for the IFR at
proposed stumpages, and for the IER at the opportunity cost as reflected by
the import parity prices. This group of investments alone would earn an IFR
of 11% and an IER of 13%.
7.05      To confirm that the total planting and other investment program
(past, present and proposed) is still viable, rates of return have also been
calculated for the total planting program starting from 1949 including the
Project. The IFR on this would be 11% mnd IER 14%. If a pulpmill is not
built, the much reduced investment and activity based on sawmilling and pole
manufacture alone would still earn an 17R of 10.5% and an IER of 15% on the
total planting program.
7.06      The Project does not face any known abnormal risk.  The only major
physical risk is that fires could destroy some of the trees after planting.



-- 28 -
However, this risk is common to all forestry projects. IPD's fire record
has been normal in the past, and the conventional fire preventive measures
have been built into the Project. All the normal risks associated with the
Project, and the measures being taken to eliminate or minimize them have been
fully discussed in Chapters IV and V.
7.07      The Project sawmill would within five years more than double, the
amount of sawn-timber available from existing IPD plantations. Also, by
doubling the area of industrial plantations in Zambia, the Project would make
a large contribution to the future availability of sawn timber, transmission
poles, and raw material for the proposed pulp and paper mill. The benefits
of the project are expected to accrue to all Zambians regatdless of income
or wealth and are not expected to produce any direct income redistribution
effect.
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      It would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan that the
Zambian Treasury and IPD would have entered into arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank for passing on the Bank loan to IPD.
8.02      During negotiations, several assurances were obtained from Zambia
Government, including the following:
(a)  Government would exchange views with the Bank on results
of relevant feasibility studies before constructing a
wood based panel or other industry utilizing wood from
IPD plantations (paragraph 2.12).
(b)  A staff training program agreed between the Government
and the Bank during negotiations would be implemented
(paragraph 4.12).
(c)  Government would provide the Bank with an Evaluation
Report on the Project 3 months after the last disburse-
ment (paragraph 4.15).
(d)  The posts of Mechanical Engineer and Engineer in IPD
would be filled not later than December 31, 1977 (para-
graph 5.04); and appointments to other key posts in
IPD would be made promptly and after consultation with
the Bank, and the appointees would be qualified and
experienced (paragraph 5.05).
(e)  IPD would be incorporated not later than December 31,
1978 under terms satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph
5.06).



- 29 -
(f) IPD or its successor organization would implement this
Project (paragraph 5.06).
(g) IPD and its successor organization would continued to
be managed as a self-accounting and efficient institution
with production and pricing policies based on complete
cost recovery (paragraph 5.06).
8.03      Subject to the above precondition and assurances, the Project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$16.8 million for 20 years including 4 1/2
years of grace.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Forest Resources
1.        While about 375,000 km  or half of the total area of Zambia is
classified a! "forest" land, the reserved National Forest estate amounts only
to 67,000 km , or about 9% 2f the total area, although there is a plan to
increase this to 117,000 km or 15% of the total area. The forest resources
of Zambia consist mainly of "miombo" woodlands, which are usually dominated
by semi-evergreen leguminous trees (species of Brachystegia, Julbernardia and
Isoberlinia), as well as a Dipterocarp (Marguesia macroura). These woodlands
form a more or less open canopy 15 to 20 m. high and are slow-grSwing and low-
yielding, with an average total standing volume well below 100 m per hectare.
Most of this forest has been subjected to shifting cultivation in the past and
is now secondary. Only about 1/4 of the productive area contains merchantable
timber, as distinct from fuelwood and poles.
2.        The Coperbelt Province, in which the project would be situated, has
an area of approximately 30,000 km , of which almost 20% is reserved under the
Forests Act, and nearly all of which is "miombo" woodland. Inside the Proj-
ect area the average standing volume in woodland being cleared for tree-
planting is estimated at about 125 m /ha (1976), with 6 to 7 species making
up about 70% of the total volume.
3.        After several years of trials, starting in 1949, large-scale plant-
ing of fast-growing and economically-useful exotics began in 1962 on the Cop-
perbelt, at first with Pine (mainly P. kesiya) and later on with Eucalyptus
(mainly E. grandis). In 1976 approximately 23,000 ha of exotic plantations
existed around Kitwe and Ndola, of which about 7,000 ha had been planted
before 1969 and 16,000 ha during the phase I project (1969-75); some 3/4 of
these plantations were Pine (mostly P. kesiya, with some P. oocarpa and other
species) and 1/4 Eucalyptus (mostly E. grandis, with some E. cloeziana and
other species). Growth conditions are very favorable on the Copperbelt and
the growth rates and yields of both Pine and Eucalyptus are very satisfactory
(see Annex 3, Table 3). The plantations are situated within a 50 km radius
around Kitwe, where an integrated forest industrial complex is planned (on
the Kafue river), are accessible by a good network of roads and are close to
the railway. It is expected that the are!a of plantations will double by 1985
and at least quadruple by the year 2060.



ANNEX I
Page 2
4.        T4e total wood consumption of Zambia is prSbably of the order of
5 million m (1975), most of it (about 4.5 million m ) fuelwool. The total
industrial wood consumption is probably about half a million m in roundwood
equivalent, most of which is imported.  Tbe current demand for sawn ood, in-
cluding mining timber, is about 100,000 m (equivalent to 250,000 m round),
about half of which is still imported. The paper consumption (of all grades)
is around 30,000 tons p.a., all imported, and the current consumption of wood-
based panels is about 20,000 tons p.a., nearly all imported. Assuming that
the rate of population increase remains steady at just below 3% p.a., that
GNP per capita increases by an average of 1-2% p.a., that substitutes do not
appreciably replace the wood-based products (except for fuelwood), and that
the prices of the various wood-based commodities in Zambia remain reasonable,
the consumption of wood-based products is likely to be as follows over the
next 25 years:
Volume - 000 m  (roundwood equivalent)
Product                    Year        1975        1980        1990        2000
Fuelwood                              4,500       5,000       6,000       7,000
Poles (all categories)                   70          90         145         235
Sawnwood                                250         325         530         860
Wood-based panels                        50          65         105         170
Paper                                   150         190         310         505
Total                                 5,020       5,670       7,090      8,770
By the turn of the century it is quite conceivable that all the wood-based
products consumed in Zambia will be produced locally, except for some sawn-
wood which may still have to be imported (Paragraph 6 below).
5.        The forest industries of Zambia are in their infancy:  apart from
a few relatively small sawmills and a small boardmill, no forest industry
exists as yet (1976). IPD's two sawmills, at Chati and Ndola, as well as
sawmills owned by other organizations in the country, are nearly all operating
well below their rated capacities for a variety of reasons. In IPD's case,
low sawmill productivity is caused mainly by a shortage of sawlogs, since
most of the logs now available from the industrial plantations are young
thinnings. A fuller discussion of sawmilling is in Annex 6.
6.        Several important developments are planned during the next 5 years
or so, and all the forest industries will probably be greatly extended by the
year 2000. A large integrated forest industrial complex is due to be set up



ANNEX I
Page 3
near Kit Ie on the Kafue River.  It will include a new (IPD) sawmill of
20,000 m sawnwood capacity per shift p.a., running on a two-shift basis
as soon as possible; a paper mill of 40,000 tons p.a. capacity; and at least
one or two board mills of still undetermined capacity. Wood availability is
estimated to be as follows (assuming the planting program proceeds according
to plan):
Species and Category
of Wood                                 Volume - 000 m  (roundwood)
Year       1975      1980       1990       2000
Pine
Sawwood                                  40        80         340        365
Smallwood                                40        75         240        315
Utilizable sawmill waste                  --       35         150        250
Eucalyptus
Sawwood                                  40        55          80        100
Large poles                               25       30          40         45
Smallwood                                 60       60          90         90
Utilizable sawmill waste                  --       25          35         45



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRTAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Afforestation and Reforestation
A. Establishment of Plantations
1.        Land Clearing.  Afforestation nearly always takes place in "miombo"
woodland (see Annex 1) with more or less open canopy and trees 15-20 m high.
The land must therefore be completely cleared before planting.
2.        The land clearing method which is used on the Copperbelt is very
thorough and expensive, but IPD claims that it should not be changed as this
would reduce growth and yields. The work has so far been carried out mainly
under contract (IPD has recently started undertaking some clearing with direct
labor and some land is also cleared by charcoal burners), and the cost per
hectare was approximately K200 in 1976. The following operations are included:
(a) Knockdown. A heavy chain, weighing about 50 kg per link
and some 200 m long, is pulled by two 300 HP bulldozers
moving forward at an average distance of 30 m apart. The
chain can easily pull down all small and most medium-sized
trees in its path. One or two 200 HP bulldozers follow
some 60 m behind the others and help to pull down larger-
sized trees.
(b) Windrowing. All the uprooted trees are piled into windrows
some 80 m apart by means of bulldozers (200 or 300 HP).
When the wood is sufficiently dry it is all burnt in the
rows. (It is hoped that during the phase II project the
wood will increasingly be converted into charcoal).
(c) Stumping. Any stumps remaining in the ground after the
passage of the bulldozers are removed by hand and piled on to
the windrows, and the holes are then filled by hand.
(d) Ploughing. The whole area is ploughed after the stumps
have been removed.
3.        All these operations have until recently been carried out under con-
tract, except for some of the ploughing which has been done directly by IPD.
In order to reduce costs and be less dependent on contractors, IPD would like
gradually to take over all the land clearing operations, phased over the Project
period. However, in view of the heavy investment involved and of the period
of training required, it is assumed that the average cost per ha will. be more
or less the same throughout the Project period, regardless of who performs
the work. Thus, assuming an average total area of 3,500 ha cleared ;nnuaJly at
an average cost of K200/ha, the total (base line - 1976) costs are est-Imated
at K700,000 p.a. or K3.5 million over the whole Project period.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Equipment
4.        A complete unit consists of two 300 HP and at least one 200 HP bull-
dozers with two sets of chains. IPD already has one such unit, but another unit,
with a standby 300 HP dozer, would be purchased during year 1 of the Project,
and another replacement unit in year 3 of the Project.
5.        The estimated costs are:
Capital Costs
Year 1             Year 3
Equipment                       Unit Price   Number              Number
K'000               K'000               K'000
300 HP bulldozer, with all
attachments                      157          3        471        2       314
200 HP bulldozer, with all
attachments                      114          1        114        1       114
50-60 HP tractor                    10          5         50        5        50
Ancillary equipment 1/                                    70                  40
Ploughs, winches, chains etc.                             40                  32
TOTAL                                                745                550
Operating costs - (for one unit during year 1, and 2 units from year 2
to year 5).
N.B. 2000 hours per unit p.a.
Cost per unit p.a.
(K'000)
Materials, spares, maintenance and repairs                         45
Fuel - 300 HP.:  50 litre/hr  )
200 HP.:  36 litre/hr  ) KO.15/litre                       55
Tractors: 3.5 litre/hr)
Ancillary equipment    )
Lubricants                        KO.rl/litre                      10
TOTAL               110
1/   Low bed trailers, tanker, welding sets, etc.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Total Operating Costs (K'000)
Year                            1         2         3         4         5
110      220        220       220       220
Salaries and Wages (2 units from year 2)
Category                      Number      Annual       Cost per unit p.a.
Salary/wages             K
K
Supervisor                       1          3650               3650
Dozer drivers                    6          1620               9720
Tractor drivers                  5          1416               7080
Labor (incl. Transport)          6           492               2950
TOTAL      23,400
Ancillary equipment drivers   3             1416              4,248 (not doubled
with second
unit)
Total Salaries and Wages (K'000)
Year                            1         2         3         4         5
28        51       51         51        51
Recapitulation of land clearing costs
(K'000)
Year                1         2         3         4         5         Total
(a) by IPD
Equipment          745        -        550        -         -          1295
Fuel and
Lubricants         110       220       220       220       220          990
Salaries &
Wages (incl.
Transport)          28        51        51        51        51          232
TOTAL           883       271       821        271       271         2517



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Year               1         2        3         4         5        Total
(b) by contract
400      300      200        83       -           983
TOTAL
(a) + (b)         1283      571    1021        354       271        3500
Soil Preparation
6.        Ploughing has been included in the land clearing costs.  There only
remains pre-planting discing. The unit cost per operation is K7.30/ha (1976),
of which labor represents about 25% or K1.80/ha. No special equipment need be
purchased, apart from disc harrows. (The tractors used in ploughing can also
be utilized for discing). Normally only one discing operation is required,
unless planting takes place after too long an interval, when a second discing
may be necessary.
Year               1         2        3         4         5        Total
Area (ha)             3700      3800      3900     4000      4100       19,500
Costs
(K 000)
Equipment and
fuel                    20        21        22       23        24          110
Labor (incl.
Transport)                7        7         7         7        7           35
TOTAL                    27       28        29        30       31          145
Nurseries and Seedling Production
7.        No new nurseries will be required during the Project, the existing
nurseries being conveniently located and adequate. Nursery techniques are
well developed and satisfactory. Pine is spot-sown in tubes (1-3 seeds per
tube, according to the tested germinating power of the seed stock), while
Eucalyptus is transplanted from seedbeds into tubes. The tubes are made of
black polythene, 5 cm wide when flat ind 12 cm long. Sterilized soil is used
to fill the tubes. No special mycorrhi.al problem exists as regards Pine.
Sowing normally takes place in June-July and the seedlings are ready for
planting out as from November-December. Fertilizers are applied diluted
in water, one month after germinating (or transplanting) and regularly there-
after, as required. The average task for the filling of tubes is 1175 p.d.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Allowing 20-25% for various losses, iL is advisable to allow 1700 Pine or
1000 Eucalyptus plants per hla, giving a weighted average of 1500 plants per ha
for both Pine and Eucalyptus. The weighted average cost is K10 per thousand
seedlings, giving a weighted average cost of K15 per ha, of which approxi-
mately one-third or K5 is for materials, and two-thirds or KIO for labor.
Year               1         2         3         4        5         Total
Area (ha)         3700      3800      3900    4000       4100      19,500
Costs (KOOO)
Materials            19       19        20       20         21          99
Labor (incl.
Transport)          37        38        39       40        41          195
TOTAL             56        57        59       60        62         294
Planting and Fertilizing
8.        The present planting distances of 2m 70 x 2m 70 (1370 plants/ha)
for Pine and 3m 60 x 3m 60 (770 plants/ha) for Eucalyptus will be maintained.
The average cost (all labor) is K15/ha for Pine and K10/ha for Eucalyptus,
giving a weighted average of K13/ha, which includes 10% for the replacement
of failures.
9.        No fertilizers are used for Pine, but borate and NPK are applied in
Eucalyptus plantations at the time of planting. The cost of this treatment
is K20/ha (1976), of which KIO is for the borate and NPK, and K5 is for labor
and transport. The planting program and costs may be summarized as follows:
Year               1         2         3         4        5         Total
Area (ha)
Pine              3000      3000      3000      3000     3000      15,000
Eucalyptus         700       800       900      1000      1100      4,500
TOTAL           3700      3800      3900      4000     4100      19,500
Costs (KOOO)
(a) Planting
Labor (incl.
Transport)         48         49        51        52        53         253



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Year               1         2         3         4        5         Total
(b) Fertilizing
Borate & NPK        7         8         9       10       11           45
Labor (incl.
Transport)          7         8         9       10       11           45
TOTAL            14        16        18      20        22           90
TOTAL (a) + (b)          62        65       69       76        75          343
Weeding
10.       Very intensive weeding is required.  Most of the weeding is done
mechanically, in lines, using a tractor and rotorvator, but hand weeding is
sometimes carried out simultaneously around the trees. The following opera-
tions are done on the average:
(a)  Pine                          Operation               Average Cost (K/ha)
1st year               6 mechanical, 4 manual                  47
2nd year               4 mechanical, 2 manual                  45
3rd year               2 mechanical                            23
Total weeding costs (3 yrs.)  115
(b)  Eucalyptus                    Operation               Average Cost (K/ha)
1st year               6 mechanical, 4 manual                  47
2nd year               0-2 mechanical                           7
Total weeding costs (2 yrs.)   54
Average weighted cost/ha p.a. for Pine and Eucalyptus: K100.
(assuming areas at the start atid erd of the Project balance
each other out for the 2-3 years of weeding). This cost
includes equipment (33%), fuel (17. ) and labor (50%).



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Year                1         2         3         4         5        Total
Area (ha)          3700      3800      3900      4000      4100     19,500
Costs (KOOO)
Equipment
(tractors, etc.)   122       125       128      132       135         642
Fuel & lubricants   63        65        67        68'       70         333
Labor (incl.
Transport)          185      190        195      200      205         975
TOTAL             370      380        390     400       410       1,950
Recapitulation - Total Establishment Costs (KOOO)
Operation             Year   1          2         3         4        5         Total
Land clearing                1283       571      1021      354      271         3500
Soil preparation               27        28        29       30       31           145
Nursery production             56        57        59       60        62          294
Planting and
fertilizing                  62        65        69      72        75          343
Weeding                       370       380       390      400      410          1290
TOTAL                      1798      1101      1568     916       849         6232
Recapitulation - Total Establishment Costs by Categories of Expenditure (K'000)
Category              Year   1          2         3         4        5         Total
Equipment                    877       135       688       142      145         1987
Materials - Local             26        27        29        30        32          144
Fuel and Lubricants          183       296       299       301      304          1383
Labor (incl. transport)    312         343       352       360       368         1735
Contract                     400       300       200        83       -            983
TOTAL                     1798      1101      1568       916      849         6232



ANNEX 2
Page 8
B. Maintenance of Plantations (mainly pre-Project)
11.       Pruning
(a) Pine
Unit Cost      Average area      Total cost p.a.
Operation                  (1976) K/ha        (ha) p.a.           (K'000)
1st pruning (5 yrs.)            10              2000                 20
(1000 stems/ha)
2nd pruning (8 yrs.)             5               1500                 8
(260 stems/ha)
3rd pruning (11 yrs.)           10               1000                10
(260 stems/ha)
Total cost p.a. Pine         38
(b) Eucalyptus
Pruning (at about 2 yrs.)         5                750                4
Average total cost of pruning p.a.  Pine + Eucalyptus                42
12.       Thinning.  Except in the case of first thinnings for Pine, the only
cost involved is for the marking of thinnings as it is assumed that thinnings
will be saleable and the felling and logging costs will be borne by logging
operations. The first Eucalyptus thinning (at 5 years) is a line thinning
and involves no marking costs.
Pine                        Eucalyptus
Thin. I   Thin. II   Thin. III                  Thin. II   Total
(11 yrs.)  (14 yrs.)  (19 yrs.)   Total P.    (8 yrs.)   P + E
Cost K/ha          10           3           2            -            1
Average area    1500         1000         250         2750          800      3550
(ha) p.a.
Total Cost         15           3           1           19            1        20
(K'000)



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Recapitulation Total Cost of Pruning and Thinning (all labor)
Operation              Year   1         2         3         4         5        Total
Pruning                       42       42        42        42        42          210
Thinning                      20       20        20        20        20          100
TOTAL (Labor)                 62       62        62        62        62          310
(including transport)
C. Roads
13.       All road construction and maintenance is included here, even of so-
called "logging" roads, which are also used for other purposes.  However,
external fire-breaks, which are sometimes used as roads, are dealt with
separately under Fire Control.
I. Road Construction (new roads)
Access Roads  "Logging" Roads  Compartment Roads    Total
Category:            (Class B)        (Class C)           (Class D)       all roads
Density                   10                 3                31
(Km/1000 ha)
Average cost /1         3125             2000                280
(K/km)
Total cost            31,250             6000                  8.680
(K/1000 ha)
Total cost /2            109               21                 30             160
(K000) p.a.
Total cost               545              105                150             800
(KOOO)- 5 yrs.
Total length             175               52.5              542.5
(Km) - 5 yrs.
/1   Mid 1976 costs have been increased by 12% to allow for the 20% devalu-
ation of the Kwacha in 1976, which affects all imports (55% of total
road costs).
/2   An average of 3500 ha of new plantations p.a.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
II. Road Maintenance
14.       Roads to be maintained annually are as follows:
Access Roads  "Logging" Roads  Compartment Roads    Total
Category            (Class B)        (Class C)          (Class D)       all roads
Length (Km)            80                90                100
of existing roads
(1975)
Length (Km)            90                25                270
of new Project
Roads (total)
divided by 2 /1
Total length (Km)    170                115               370
(average)
Average Cost p.a.    312.5              200                 28
(K/km) /2
Total Cost p.a.        53                23                 10.4            86.4
(KG00)
Total Cost - 5 yrs.  265                115                52             432
(KOOO)
/1   To obtain yearly average over the whole 5-year period.
/2   10% of capital costs.
15.       The total base-line Project costs for road construction and mainte-
nance are K1,232,000, of which approximately 60% (K740,000) is for equipment
and materials, and 40% (K492,000) for labor (including transport).
16.       Detailed Project Costs are given below:



ANNEX 2
Page 11
Equipment (Machinery)                Nutaber              Unit Cost       Total Cost
(K 000)        (K 000)
150 HP motor graders         2 (1 yr. I & 1 yr. 4)             80             160
5 ton tipper trucks        4 (2 yr. I & 2 yr. 4)             33             132
Total equipment (Machinery)        292
Spares                                                                    40
Fuel and lubricants                                                      288
Workshop equipment                                                        40
Materials - imported                                                      40
local                                                       40
Total non-labor                                             740
Total labor (including transport)                          492
Total road costs (construction & maintenance)              1232
Year                     1         2        3         4         5         Total
Machinery and           146        -        -        146        -           292
Equipment
Spares                   20         5        5         5         5           40
Fuel & Lubricants        44        52       58        64        70          288
Workshop Equipment       20         5         5        5         5           40
Material
imported               8         8         8         8         8           40
local                  8         8         8         8         8           40
Labor (including         80        88       98       108       118          492
transport)
TOTAL                 326      166       182       344       214         1232



ANNEX 2
Page 12
D. Fire Protection
17.       The fire hazard is high in forest plantations on the Copperbelt and
losses may sometimes be appreciable despite normal precautions. For example,
some 200 ha of Pine were completely lost and another 400 ha of Pine were more
or less severely scorched in 1975. Fire damage is worst in Pine stands 5 to
8 years old. External fire-breaks 15 m wide are constructed and maintained
around all new plantations. Internally, roads are used as firebreaks. 20 m
wide breaks are usually maintained on either side of main roads. But essen-
tially fire protection consists of controlled burning of firebreaks and of
all plantations while there is a serious fire hazard. Finally, fire control
includes maintaining fire-fighting vehicles, equipment and fire towers, as
well as fire crews.
18.       Fire protection is considered under the following headings:
(i) Construction of external firebreaks (new)
The cost of construction of new external firebreaks is the same as the cost of
land clearing, as the same operation is involved. This cost is assumed to be
about K200/ha. As the width is 15 m., the average area of external firebreaks
is 1 1/2 ha per km and the average cost is K300/km (1976). The average density
is 23 km/1000 ha of new plantations, which gives a total of 80.5 km p.a. (3,500
ha of new plantations p.a.). The average annual cost is, therefore, K24,000,
divided as follows:
Cost (K'000)
Year                1         2        3         4         5        Total
(a) by IPD
Equipment           8         8        8         8         8           40
Fuel & lub., etc.  7          7         7        7         7           35
Labor (incl.
transport)        1         1        1         1         1           5
(b)  by contract         8         8        8         8         8           40
TOTAL            24        24       24        24        24         120
(ii) Maintenance of firebreaks
19.       All firebreaks are maintained by regular annual strip-ploughing or
discing and controlled burning.  The a4.rage cost is K25/km.  The average area
of plantations during the project .s assumed to be 26,000 + 18,000 = 34,000 ha,
and the average length of firebreaks to be maintained (at 23 km/1,000 ha) is
assumed to be 34 x 23 = 782 km. The total average cost of firebreak mainte-
nance is K20,000 p.a., made up of:



ANNEX 2
Page 13
Equipment                    (25%)      -     K 5,000
Fuel & lub., etc.            (50%)      -     K10,000
Labor (incl. transport)      (25%)      -     K 5,000
Cost (K'000)
Year               1         2         3         4        5         Total
Equipment          2         3         5         7        8           25
Fuel & lub., etc. 8          9        10        11        12          50
Labor (incl.       4         5         5         5         6           25
transport)
Total             14        17        20        23        26          100
(iii) Controlled burning
20.       Assuming half the total area of plantations is control-burnt annually,
the average area involved will be 34,000 = 17,000 ha. At an average cost of
2
K 0.5/ha, the annual average cost will be K9,000, nearly all of it labor.
Cost (K'000)
Year               1         2         3         4        5         Total
Labor (incl.       7         8         9        10        11         45
transport)
(iv) Fire Control
21.       This includes all fire-fighting equipment and services, and the
manning of fire towers and standby crews during periods of high fire hazard.
(a) Fire tenders
There are two types of fire tenders: the light one which
consists of a fast, 4WD, 3-ton load-carrying capacity
cross-country vehicle, and the heavy one which is a proper
fire engine. The requirements are one light tender for
3,500 ha of plantations and one heavy tender for 7,000 ha
of plantations. The average total area of plantations
during the Project is 34,000 ha (see the two previous
headings). The total requirements, including replacements,
will therefore be 10 light tenders and 5 heavy tenders.



ANNEX 2
Page 14
Light tenders    Heavy tenders    Total
(K'000)
Total requirements (number)                      10                 5
No. available in working order                    5                 2
Additional No. required (new)                     5                 3
Average unit cost (K'000) /1                     30                40
Total cost (K'000)                        150               120             270
Running costs (average)
(Fuel, lub., etc. (p.a. K10,000)                                           50
(Labor              (p.a. K10,000)                                         50
Total cost over 5 years             370
Year                1         2         3         4         5         Total
Equipment         100         -      100          -        70          270
Fuel, lub. etc.   8           9        10        11        12           50
Labor (incl.        8         9        10        11        12           50
transport)        _
Total             116        18       120        22        94          370
(b) Fire towers
22.       Requirements - I large tower (30 m high) for 1800 ha.
1 small tower (8 m high) for 4000 ha.
Large tower         Small tower         Total
No. required p.a.                 2                   1                 3
Unit cost (K'000)                 7                   2
of which (materials               4                   1                 5
(labor                  3                   1                4
Total cost p.a.                  14                   2                16
of which (materials               3                   1                 9
(labor                  6                   1                7
/1  Allowing a 20% increase over mid-1976 costs (1976 devaluation).



ANNEX 2
Page 15
Year                1         2         3         4         5         Total
Materials (incl.  9           9         9         9         9           45
transport)
Labor (incl.        7         7         7         7         7           35
transport)
Total              16        16        16        16        16           80
23.  (c)  Fire fighting equipment /1
60 W.       25 W.       10 W.          Other
radios      radios      radios      Equipment
No. required (5 years)                    6            50          50
Unit cost (K'OOO)                         2.5           1           0.8
Total cost (K'OOO) - 5 yrs.              15           50           40            20
Grand total cost (K'O00) - yrs.                                                 125
Year                1         2         3         4         5         Total
Equipment          75         -         -        50         -          125
(d)  Fire crews and fire fighting
Average cost - all labor - (K'O0O)
p.a.      -   20
5 years  -  100
Year                1         2         3         4         5         Total
Labor              16        18        20        22        24          100
1/   Allowing a 20% increase over mid-1976 costs (1976 devaluation).



ANNEX 2
Page 16
24.               Recapitulation Fire control costs (iv) (a-d)
(K'000)
Year               1         2         3         4        5         Total
Equipment         175        -        100        50        70        395
Materials           9        9          9         9         9          45
Fuel, lub., etc.   8         9         10        11        12          50
Labor (incl.       31       34         37        40        43         185
transport)
Total             223       52        156        110      134         675
25.           Recapitulation - All Fire Protection Costs (i) to (iv)
(K'000)
Year               1         2         3         4         5        Total
Equipment         185       11        113        65        86        460
Materials local    9         9          9         9         9          45
Fuel, lub., etc.  23        25         27        29       31         135
Labor (incl.       43       48         52        56       61         260
transport)
By contract         8        8          8         8        8          40
Total             268      101        209       167      195         940
26.              Recapitulation - All Afforestation Costs (A to D)
(Direct Costs)
(K'000)
Year                   1        2         3         4         5        Total
1.  Establishment of       1798      1101     1568       916       849        6232
plantations
2.  Maintenance of           62        62        62       62        62         310
plantations
3.  Roads - construction  326         166       182      344       214       1,232
& maintenance
4.  Fire protection         268       101       209      167       195         940
Total                  2454     1430      2021      1489      1320        8714



ANNEX 2
Page 17
27.      Recapitulation - All Afforestation Costs (Direct Costs) (A to D)
By Categories of Expenditure
(K'000)
Category Year                 1         2         3         4         5         Total
Equipment                    1256       164       819       371       249        2859
lIaterials -  Local            43        44        46        42        49         229
Fuel and Lubricants           250       373       384       394       405        1806
Labor (including              497       544       564       586       609        2797
transport)
Contract                      408       308       208        91         8        1023
Total                        2454      1430      2021      1489      1320        8714



ANNEX 2
Page 18
E. Non-Afforestation (Indirect) Costs
(Project Management)
Administration and Overheads
28.       The average IPD establishment (staff) costs during the Project would
be as follows:
No.   Unit cost p.a. /1   Total cost p.a.
Posts                                  (K'000)               (K'000)
Director                                1           8.7                  8.7
Financial Controller                    1           8.7                  8.7
Conservators                            5           8.2                 41.0
Auditors & Senior Accountants           3           6.8                 20.4
Enginers, Managers, Senior Forest
Officers                             11           6.4                 70.4
Senior Mechanics & Clerks of Works    6             5.8                 34.8
Electrical Officers & Building
Officers                              5           4.9                 24.5
Foresters                              10           4.9                 49.0
Accountants                             4           4.6                 18.4
Executive Officers, Surveyors,
Transport Officers                   13           3.2                 41.6
Assistant Accountants                   5           3.0                 15.0
Stenographers                           3           2.7                  8.1
Typists                                 8           2.0                 16.0
Senior Officers                        10           1.9                 19.0
Clerical Officers                      15           1.7                 25.5
Junior Clerical Officers                8           1.3                 10.4
Total              411.5
+ 12 1/2% housing allowance                                51.5
Total cost (salaries and all allowances) p.a.             463
Office expenses (average) p.a.                             27
Average Total Cost of Administration & Overheads p.a.  490
/1   Including salary and allowances (excluding housing allowance).
29.       Recapitulation - Administration & Overhead Costs
Year                    1         2        3         4         5        Total
Salaries & Allowances       463       463       463      463       463        2315
Office expenses               27       27        27       27        27          135
(materials & services)
Total                       490       490       490      490       490         2450



ANNEX 2
Page 19
F. Housing (additional)
30.        The' only new buildings required during the project are additional
housing for the staff.
Year      1             2            3             4             5         Total
Unit cost    Qty.  T.Cost  Qty.  T.Cost  Qty.  T.Cost  Qty.  T.Cost Qty.  T.Cost  Qty.  T.Cost
(K'OOO)
3'jype        (at 1976 prices)     (K'000)      (K'OOO)       (K'OOO)      (K'000)       (K'OOO)       (K'000)
Low density          16          3    48       2.    32    2       32     2    *32      3    48    32    192
Medium density       12          4    48       2      24    2       24    3    36       4    48    15    180
High density          4         60   240    60    240   70    280   70   280    90   360   350   1400
Ablution blocks       6         10    60       6      36    7      42     7    42       9    54    39    234
Electricity &                          50             50           50           50            50            250
Water Services
TOTAL                         446            382           428          440          560           2256
31.        It is assumed that on the average labor and materials will account
for about half the total costs each, and that the foreign exchange component
will be about 25% of total costs.
Recapitulation - Housing Costs (K'000)
Year                1          2         3         4         5          Total
Labor (incl.       223        191       214       220       280          1128
transport)
Materials
local            112        96       107        110       140           565
foreign          111        95       107        110       140           563
Total              446       382        428       440       560          2256
G. Building Maintenance
32.        The average cost of maintaining all Project buildings, old and new,
is estimated at K100,000 p.a. of which about half is for labor and half for
materials (50% foreign).



ANNEX 2
Page 20
Building maintenance costs are, therefore, estimated thus:
Costs (KOOO)
Year               1         2        3         4        5         Total
Labor (incl.       40        45       50        55        60        250
transport)
Materials
local            20       23        25        28       30         126
foreign          20       22        25        27       30         124
Total              80        90      100       110       120        500
H. Administrative Vehicles & Labor Transport
33.       At the end of the Phase I project, the following administrative
vehicles were in working order:
Trucks and vans           -    37
Personnel vehicles        -    22
Motorcycles               -      8
34.       It is assumed that almost half of these vehicles will be used in
afforestation (the other half in logging, forest industries, etc.) 'Provision
is made for the following replacements during the Project period:
Average Unit        Total Cost
Cost (1976)         (5 years)
Category                      Number            (KO000)             (K'000)
1.  8 ton flat trucks         10 )                   19.4                 194
2.  5 ton trucks or vans       10 )                  16                    160
3.  Personnel vehicles         10 )  2 p.a.           9                    90
4.  Motor cycles               10 )                   2                    20
Total          464



ANNEX 2
Page 21
35.       The average annual running costs of the existing administrative
vehicles and for the transport of labor to the work sites (for afforestation
operations only) are:
Total Cost
Unit Cost p.a.        p.a.
Item                       Number           (K'000)         (K'000)
Labor - drivers                        25              1416          35.400
skilled workers               10              1000          10.000
unskilled workers             20               492           9.840
Total Labor                   55                            55.240
Fuel and Lubricants (imported)                                       50.000
Spares (imported)                                                    20.000
Total                                                               125.240
Cost of Administrative Vehicles, including Labor Transport
Item                Year       1         2        3         4         5         Total
Vehicles &                    100       100       100      100        64         404
equipment (new)
Running Cost -
Labor                          55        55        55       55        55         275
Fuel and Lubricants            50        50        50       50        50         250
Spares                         20        20       20        20        20         100
Total                         225       225       225      225       189        1089
The cost of Labor Transport for all afforestation operations has been in-
cluded in the cost of Labor in each case, and it is assumed that it repre-
sents about 10% of total Labor costs. As the average annual Labor costs for
afforestation come to K 559.400, Labor Transport represents approximately
K 56,000 of it. This must be deducted from the totals given above in order
to avoid double counting. The actual cost of Administrative Vehicles and
Transport under non-afforestation (indirect) costs is therefore K 1089.000
less K 280.000 (K 55.000x5) = K 809,000. Labor Transport thus represents
25% of the total cost of Administrative Vehicles + Labor Transport, and by
subtracting 25% we obtain:



ANNEX 2
Page 22
Revised Cost of Administrative Vehicles
(excluding Labor Transport)
Item                 Year    1          2         3         4         5         Total
Vehicles &                      75       75        75        75       48          348
equipment
Labor                           41       41        41       41        41          205
Fuel & Lubricants               38       38        38        38        38         190
Spares                          15       15       15        15        15           75
Total                          169      169       169      169       142          818
I. Surveys and Training
36.        The average annual cost of surveys is K 30.000, made up of labor
(K 15.000) and materials (K 15.000).
IPD has its own Trainiong Centre, and average annual costs of
training are estimated at KlO,000 (for materials).
The total costs of Surveys and Training come to:
Costs (K'000)
Year                   1         2         3         4         5         Total
Surveys - labor             15        15        15        15        15           75
materials        15        15   r   15         15        15           75
Training - materials        10        10        10        10        10          50
Total                       40        40        40        40        40         200



ANNEX 2
Page 23
Recapitulation - Non-afforestation
(Indirect) Costs (E-I)
(Project Management)
Costs (K'000)
Year                     1         2        3         4         5         Total
Salaries & allowances        463       463       463      463       463         2315
Vehicles & equipment          75        75        75        75        38          348
Fuel & lubricants             38        38        38        38       38           190
Materials - foreign          161       147       162       167       200          837
- local           169       156       169       175      207           876
Labor                        319       292       320       331      396          1658
Total                       1225      1171      1227      1249     1352          6224



ZAMBIA                               ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Calculations of Stumpage Rates - Direct Costs
Basic data for per hectare model calculations
1. Costs
Pine           Eucalyptus
Direct costs (K)
Year 1. Establishment
Land clearing                      200            200 (18 for replanting)
Soil preparation                     7              7
Nursery (plant product)             17             10
Planting                            15             10
Fertilizers                         --             20
Weeding (first year)                47             47
Total establishment (direct) costs          286             304 (112 for replanting)
Year 2.  Weeding                              45             11 (including a light
pruning)
Year 3.  Weeding                              23             --
Year 5.  Pruning I                            10             -- (see year 2)
Year 8.  Pruning II                            5
Year 11. Pruning III                          10
Year 11. Thinnina I                         4(1o)          -(107Yline thinning at year 5)
Year 14. Marking of Thinning II                3              1 (at year 8, not 14)
Year 19. Marking of Thinning III               2             --
Clearfelling at                         year 25             12
1/ If smallwood is unsaleable.



ANNEX 3
ZAMBIA                             Table 2
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Stampage Rates - Indirect Costs maybe divided into two categories
(a) New (i.e. referring to new plantations only: 17.5 ha
over whole 5 year Project period).
Item                            Total Project  Total average area  Average cost per ha
Cost (KOOO)    involved (ha 000)   p.a. during Project
(K)
1.  Road construction                 800                17.5                9
2. Fire protection (new
fire breaks & fire towers)       200                 17.5                2
3.  Housing (additional)             2256                17.5               26
TOTAL:    37
(b) Recurrent (i.e. referring to whole area of plantations:
23000 1- 3500 - 26500 ha before Project and 44000 ha
at end of Project, giving an average area of 35000 ha
over the whole Project period.
Item                            Total Project  Total average area  Average cost per ha
Cost (KOOO)    involved (ha 000)   p.a. during Project
(K)
1.  Road maintenance                  432                35                   3
2.  Fire protection (recurrent)       740                35                   4
3.  Administration                  2450                 35                  14
4.  Building maintenance             500                35                    3
'. Administrative Vehicles
& Transport                      8i8                35
6.  Surveys and Training             200                35                    1
TOTAL:    30
Indirect costs would be charged at the rate of K37 (for new plantations only)
and K30 (for recurrent expenses for all plantations), i.e. a total Of K67
per annum during the first 5 years (Project period), and at the rate of only
K30 (recurrent) per annum thereafter.



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
2. Yields (m3/ha)
The following yields have been assumed:
(a) Pine
(60% P.K., 40% P.o.)
P. kesiya                    P. oocarpa and others          Weighted averaze for Pine (all snorio6
Operation  Age  Sawlogs    Smallwood    Total          Sawlogs   Smallwood   Total         Sawlogs       Smallwood dotal
Thin  I-ll       30          40           70          20          30         50           26             36             62
Thin II-14       40           30          70          25          25         50           34             28             62
Thin III-19       40          20           60          30          20         50           36             20             56
Clearfell-25      120           30         150         100          25        125          112             28             140
Total  2_ i0           120         350         175         100        275           208           112             320
MAI       (9.2)       (4.8)         14          (7)         (4)         11         (8.3)         (4.5)           12.8
(b)  Eucalyptus                             (2/3 E.g., 1/3 E.c.)
E. Rrandis                     E. cloeziana and others    deighted average for Eucalyptus (all species)
Operation  Age  Sawlogs  L. poles  Smallw'.  Total  Sawlogs  L. poles  Smallw.  Total   Sawlogs  L. poles  Smallw.   Total
Thin I    5       --         --        60       6C       --         --        20      20         --         --        47         47
Thin II    8        30         20       30       80       20         20        20      60         27         20        27         74
Clearfell   12       100         30        30      160       50         30        20    100          83         30        27       140
Total  130          50      120      300       70         50        60    180         110          50       101       261
MAI    (10.8)     (4.2)      (10)     25    (5.8)         (4.2)     (5.0)   15       (9.0)       (4.2)     (8.6)     21.8
- z
i-. r'



ZAMBIA                             ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
3. Stumpage rates
On the basis of the assumptions given above for costs and
yields, the following stumpage rates have been calculated in order
to give an IRR of 10%.
Rate (K/m3)
Category                     Pine                              Eucalyptus
I.  All produce  II.  Smallwood    I.  All produce   II.  Smallwood
saleable           unsaleable        saleable            unsaleable
Sawlogs                18                 22                 6                   8
Large poles            --                 --                 10                 13
Smallwood               5                 --                  3                 --



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Sta mage Rates - Pine, Sawlogs and Smallwood
Per hectare - K
Revenue
Year                               Direct      Indirect   Total         V7olume (m3/ha)     Sawlogs  Smallwood  Total        Net                         FIRR
Costs - K  Costs - K  Costs - K  Sawlogs  Smallwood  aK18/m3  (K5/m3          Benefits  Benefits                  -   10% +
1   Establishment                    286           67         353                                                             (353)                 353
2   Weeding                           45           67         112                                                             (112)                 101
3                                     23           67          90                                                              (90)                  74
4                                                  67          67                                                              (67)                  50
5   Pruning I                         10           67          77                                                              (77)                  53
6                                                  30          30                                                              (30)                   19
7                                                  30          30                                                              (30)                  17
8   Pruning II                         5           30          35                                                              (35)                   18
9                                                  30          30                                                              (30)                   14
10                                                 30          30                                                              (30)                  13
11  Thinning I & Pruning III          14           30          44         26         36        468        180        648       604                             232
12                                                 30          30                                                              (30)                   10
13                                                 30          30                                                              (30)                   10
14  Thinning II                        3           30          33         34         28         612       140        752       719                             208
15                                                 30          30                                                              (30)                    8
16                                                 30          30                                                              (30)                    7
17                                                 30          30                                                              (30)                    6
18                                                 30          30                                                              (30)                    6
19  Thinning III                       2           30          32         36         20         648       100        748       716                             129
20                                                 30          30                                                              (30)                    5
21                                                 30          30                                                              (30)                    4
22                                                 30          30                                                              (30)                    4
23                                                 30          30                                                              (30)                    4
24                                                 30          30                                                              (30)                    3
25  Clearfelling                                   30          30        112         28        2016        140      2156      2126                             215
Totals:  779        784
Conclusions:  The stumpage rates for Pine should be about K18/m3 for sawlogs and about
K5/m3 for smallwood assuming both are saleable.
w



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE TI
Stampage Rates - Eucalyptus ( /3 E.g., 1/3 E.c. & others) - Sawlogs, large ples & Smallwood
(Per hectare - K
3                     ~~~~~~Revenue
Year                        Direct Costs  Indirect Costs  Total Costs                   Volume (m3/ha)                Sawlogs  L. poles  Smallwsod  Total         Net                      FIRR
Sawlogs   L. poles   Smallwood         @K6/m    @Klo/m3   @K3/Km         Revenue   Benefits         -         lO     +
I   Establishment                34               67               371                                                                                              (371)         371
2   Weeding & pruning              11              67                78                                                                                               (78)          71
3                                                  67                67                                                                                               (678          71
4                                                  67                67                                                                                               (67 )         50
5   Thinning I                     --              67                67          --               --          47        --        --          141         141          74                            51
6                                                  30                30                                                                                               (30)          19
7                                                  30                30                                                                                               (30)          17
8   Thinning II                      1             30                31          27               20          27        162       200           81        443         412                          211
9                                                  30                30                                                                                               (30)          14
10                                                 30                30                                                                                               (30)          13
11                                                 30                30                                                                                               (30)          12
12  Clearfelling                   --              30                30          83               30          27        498       300           81        879         849                           297
13  Reestablishment               112              30               142                                                                                              (.4-)          45
14  Weeding & Pruning              11              30                41                                                                                               (41i          12
15                                                 30                30                                                                                               (30)           8
16                                                 30                30                                                                                               (30)           7
17  Thinning I                     --              30                30          --                           47        --        --           141        141         111                            24
18                                                 30                30                                                                                                (30)          6
19                                                 30                30                                                                                                (30)          5
20  Thinning II                     1              30                31          27               20          27        162       200           81        443         412                            67
21                                                 30                30                                                                                                (30)          4
22                                                 30                30                                                                                                (30)          4
23                                                 30                30                                                                                                (30)          3
24  Clearfelling                   --              30                30          83               30          27        498       300           81        879         849                            86
TOTAL:     716              736
Conclusion:  The stumlage rates for Eucalyptus should be about K6/mn3 for sawlogs, K10/m3 for large poles
and K3/m  for smallwood assuming  all are saleable.                                                                                        a x



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Stampage Rate- Pine (60% P.k., 40% P.o. & other) - sawlog utilization only
(Per hectare - K)
Year  Operation                  Direct Costs   Indirect Costs   Total Costs    Volumi of sawlogs   Revenue    Net Benefits                 FIRR
m lha            @K22/m3                       -    lo%   +
1     Establishment                  286               67               353                                                 (353)       353
2     Weeding                         45               67               112                                                 (112)       10S
3                                     23               67                90                                                  (90)        79
4                                                       67                67                                                 (67)        50
5     Pruning I                        10              67                77                                                  (77)        53
6                                                       30                30                                                 (30)        19
7                                                       30                30                                                 (30)        17
8     Pruning II                        5               30                35                                                 (35)        18
9                                                       30                30                                                 (30)        14
10                                                      30                30                                                 (30)        13
11    Thinning I & Pruning III        20                30               50                 26               572             522                    201
12                                                      30                30                                                 (30)        10
13                                                      30                30                                                 (30)        10
14    Thinning II                       3               30                33                34                748            715                    207
15                                                      30               30                                                  (30)         8
16                                                      30                30                                                 (30)         7
17                                                      30                30                                                 (30)         6
18                                                      30                30                                                 (30)         6
19    Thinning III                      2               30                32                36               792             760                    137
20                                                      30                30                                                 (30)         5
21                                                      30                30                                                 (30)         4
22                                                      30                30                                                 (30)         4
23                                                      30                30                                                 (30)         4
24                                                      30                30                                                 (30)         3
25    Clearfelling                                      30                30               112               2464           2434                    246
TOTALS:   785          791
Conclusion: The stumpage rate for Pine sawlogs should be about K22/m3 to produce
an IRR of 10%, assuming smallwood is not saleable, but thinnings
must be done as scheduled.



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIA. FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Stampage Rate- Eucalyptus (2/3 E.g., 1/3 E.c. & others) - Savlog and pole utilization only
(Per hectare - K)
Revenue                                                    FIRE
Year                         Direct Costs   Indirect Costs   Total Costs                   Volume (m3/na)                Sawlogs   Large po es  Total Revenue  Net Benefits           -   10.   +
__________ __________    _________ Sawiogs      Large poles       @K8/m         9K13/m
I     Establishment                 34              67               371                                                                                                (371)        371
2     Weeding & Pruning              11               67               78                                                                                                 (78)         71
3                                                     67               67                                                                                                 (67)         55
4                                                     67               67                                                                                                 (67)          59
5     Thinning I                    10                67               77                                                                                                  77           46
6                                                     30               30                                                                                                 (30)          19
7                                                     30               30                                                                                                 (301          17
8     Thinning II                    1                30               31               27                  20              216          260            476               445                    228
9                                                     30               30                                                                                                 (30)          14
10                                                    30               30                                                                                                 (30)          13
12                                                    30eyfe30n                                                                                                           (30)          12
12    Clearfel}ing                             30               10               83                  30              664          390            1054              1024                   358
13    Reestablishment                -                30              1(142                                                                                                            4
14    Weeding & Pruning              11               30               41                                                                                                  (42)        42
15                                                    30               30                                                                                                  (40)          8
16                                                    30               30                                                                                                 (30)           7
17    Thinning I                    10                30               40                                                                                                  (40)          9
18                                                    30               30                                                                                                  (30)          6
19                                                    30               30                                                                                                  (30)          5
201    hnigI                                          30               31               27                  20              216          260             476              445                     73
21                                                    30                30                                                                                                 (30)          4
22                                                    30                30                                                                                                 (30)          4
23                                                    30                30                                                                                                 (30)          3
24    Clearfelling                                    30               30               83                  30              664          390           1054              1024                    114
TOTAL: 771        773
Conclusion:  The stumpage rate for Eucalyptus should be about KS/m3 for sawlogs and K13/m3 for large poles,
to produce an IRR of 10%, assuming smallwood is not saleable, but thinnings must be done as
scheduled.



ANNEX 4
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Trials with Charcoal-making in Land-Clearing Operations
1.        On the Copperbelt land-clearing operations prior to tree planting
have so far been very wasteful: most of the trees pulled down by bulldozers
have been burnt after piling on to windrows. Only very small quantities of
wood have been either utilized as firewood or converted into charcoal. With
the multiple purpose of utilizing more of this wood, producing more charcoal
and more revenue, while at the same type trying to reduce land-clearing costs,
it is proposed under the Project to finance some trials with large-scale
charcoal-making, using economical modern methods.
2.        The avrage standing volume in the "miombo" 3woodlands cieared for
tree-planting inside the Project area is about 125 m /ha (+ 20 m /ha). This
wood is eminently suitable3for charcoal-burning. Assuming a conservative
averge wood yield of 100 m /ha, an average wood density of 0.6 when dry, and
a safe conversion rate of I ton of charcoal for 4 tons of dry wood (with
modern steel kilns), one could reasonably expect to obtain 15 tons of char-
coal per hectare, or a little over 50,000 tons p.a. for an average annual
clearing program of 3,500 ha. This should be more than enough for the
charcoal consumption of the main Copperbelt towns, Ndola and Kitwe, over the
next few years, if such an industry can be developed.
3.        These trials would be phased over the whole Project period.  At
present charcoal burners operate over only a small portion of the area and
utilize traditional open earth kilns, which, at best, have a conversion factor
of 7 or 8 to 1, and usually worse. The introduction of modern steel kilns
would be gradual, at first with a demonstration unit operated by IPD, complete
with kilns, other equipment, consultant (for about 6 months), supervision and
labor, including normal operating costs. After the first year's trials, if
these are successful, a second and then a third IPD-run unit would be set up
in years 2 and 3 of the Project respectively. Thereafter the whole business
would be handed over gradually to the private sector.
4.        Apart from their design, the most important feature of modern steel
kilns is the quality of the steel, which must be non-corrosive and of the
highest standard. Such kilns would probably have to be imported, at an esti-
mated cost of K 2,000 each. They can safely be assumed to last at least 3
years in tropical conditions and should therefore be amortized over such a
period.
5.        It is also most important that an experienced consultant should be
available for a period of 6 months to launch the scheme and to ensure that it
operates properly from the start. He should only be recruited once the kilns
have been ordered. The total costs for such a consultant for 6 months should
be around K 25,000.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
Estimated Costs per Unit of 10 Kilns:
Equipment (First Year Only)                                     (K'OOO)
10 Kilns at K2,000 each                                       20
4 Powersaws at K500 each                                       2
Bowsaws, Axes, Blades, Spares                                   1
Capital Costs                                                  23
Fuel and Lubricants p.a.                                           1
Spares and Other Material p.a.                                     1
Supervision p.a.  1 Supervisor                                     2
Labor (Including Transport) p.a.
2 Powersaw Operators at K2,000 p.a.                            4
10 Men at K1,000 p.a.                                          10
Annual Operating Costs                                         18
Total Costs for the whole scheme are estimated as follows:
Year                  1     2      3     4      5    Total
K'OOO ---0-00___ - --
Equipment            23    23    23      -      -      69
Materials
(including fuel)   2      4      6     4     2       18
Supervision           2     4      6     4      2      18
Labor                14    28    42    28    14       126
Consultant           25     -      -    _              25
Total              66    59    77    36    18       256



ANNEX 5
Page 1
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Logging and Transport
1.        In Zambia, logging and transport of logs to sawmills are generally
undertaken by sawmill operators or their appointees. IPD therefore undertakes
its own logging, using its Logging Section which supplies sawlogs to the IPD
sawmills and the pole treatment plant (KITE) at Chati, the IPD sawmill at Dola
Hill, the Forest Products Research and Development Center at Kitwe, the match
factory, as well as poles to the mines.
Terrain
2.        The Project area is flat to gently undulating, with only a few
creeks and a year-round watercourse. The bearing capacity of the soil
is good for 8-9 months of the year, and operation is possible with some
caution even in the rainy season. Grade construction is relatively easy,
and lateritic and other surfacing material is available within short haul-
ing distances.
Log Sizes
3.        The largest material handled to date have been eucalypt sawlogs
of up to 1.2 m volume. Mature pine and eucalypt sawlogs would be somewhat
larger, but there should be little increase in the maximum size of material
to be handled during the Project period. Some shortwood has also been
handled for posts, poles and short sawlogs of both Pine and Eucalyptus.
Logging Operations
4.        IPD's logging and log transport operations consist of:
-    felling and bucking with chainsaws, bow-saws and axes;
-    skidding with various types of tractors;
-    loading with a front end loader or hydraulic crane mounted
on a tractor or lorry;
-    hauling by truck or log trailer; and
-    unloading with front-end loaders.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        Felling and bucking have leen mainly done with bowsaw and axe, with
satisfactory results. Few problems have been identified in obtaining maximum
value from trees with the current bucking practice. Further efforts in crew
training, and an improved system of incentives to reward good practice, are
recognized needs. Power saws have been tried, and definitely raise individual
and crew productivity. During 1975 and 1976 the felling was done by 5 felling
gangs, of which three have been mostly working in Chati, one in Lamba and one
in Ndola. Each gang has a supervisor, two chainsaw operators and 8-12 snedder
peelers.  Different felling methods have been used as follows:
-    E.  grandis 1st thinning - planted 69-71, line thinning every
3rd or 4th line felled either with chainsaws or bowsaws.
Felled trees made into telephone goles, small poles and un-
converted sawlogs (about 16,000 m ).
-    E. grandis and cloeziana 2nd (and 3rd) thinning planted (66)
67-68, silvicultural thinning marked by PlantationS, felling
with chainsaws to unconverted logs (about 12,500 m ).
-    E. grandis, cloeziana and resinifera transmission and telephone
pole selecting in compartments planted 66-69 marking by Loggi5g
Section, felling and convertion with chainsaws (about 4,000 m
Chainsaws
6.        The Logging Section has 60 running chainsaw bodies.  The difficulty
in getting wearing parts such as chain, guide bars and sprockets has kept
most of the saws out of operation.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Felled Volume and Area. A summary of felling is shown in the tables below:
FELLING 1975 (type, areas and volumes)
Net ha   s/logs m    tx. tel. poles   smallgoles   m3 /ha
m
E. grandis
- clearfelling          157      19,795                                        126
- 3rd thinning           34       1,377                                         40
- 2nd thinning          203      10,411                                         51
- 1st thinning 69       244      12,056                                         49
- 1st thinning 70       126         950                            759          14
- 1st thinning 71       284                                      2,091            7
- tele. poles           217                        607                           3
- tx. poles             448                      3,464           _8
Total E. grandis    1,713        44,589 1/       4,071           2,850          30
E. cloeziania
- 2nd thinning           24                                        639          27
E. resinifera
- thinnings              50                        366                            7
Pine
-clear felling            1         182                                        130
- 3rd thinning            5         727                                        137
- 2nd thinning          219      5,797                                          26
- 1st thinning           37         601                                         16
- 1st thinning cont.  137         1,690                                         12
Total Pine              399       8,997                                          23
Gmelina Arborea
- 1st thinning           *          308
Indigenous
- land clearing          *          253
FELLING TOTAL         2,186     54,147           4,437           3,489
* Unconverted (tree length)



ANNEX 5
Page 4
FELLING 1975 (volumes in different plantations)
Plan -ation  Eucaly s  3-         3            3               3         3
Plantation           Eucalyptus m   iPine m   Gmelina m   Indigenous m   Total m
Chati-Lumba            49,011          1,318                                 50,329
Ndol                       306         6,163                                  6,469
Ichimpe                    786           363                                  1,149
Research (C & N)         2,229           577                                  2,806
Mpima                                    409        308                          717
Mvekera                     58           167                                     225
Chati Compound             125                                                   125
Landclearing (C)                                                  253            253
Total                  52,515          8,997        308           253        62,073
*  of which 1630 m  felled by contractor (Furncoz).
In 1975 the Eucalyptus clearfelling and pine thinnings were completed almost
according to the annual felling plan. A part of the Eucalyptus thinnings
(except transmission pole selections) was left to 1976 because of small
demand on small size sawlogs and small poles. Eucalypt poles, and some other
logs, have been peeled in the bush by the felling crew, with generally
satisfactory results. Eventually some sort of log peeling facility will
likely be necessary at Kafubu.
Skidding
7.        Two basic skidding units have been tried:  farm tractors and medium
skidders of the CAT 518 type. The farm tractors have been the more economical,
for the same reasons that make them the likely choice for an expanded logging
system:
-    availability in Zambia
-    capital cost
-    relatively simple maintenance.
The main tractors used have been International Harvester IH 674 and B 450 and
Masssey Ferguson 165. For skidding, the tractors have been mounted with a
small hydraulic A-frame at the rear, which can raise chokered logs slightly
off the ground. Skidding distances 'Pave been designed at generally less than
150 m, within each compartment.
8.        The extraction has been do'_ by three extraction teams, two opera-
ting mostly in Chati-Lamba 2nd one ii- Ndola. Each team has three farm trac-
tors, three drivers, 4-5 helpers and one supervisor. The skidders have been



ANNEX 5
Page 5
used mostly in eucalyptus clearfelling.  In 1975 a total volume of 57,295 m
was extracted by the Logging Sestion.  In Chati Lamba plantation 50,120 m3
was extracted, in Ndola 5,167 m  , and in Ichimpe, Mpima and Mvekera 2,008 m
For extraction, two skidders and 15 farm tractors were used during 1975.
However, one skidder and 7 farm tractors have been out of operation most of
the year.
Loading
9.        Most loading has been done in the landings, using a CAT 920 front
end loader, or hydraulic grapple loader mounted on a lorry. Some hand load-
ing of trailers for small poles by tractor has also been tried. Cat 920 and
Volvo 841 front-end loaders have been used at Kafubu log yard for unloading.
Hauling
10.       Two basic logging and transport methods have been used:  tree-length
mostly for eucalyptus, and shortwood mostly for pine. Eucalyptus is difficult
to convert in the field because of fast splitting.
For transporting logs to the production units the following equipment has
been used:
-  15 ton Leyland Arctic, articulated trailer (5)
-  7 ton Leyland Albion with short trailer (2)
-  35 ton Leyland Hippo, articulated trailer (1)
-  14 B450 farm tractor with long trailer (2)
-  BMI - Volvo 860 forwarder (1)
The average transport distance has been about 25 km. Tractors with trailers
are more economical than lorries when the tra5sport distance is less than 20
km. A total volume of approximately 60,000 m was delivered in 1975 and
again in 1976. Loading and off loading have been the bottlenecks of logging.
The situation has improved at the end of 1976, when IPD got two new hydraulic
Atlas grapple loaders mounted on an old Leyland chassie, and the old Hy-Mlac
and Hiab loaders were repaired. In addition, one Caterpillar 920 front-end
loader has been borrowed from the sawmill for loading heavy eucalyptus saw
logs.
11.       During 1975 and 1976 the Logging Section has got the following new
vehicles:
- 4 IH 674 farm tractors
- 1 Leyland 5 ton truck (service transport)
- 1 Land Rover pick up (service transport)
- 1 Peugeot 404 pick up (for supervision)
- 1 Honda 90 motor cycle (for supervision)
- 2 Atlas grapple loaders



ANNEX 5
Page 6
At the same time the following vehicles have been written off or transferred
to other sections:
-  2 14 674 farm tractors
-  4 14 674 farm tractors
-  3 Leyland Albion Arctic
-  1 Leyland 7 ton truck
-  1 Timberjack 220 skidder
-  1 VW combi service car
-  2 honda 90 motor cycles
In two years' time the Logging Section has lost 7 tractors and 3 lorries while
only 4 tractors have been replaced. However, the capacity of extraction and
transport has been sufficient. The use of the Caterpillar 518 skidder and BM
- Volvo 860 forwarder (both 1974) has been satisfactory. A vehicle list is
given in Table 2 and utilization of the vehicles in Table 3.
All the vehicles have been serviced and repaired by IPD's own workshops.
However, the services have not always been adequate.
Costs
12.       The costs of different logging operations have been as follows:
Chati/Lamba Plantations (including other plantations except Ndola).
Felling         55,471 m3  -  K 45,711  =  K 0.82/mr3
Extraction      52,128 m   -  K 54,488  =  K 1.05/mr3
Transport       54,526 m 3  -  K 97,563  =  K 1.79/mr3
3
Total per delivered mi         K 3.66
Ndola Plantation
3                           3
Felling          4,912 m   -  K  4,110  =  K 0.84/m
Extraction       5,167 m3  -  K 17,544  =  K 3.40/mr3
Transport        5,426 m3  -  K 11,437  =  K 2.11/mr3
Total per delivered mr
(excluding contractor)    =  K 6.35
3
Total IPD per delivere        = K 3.91
In addition there are costs of housing, protection clothes, workers' transport,
supervision (civil servants), office materials, etc. which are not included in
the costs shown above.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Labour
13.       The availability of labourers (including chainsaw operators and
tractor drivers) has been good. However, the Logging Section has a shortage
of qualified lorry drivers. The monthly labour strength is shown below.
MONTHLY LABOUR STRENGTH
(at the end of each rmonthJ A
Pelling       _ Extraction  _ Transport               Tot al
M4O0TH                                           ||h
4H  ,C  d  ID    -j    '- Cd  ax $ d  *4 'H rJ  C!   O-    r-   ;    -  1    Cs  O4  d
0:  O  Sl o   -US e   s                  4  4-E  '- s  b        o  s   P 
m    0 E_ U).   ;   0  -4      0    E-i-  E-4 0
JAN     49  8  -  57  34  5   -  39 13  2    -  15  5  100  16  -  il6
FEB     51  8  2  61  33  5   -  38 13  2    3  18  6  102  16  5  123
MAR     518  2C 6    30  5  237            2      3  16  7   98  16 7  121
APR     51  8 -  59  32  5   -  37 14  2    -  16  8 104 16  -  120
MAY      50  -  -  50  30  5   -  35 15  2    -  17  8  102   8  -  l O
JUN     50 8  -  58  30  5   2  37 14  2    -  16  5   98  16  2  116
JUL     49  8  -  57  30  5   -  35 13  3    -  16  6   97  17  -  114
AUG     31  9  18 58  26  5   4  35 13  2    1  16  6   75  17  23 115
SEP     38  9  12 59  3;  5   -  36 13  2    -  15  6   87  17  12 116
OCT     34  9  12 55  20  4   8 4o 13  2    -  15  6   80  16  20 116
NOV     46  10 -  56  31  6   -  37 15  2    -  17  7   98  19  -- 117
DEC     54  9  -  63  31  6   -  37 13  4.   -  17  7  104  2Q  -  124
Averag  46  8  4  58  315   1  37 13  2    1  16  6   95  16  6  117
Road Construction and Maintenance
14.       Grades have been constructed using medium size crawler tractor (CAT
D-6), with little difficulty. Front end loader, and 10 cu m. dump trucks have
been used for delivery of surfacing material. Small motor graders of the CAT
120 G type have been used for surfacing and maintenance. Main line roads have
been constructed with a strong central crown to provide good drainage during
the flash runoffs of the early part of the rainy season. Compartment roads are
all workable in the dry season, but require selective utilization in wet periods.
Road construction cost is included in the plantation component; maintenance for
current logging is in logging component.
Project Proposals
15.       The Project does not propose any substantial modifiction of the IPD
logging methods which have been well-proven over the years, but rather a re-
inforcement of its capacity through replacement of worn-out equipment and
provision of sufficient additional equipment and labor to enable the Logging



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Section to3handle 120,000 m  roundwood a year instead of the present 60,000 m
(120,000 m roundwood a year is the rated capacity of the sawmill proposed
under this Project).  In the selection of new logging and log transport equip-
ment for the Project, a special effort would be made to reflect the lessons
learnt in the last few years regarding the actual service and reliability
records of various types of equipment, as reflected in paragrapoh 11 above..
Logging Project Costs are in Table 1.  A list of IPD's logging vehicles as of
January 27, 1977 is in Table 2 and the record of their use in Table 3. IPD's
logging and log transportation achievements during 1975 are summarized in
Table 4.



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PR3JECT - PHASE II
Loggirg-Costs
(2C05t5
Equipment                                           1978                      1979               1980              1981               1982              Total             F:reir.        Foreign
Year 1                   Year 2             Year 3            Year 4              Year 5                               Exchange       Exchange
Number Price (K) Amount    Number Amount    Number Amount    Number Amount    Number Amount    Number Amount                     Aronunt
CAPITAL COSTS
International Harvester
Tractors B450
Massey Ferguson 16' or Equivalent           10    (10,923)    110         3         33        -      -          -       -          5        55        18        198
Loaders - Small Hydraulic Tractor
Mounted                                   1    (12,000)       12        1         12        -      -          -       -          2        24         4         48
Loader - Cat 920                            1    (45,000)       45        -          -        -      -                             - _                  1        45
Logging Trucks 15 Ton Leyland
Arctic or Equivalent                       i    (44,000)    264         2         88        -      -          -       -          4       176         12       528
Logging Trucks 35 ton                       2    (70,000)    140           -         -        -      -          -       -          -        -           2       140
Tippers - Dump Truck Type (10 m )           1    (40,000)       40        1         40        _      _          _       _          _        _           2        80
5-ton trucks                                2    (16,000)       32        -         -         -      -          -       -          -        -                    32
Grader - Small Caterpiller or
equivalent                                1    (4o,ooo)       4o        -         -         -      -          -       -          _        _           1        40
Land Rovers                                 2      (9,000)      18        -         -         -      -          -       -          -        -           2        18
Motorcycles, Honda 90                        3     (2,000)       6         -        -         -      -          -        -         -        -           3          6
Sub-total - Capital Costs                                707                                                                                             1,135         1,112          98
OPERATING COSTS
Materials - Spares, wire rope,
small tools and stores                                        64                  77                86                109                 136                 472          46'            9E
Fuel and Lubricants                                              50                 61                68                  87                108                  374          260            98
Wages                                              Daily
Fallers and Buckers                       130          5
Tractor Operators                           13       6.4
Chokermen                                   22       4.5
Truck drivers                               13       6.4
Other vehicle drivers
Loader O'perators                            6       6.4
Rc,sd Crew                                 20        4.5
Supervis^rs                                 6       11.0
200                210               220                254                 317               1,201          360             30
"verhe,dr 'All.cation of IPD
stso                                                        110                120               130                 135                150                  645          164            30
Sub-total Operating Costs                                  424                468    .          504                585                 711               2,692         1,247            50
T TAL COSTS                                                   1,131                641               504                 585                966                3,827        2,359            64



ANNEX 5
Table 2
ZAIBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Industrial Plantations - Logging Section
Vehicles as of January 1977
GRZ No.                                     GRZ No.
219B   Leyland Albion Loader               1-1779   IH 674 tractor
223B      "       I      it                1-1761       "      i
567K   Leytand Arctic Loader               1-1810       "      I
570K      "      "                         1-1861              it
693L      i1-1862                                              i t
694L      "                                1-1863              it
741L            i" 1-lb64                               "
244F     I"            7 ton               1-1434   MF 165
8792      i            7 ton               1-748    IH B450 tractor
377J      "    Hippol/                     l-d78        "
74bN   Land Rover                          1-1432      it
518P   Peugeot 404                         1-1645       "      " (winch
5-219  Hymac Loader                        1-1783   BM-Volvo 860 forwarder
5-228  BM-Volvo o41 Loader
1-1197 Hiab Loader (B450)
2-248  Caterpillar 518 skidder
5-221  Timberjack 217D skidder
17P    Honda 90 m/c
896P   Leyland 5 ton flat truck
1-1672 MF165 tractor
1/ Belongs to Marketing, used by Logging



ANNEX 5
Table 3
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
UTILIZATION OF LOGGING VEHICLES 1975
GRZ No.     Extractcd         Working    GRZ No.   Extracted    Working
or           hours                      or        Hours
Transport.                              Transport.
m3                                      m3
1-?48         4,237           386           219B      6,332         871
1-877         3,488           610           223B      1,631         350
1-878         1,968                         225B      2,196         266
1-885           221           133           567K      5,743         724
1-1177        3,611           877           570K      4,962         748
1-1196          169            78           693L      6,501         902
1-1431.       2,336           608           694L      3,247         657
1-1432           23            12           741L      3,424         588
1-1645        2,890            ..           147F        977          85
1-1434        3,583           742           576J      6,107         718
1-1779         980            176           244F      3,868
1-1780        3,123           582         Marketing  2 472
1-1781        5,347         1,063           Hippos)
1-1810        4,437           715          5-219  )
1-1811        3,731           691            L31L )
1-1861          952                          748N )  not recorded
1-1862        1,276           319            284J
1-1863        1,458           337         1-1197
1-1864          679           158            057
8)
5-221         2,566           356            5_
2-248        16,977         1,458
1-1783        5,741         1,145
December 6, 1976



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
14ONTFLY AND CUMULATIVE LOGGING RECORDS 1975
F E L L I N 1, M3            E X T R'A-C T I O  N, M3              D E L I V E R Y, M3t
MONTH       NONTHLY,       CUMULATIVE   MONTHLY             CUMULATIVE,        MONTHLY          CUMULATIVE
JAN.        6 537           6 537          6 378              6 378             6 610            6 610
FEEB        5 635          12 190          5 666              12 044            5 740           12 350
viARo       6 r-713        18 903          5 755              17 799            4 579           16 929
APRIL       4 288          23 191          4 967              22 766            6 892           23 821
MAY         4 095          27 286          4 527              27 293            5 872           29 693
JUN         4 676          31 962          4 320             31 613             4 118           33 811
JUL         4 881          36 843          4 384             35 997             5 178           38 989
AUG         5 570          42 413          4 263              40 260            4 546           43 535
SEP         4 936          47 349          4 633              44 893            5 403           48 938
OCT         4 234          51 583          4 o74              48 967            4 428           53 366
NCV         4 054          55 637          4 357              53 324            4 389           57 755
DEC         4 746          60 383          3 971              57 295            3 887           61 624
TOTAL      60 383          x              57 295                               61 642           xx
x total felling 6i 073m                              xx including 1,690m3
of which 1,690m  felled                               delivery to Furncoz
by contractor



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Sawmilling
Existing Sawmills
1.        Judging from available records, sawnwood is produced in about a
dozen main sawmills in Zambia, as summarized in Table 1. Sawnwood production
by pit-sawing in the forest is not included in this review.
2.        Kafubu Industrial Timber Enterprise (K.I.T.E) is located at Chati,
about 40 km west of Kitwe, in the Copperbelt. This enterprise, which is
owned and operated by the Industrial Plantations Division (IPD) of the Forest
Department of Zambia, consists of two sawmills, a pole impregnation plant
and a prefabricated housing plant.
3.        Tree-length eucalyptus and pine logs arrive by truck from nearby
plantations and are stacked in the log yard with wheeled log carriers. Logs
are cut to desired lengths with chainsaws before being transferred to the
log conveyor.
4.        The frame sawmill is equipped with two Finnish frame saws, installed
about five years ago and used in combination with a double edger, trimsaws and
crosscut saws. The mill handles both pine and eucalyptus logs and'has an
estimated annual capacity of 6000 cu.m. per 8-hr shift. Currently the mill is
being worked two shifts per day, producing sawnwood at the rate of 40 m  (s)
per day or 10,000 m (s) per year. The average lumber yield is estimated at
37% of the log input volume.
5.        The mill is badly in need of spare parts, but import licenses and
spare supply procedures have been slow, though improvements are expected.
There is a serious lack of trained Zambian technical maintenance personnel.
However, the Government has recently entered into a long-term agreement with
the Finnish Government, whereby the latter guarantees to supply certain key
personnel, including saw-doctors. The training component of the Project will
also help to ensure adequate staffing in future.
6.        The purlin sawmill at Chati is equipped with an old circular twin-
saw for production of 9urlins from eucalyptus logs. The annual mill capacity
is estimated at 5000 m (s) per 8-hr. shift. This equipment is very old
and necessary replacement is part of the Finnish aid package referred to in
paragraph 5 above.
7.        The Prefabricated Housing Section at Chati is currently employing
about 60 men, using basic wood working equipment such as moulders, planers
and cross-cut saws to produce about 50 houses per year.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
8.        A total of 285 men were eiaployed by K.I.T.E at Chati in 1976
including all workers at the two sawmills, the Prefabricated Housing Sec-
tion, the log yard and the lumber yard and the Pole Impregnation Plant.
9.        At present the lumber produced in the frame sawmill is of very
poor quality, for two reasons, i.e. poor log quality and inadequate sea-
soning and grading facilities. Most of the logs supplied to this mill are
from thinnings, and contain a high percentage of juvenile wood which is not
as strong as wood from older trees.  In addition, due to the serious shortage
of lumber in Zambia at present, most lumber from this mill is now sold
green, thus contributing to the poor reputation of the lumber from Chati.
The gradual replacement of logs from thinnings with regular sawlogs from
clear-cutting of pine and eucalyptus plantations should eventually result
in greatly improved lumber quality at Chati. In order to maximize sales
revenue and profit from KITE, the management would be well advised to place
more emphasis on seasoning and grading. Adequate seasoning sheds should be
erected in order to permit airseasoning even during the rainy season.
Proper grading of seasoned lumber to conform with internationally recognized
grading specifications would also help to improve the quality of Chati
lumber. These improvements are now being introduced by IPD.
10.       Dola Hill Sawmill at Ndola is also owned and operated by IPD.
The mill is used to produce pine lumber from plantation pine thinnings.
11.       The mill is equipped with circular twin saws followed by two
circular resaws and 3crosscut saws. The annual capacity of this sawmill is
estimated at 6500 m (s) per 8-hr. shift. Due to supply problems and
inadequate foaders and transport, production is presently estimated at only
about 150 m (s) per month or about 1800 cu.m.(s) per year. The mill
employs currently about 33 workers and specializes in the production of
2 x 4 inch stud lumber which is marketed rough, green and ungraded.
12.       MINING TIMBERS LTD. is now part of the RUCOM Division of INDECO.
It is currentl operating four sawmills with a combined annual output of
about 23,000 m , as indicated in Table 1. All four mills are old circular
sawmills specializing in the production of sleepers, pit-props and rough
lumber for use in the copper mines, using indigenous psecies, mainly
Brachystegia. The mills are now too old to be operated on more than one
shift per day without causing excessive wear and frequent shut downs. The
company currently employs about 600 workers. Two portable sawmills have
recently been purchased from Australia, to be located in the Copperbelt
region. No accurate information is available at present concerning the
capacity of this equipment, except for the fact that both mills are equipped
with bandsaw headrigs, suitable for saving of indigenous species.
13.       ZAMBESI SAWMILLS LTD. is al:i part of the RUCOM Division of INDECO.
This company has the longest history or all sawmills in Zambia, going back to
the beginning of the present century when the railroad reached Livingstone in



ANNEX 6
Page 3
the year 1905, creating a demand for sleepers. The predecessors of Zambesi
Sawmills Ltd. started operations at Livingstone in 1911. As the forests
around Livingstone became depleted, the company moved its operations to
Mulobesi about 130 km NW of Livingstone. It has also recently constructed
a second sawmill at Sesheke on the Zambesi river about 170 km west of
Livingstone. Both of these mills were using indigenous species, mainly
Baikiaea plurijuga ("Mukushi", also called "Zambian Teak") for the produc-
tion of sleepers, mine timbers, parquet flooring and furniture timber.
Unfortunately, both mills are now at a standstill, as a result of technical
difficulties encountered in the operation of modern sophisticated sawmill
machinery recently purchased from Europe. Apparently, inadequate provision
was made for the training of local personnel in the operation and maintenance
of such modern high-powered sawmill equipment.
14.       The Development Bank of Zambia has recently financed the erection
of a new small sawmill in the Eastern Province, for the production of lumber
from Pterocarpus angolensis ("Mukwa"). No information is available concern-
ing the capacity of this mill.
15.       Mkusi Sawmills Ltd. is a small company operating two mobile sawmills
in the forest reserve on the western side of the Zambesi river, about 30 km
upstream from Katima Mulilo. The combined production of these two mills is
reported to be about 7000 cu.m.(s) per year, consisting mainly of Baikiaea
sleepers and lumber made from PterocarpuE angolensis ("Mukwa").
16.       Makumbi Sawmill in the Eastern Province and Furncoz sawmill at
Ndola are small and have been experiencing problems in 1976. The former
recently closed down following disagreement among the shareholders after a
good start, while the latter is unlicensed and has no assured supplies.
Unit Operating Cost for Existing Frame Sawmill at Chati
17.       The Industrial plantations Division of the Forest Department of
Zambia has estimated the annual operating cost for the frame sawmill at Chati,
based on mill performance during the first six months of 1975. This estimate
has been used to calculate unit operating costs for this mill in order to
serve as a basis for comparison with the estimated unit costs for the pro-
posed new sawmill at Chati:



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Cost Item                                     K per m  (s)
Stumpage:  2.692 m  (r)  K1O -/                    26.92
Logging and log transport                          7.73
Total Delivered Wood Cost            34.65
Electric energy                                    0.48
Plant improvements                                 0.92
Operating supplies                                 0.21
Maintenance & repairs                              2.09
Mobile equipment expense                           4.00
Wages (direct labour)                              4.81
Mill supervision                                   0.70
Administration                                     3.23
Fringe benefits                                    1.62
Depreciation                                       4.27
Operating Cost         56.98
Selling Expense                                    7.15
Cost of Sales          64.13
1/   This is based on ol I stumpages charged bN IPD.  New stumpages applied
in Annex 12 (K 22/m  for Pine and K 13/m  for Eucalyptus) are now
recommended (See Annex 3)
Production and Imports of Poles
18.       Statistical information concerning the production of wooden poles
in Zambia in the year 1975 is incomplete, since only one organization, i.e.
the Industrial Plantations Division of the Forest Department of Zambia, pro-
vided the Misison with output data for such poles. The following volumes of
creosote-impregnated eucalyptus poles were produced at Chati in 1975:
Volume (m )
Transmission poles                                5571
Telephone poles                                    349
Other treated poles                               5121
Total treated poles                              11041
In addition, Mining Timbers Ltd. provided the copper refinery with substantial
volumes of smelter poles, usually made from Brachystegba species. In 1975,
the volume of such poles was estimated at about 7000 m  (r).



ANNEX 6
Page 5
19.       Imports of poles and posts during the period 1970-1974 have fluctu-
ated as follows:
Year                                 cu. m.
1970                                   857
1971                                  4463
1972                                  1557
1973                                   296
1974                                  7996
giving an annual average of approximately 3,000 m .  Creosote-impregnation is
becoming increasingly costly due to the exorbitant increase in the price of
creosote in recent years.  In 1976, imported American sreosote cost $1 per
liter, delivered in Chati, corresponding to $120 per m of impregnated poles.
The management at Chati hopes to reduce the cost of creosote impregnation
significantly by making use of Tanalith (a copper-chrome-arsenic salt) for
pressure impregnation prior to creosote impregnation.
Production and Imports of Sawnwood
20.       Import and production data for coniferous and non-coniferous sawn-
wood for the period 1970-1974 are summarized in Table 2 with estimates for
1975 and forecasts for 1980 and 1985.
21.       Imports of coniferous sawnwood ("softwood") reached a level of
56,300 m  (s) in 197i, while imports of non-coniSerous sawnwood ("hardwood")
amounted to 10,600 m (s). An estimated 1,400 m (r) of pine sawlogs from
IPD plantation! were converted to 1,900 m  (s) in 1975.  In the same3year
about 36,000 m (r) of eucalyptus sawlogs were converted to 15,100 m (s)
lumber, including purlins. Production of sawnwood from indigenous Species
(excluding sleepers and mine timbers) was estimated at only 10,000 m (s)
in 1975. This volume should increase significantly when the mills managed
by Zambesi Sawmills Ltd. are back in operation.
22.       Until about 1985, most of the pine sawlogs will come from thinnings
while the largest fraction of the eucalyptus sawlogs will come from clear-
felling.  The quality of eucalyptus lumber form Chati may, therefore, improve
with time, especially after 1982, while most of the pine lumber will have a
high content of weak juvenile wood during the project period. It is assumed
that imports of coniferous lumber will decrease slowly as the domestic pro-
duction increases, while imports of i-on-coniferous lumber for furniture would
continue to increase slowly.
Justification of Proposed New Sawriil_ for Pine and Eucalyptus Sawlogs
23.       The management of Kafubu Industrial Timber Enterprise (KITE) has
suggested that a new sawmill be built at Chati, next to the existing sawmill
there, in order to process the increasing volume of sawlogs which will be



ANNEX 6
Page 6
generated in the pine and eucalyptus plantations in Zambia.  It was r 5com-
mended that the capacity of this new sawmill should be about 20,000 m (s)
of sawnwood per year, when working one 8-hr shift per day for 250 days per
year.
24.       The conditions in Zambia provide ample justification for the con-
struction of a new sawmill for the production of pine and eucalyptus lumber.
The present capacity of existing sawmills at Chati and Dola Hill are not
sufficient to handle the increasing volume of pine and eucalyptus sawlogs
from IPD after 1978. In addition, the condition of the sawmilling equipment
at Chati and Dola Hill does not inspire confidence concerning the feasibility
of operating both these mills at capacity for 500 shifts per year, i.e. 2
shifts per day for 250 days per year, beyond the year 1980, although equip-
ment replacements expected from Finland would make a difference. In any
case, log yield projections indicate that an additional sawmill would be
required by 1978.
25.       The severity of the lumber shortage in Zambia at present can
be gauged by the fact that all the lumber presently produced at Chati and
Dola Hill can be sold at high prices, in spite of the poor quality of this
lumber, by world market standards.  Rough and green pine lumber from Chati,
in lengths exceeding 1.5 meters presently sells for K 126 per m (s), ex
mill, even though this lumber is made from small diameter pine thinnings,
having a high content of weak juvenile wood. In southern United States
(Alabama) good quality pine lumber, air-seasoned ant dressed, i.e. planed,
sells for $175 per MBF, corresponding to K 59 per m (s), ex mill. If this
lumbe5 were sold green and rough, the price would probably be nearer K 50
per m (s), or about 40% of the present price of the inferior pine lumber
produced at Chati.
26.       The price of imported coniferous lumber in Zambia varies con-
siderably depending on species and country of origin. In June 1976, prior
to the latest devaluation of the kwacha, the deliv red price of Douglas fir
lumber, cif Lusaka, was reported to be K 210 per m (s), while She cor-
responding price for Baltic pine was reported to be K 189 per m (s).
After the recent devalution of the kwacha, these prices have probably in-
creased by almost 25%.
27.       According to the same source, African grown pine from Malawi sold
for K 93.93 per m (s), cif Lusaka, and short-length pine lumber from Swazi-
land (probably rejects), used by the blockboard factory at Kitwe, for only
K 42.59 per m  (s), cif L Isaka, in 1975-1976.  Short-length pine lumber from
Chati sold for K 63 per m (s), ex mill. In other words, the pine lumber
from Chati and Dola Hill is very much cheaper than coniferous lumber imported
from North American or Scandinavia, but rather expensive in comparison with
imported pine from Malawi or Swaziland. Eucalyptus lumber from Chati sells
at much lo er prices than pine lumber:  lengths exceeding 1.  meter for
K 85 per m (s), ex mill, and shorter lengths for K 48 per m (s).



ANNEX 6
Page 7
28.       It has been assumed that the domestic demand for pine and eucalyptus
lumber in Zambia will be sufficient to keep the proposed nsw sawmill at Chati
operating on one shift per day in 1980, prodlcing 20,000 m (s) per year, and
2 shifts per day in 1985, producing 40,000 m (s) in that year. In order to
reach these production levels, imports of cheap pine lumber from neighboring
countries may have to be controlled. From a national viewpoint, there can be
no doubt that Zambia needs a new and modern sawmill to process the increasing
volume of sawlogs which will become available from the pine and eucalyptus
plantations in the near future. The recommended sawmill lay-out described
further on in this annex will be able to process anticipated volumes of pine
and eucalyptus sawlogs from IPD plantations from 1980 onwards.
Description of Proposed New Sawmill
Sawmill Design Recommended by the Management of KITE
29.       The present management of the Kafubu Industrial Timber Enterprise
at Chati has recommended the sawmill design des cribed in Figure 1. This saw-
mill would have an estimated capacity of 3250 m (r) log input per 8-hr shift,
corresponding to a lumber output of 90 m (s) per 8-hr shift, assuming the
average lumber yield to be 36%.
30.       A list of major equipment items in this mill is included in this
annex. This equipment differs in a few respects from the lay-out shown in
Figure 1. These changes were made in order to increase the efficiency and
capacity of the mill, without causing a significant increase in cost. This
mill should be able to handle logs with a maximum diameter of 48 cm and a
maximum length of 7 meters. Tree-length logs from IPD plantations are
brought by tractor-trailers to the mill log yard, where they are unloaded by
wheeled log-loaders and cut to desired lengths by means of chainsaws. The
logs are then transported by log loaders to two live log decks which in turn
transfer them to a 50-meter long log conveyor. From the log conveyor the
logs go to one of two live log decks which feed them to two adjustable
twin-saws, normally approximately 120 cm in diameter. The distance between
the saws can be quickly adjusted by the sawyer to fit the diameter of each
incoming log, making it unnecessary to sort the logs according to diameter
in the log yard. Each twin-saw is driven by a 150 HP motor.
31.       The cants from the two twin-saws are transferred to one of two
"split saws" while the slabs are routed to a circular resaw. The split cants
are routed on live roller or chain conveyors to one of two circular resaws.
The boards from the resaws are transferred to the trimming conveyor and the
slabs are routed to a linebar resaw. Wany boards form this resaw are routed
to the double edger. Edged boards go to the trimming conveyor, where all
boards are cut to desired length with trim saws. Trimmed board go to the
green chain for grading, sorting, stacking and stickering. Stickered lumber
is transferred to the lumber yard by means of diesel-powered forklift trucks.
Sawmill waste, consisting of slabs, edgings, ends and sawdust, is transferred
by means of the four waste conveyors indicated in Figure 1 to the main waste



ANNEX 6
Page 8
conveyor. All waste conveyors are located on the ground floor of the two
storey sawmill building. The method of waste utilization will be discussed
in a separate section.
32.       It is suggested that this sawmill lay-out could be improved by
replacing the "split saws" shown in Figure 1 with 3-saw edgers, which would
simultaneously remove the slabs and split the cant. The slabs would then be
routed to the slab resaw and the capacity of the two other resaws would be
increased since they would no longer be used to remove the slabs from the
split cants. This modification would only increase the cost of the sawmill
equipment by about $10,000 or about K 8,000, but would increase the capacity
of the mill by an estimated 10-20%.
33.       The sawmill building should be specially designed to fit the pro-
posed lay-out. The ground floor should consist of a 15 cm thick reinforced
concrete slab, measuring 30 x 60 meters. All waste conveyors are located on
this floor. The second floor should consist of 75 mm. thick impregnated
eucalyptus or pine planks, supported by eucalyptus poles anchored in the con-
crete. The roof should be supported by pre-fabricated wooden trusses, resting
on impregnated eucalyptus poles which are anchored in separate concrete
plinths. The clearance beween the ground floor and the second floor should
be about 2 1/4 meters, and the clearance between the second floor and the roof
should not be less than 3 meters. The green chain should be about 30 meters
long and rest on a concrete slab located outside the main sawmill building
as shown in Figure 1.
List of Major Equipment Items
The sawmill described above would contain the following major equip-
ment items:
Quantity                                Description
2     LIVE LOG DECKS - Each including 4 Strands of Chain, Steel Supporting
Framework and Drive.
2     4-ARM AIR OPERATED STOP AND LOADERS - With Controls.
1     TWO STAGE LOG HAUL, 50 m LONG - Including Supporting Steel Framework
and Drives.
2     LIVE LOG DECKS TO TWO SkWS - Each including 5 Strands of Chain,
Steel Supporting Framework ind Drive.
2     5-ARM AIR OPERATED STOP ANI.) LOADERS - With Controls.
2     TWIN SAWS - Each with 2 - 120 cm Saws, Infeed System with Log Turner,
Outfeed System, 150 HP Drive, and Controls.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
1     CHAIN TRANSFER TO CIRCULAR RESAW - Including 5 Strands of Chain,
Steel Supporting Structure and Drive.
5     CHAIN TRANSFERS - 2 From Twin Saws to Splitting Saws, 2 From
Splitting Saws to Circular Resaws, and 1 From Circular Resaw to
Board Edger, Each Including Steel Supporting Framework, 5 strands
of Chain and Drive.
2     SPLITTING SAWS - Each Including Infeed Table , Live Outfeed with
Drive, 50 HP Drive.
1     LIVE INFEED TABLE TO CIRCULAR RESAW - With Drive.
2     LIVE INFEED TABLES TO CIRCULAR RESAWS - With Drives.
3     CIRCULAR RESAWS - Each with Setwork, Inserted Tooth Saw and 75 HP
Drive.
1     LIVE OUTFEED TABLES FROM CIRCULAR RESAW - With Drive.
2     LIVE OUTFEED TABLES FROM CIRCULAR RESAWS - With Drives.
I     BOARD EDGER - With Infeed Table, Live Outfeed and 30 HP Drive.
2     LIVE BELT RETURN SYSTEMS - For Cants (Timbers) from Splitting
Saws, Each Including Supporting Structure, Belting, and Drive.
3     LIVE BELT SYSTEMS - From Board Edger and 2 Circular Resaws.
1     CHAIN TRANFER FOR LUMBER TO TRIMMER - Including 6 Strands of
Chain, Steel Supporting Structure with Return Chain Support and
Drive.
I     TWO SAW TRIMMER - With 60 cm Diameter Solid Tooth Saws, 7-1/2 HP
Motors, Power Shift; Trim Block and Dut Conveyor.
1     LIVE GREEN CHAIN - Including 4 Strands of Chain, Steel Supporting
Framework with Return Chain Support and Drive.
4     BELT TYPE WASTE CONVEYORS - 1 from Twin Saws, 1 from Splitting
Saws, 1 from Circular Resaw and 1 from Trimmer, Each Including
Belting, Steel Supporting Structure and Drive.
1     TWO STAGE MAIN WASTE CONVEYOR - Each Stage Including, Belting,
Steel Supporting Structure and Drive.
1     SWING CUT-OFF SAW



ANNEX 6
Page 10
2     25 HP COMPRESSORS
SAWS, SAW TEETH AND SHANKS FOR 1-2 YEARS - Two Solid Tooth Circular
Saw Sharpeners with 100 Grinding Wheels; 4 - Jockey Sharpeners for
Inserted Tooth Saws with 100 Grinding Wheels.
ELECTRICAL MOTOR CONTROL CENTERS - With Starters and Control
Consoles for All Motors.
TOTAL EX FACTORY                                       $753,251,000
Estimated Total Gross Weight-1lQ tonnes
Estimated Total Volume - 490 m
Estimated Inland Freight, say,                              $ 10,00.0.00
Estimated Wharfage and Handling                             $  3,000.00
Needed 1000 HP x 0.746 kw = 746 kw
Moving Equipment
3 Log Loaders, with diesel engine
4 For Lift Trucks, with diesel engine
2 Trucks, 6-tons, for transport of equipment and supplies
1 Pick-up, 3/4 tons
2 Passenger Cars
Note: Trucks for transport of logs and lumber have not been included in this
list of moving equipment. A tractor with a 12 m trailer able to carry 25-30
tons of lumber costs about $50,000 in United States, or K 40,000, ex-works.
Utilization of Sawmill Waste
34.       The integration of sawmills with other industries able to utilize
the sawmill waste is becoming increasingly important to the economics of
sawmilling in most countries. In some countries, most or all of the sawmill
profit is normally derived from the revenue obtained from the sale of sawmill
waste. Bark-free chips are usually sold to nearby pulp mills, shavings and
sawdust are utilied by particleboard plants and fiberboard plants, while the
bark can either be used as boiler fuel for generation of steam and power or
converted to useful products.
35.       Proper utilization of sawmill waste should be of particular im-
portance to the sawmills in Zambia Wt ich are processing pine and eucalyptus
sawlogs from IPD plantations. Siace the lumber yield is about 35-37%, the
main product of these mills in terms of volume is not lumber but sawmill
waste. It is therefore imperative that the management of IPD and KITE give
every consideration to available opportunities for utilization of sawmill
waste in Zambia. Four methods of utilization are presently under consid-
eration:



ANNEX 6
Page 11
(a) Bark-free chips, obtained from chipping of slabs, edgings and
ends is an excellent raw material for manufacture of pulp.
If the proposed pulp mill is finally built in Zambia, it could
utilize all the bark-free chips produced by KITE, but it would
require debarking of all incoming sawlogs, eithet by hand or
by installing a suitable ring barker. Bark-free slabs and
edgings can also be used as raw material for manufacture of
particleboard and waferboard.
(b) Chips, sawdust and bark can be utilized for the manufacture
of wet-process hardboard and medium-density fiberboard.
(c) Since there is a need to increase the production of charcoal
in Zambia, it is recommended that a study be made of the
feasibility of producing charcoal for domestic use from
carbonization of available slabs, edgings and ends at Chati
in suitable stationary brick ovens.
(d) The use of sawmill waste as industrial fuel is becoming
increasingly popular as a result of the exorbitant increase
in the price of fuel oil. For example, in the United States
bark and sawdust are sold as industrial fuel for $3.50 per
ton, ex mill, for the generation of steam and power.
36.       The production of chips from sawmill waste would require that a
suitable chipper be installed at the end of the main waste conveyor, together
with chip-conveyor and chip-storage bins for loading of trucks. The exact
cost of this chipping plant cannot be estimated with any acceptable degree
of accuracy at present, since the method and location of chip utilization
have not been decided upon.  However, the main investment - apart from a
ring barker - would be the chipper. A high-quality 180 cm chipper, driven
by a 250 HP motor, costs presently $15,000 in the United States, installed.
The cost of a complete chipping plant at Chati, including chipper, conveyor
and storage bins is not likely to be less than K 25,000.
Location of Proposed New Sawmill
37.       The location of the KITE sawmill at Chati was determined mainly
by the proximity to existing eucalyptus plantations, in order to reduce the
cost of log transport. However, consideration has also to be given to the
cost of transporting sawmill waste to the pulp mill. Since this mill would be
located on the Kafue river, to facilitate effluent disposal and to provide an
adequate supply of process water, it is not a foregone conclusion that Chati
would be the most economical location for the proposed new sawmill. After
considering the pros and cons of the two alternative sites, Government has
decided, and the Bank has agreed, that the most economical site for the
Project sawmill is at Chati, where there is already sufficient land, labor,
water, management and other supporting infrastructure. A future sawmill
(probably in 1982) would be built at the site of the pulp and paper mill.



ANNEX 6
Page 12
38.       As mentioned above, the estimates of capital requirement and pro-
duction cost contained in this annex refer to the sawmill recommended by
the management of KITE (i.e. Figure 1) with one exception, i.e. the two
splitting saws have been replaced with two triple-saws. This increases the
capital investment estimate by approximately K 10,000, but will result in a
significant increase in mill capacity.
Capital Requirement for Sawmill Described in Figure 1
Design Capacity:  12.5 m 3lumber per hour
Average Production:  10 m3 (s) per hour
80 m  (sA per 8-hr shift
20,000 m (s) per year, working 250 days per year
Lumber yield: 37% of log volume under bark
Monetary Unit: Kwacha (K)
Assumed Exchange Rate: 1 K = $1.25
Kwacha
Sawmill Equipment, created for export, fob Cattanooga, Tenn.          625,000
(Estimated gross weight 180 to9nnes)
(Estimated total volume 490 m )
Estimated land and sea freight                                         100,000
Sawmill Equipment, cif Chati                                725,000
Installation Cost                                                     175,000
Sawmill Equipment Installed                                 900,000
Contingencies (including chipping plant)                                75,000
Fees paid to Engineering and Contracitng firms                          75,000
Site preparation (levelling and surfacing)                            250,000
Building, 2-storey, on concrete slab foundation                       300,000
Moving Equipment                                                       250,000
Machine shop equipment                                                 100,000
Extra spare parts and stores                                          150,000
Interest during construction                                          100,000
Total Plant Cost                                      K  2,000,000
Working Capital
For 1-shift operation                                              K  400,000
For 2-shift operation                                                 600,000
Estimated Capital Requirement
For 1-shift operation                                            K  2,600,000
For 2-shift operation                                            K  2,800,000



ANNEX 6
Page 13
Estimate of Production Cost for Sawmill Described in Figure 1
1. One-shift Operation
Annual production:  10,000 m3 (s) pine lumber
10,000 m  (s) eucalyptus lumber
Working days per year: 250
Lumber yield: 37% of log volume under bark
K per year   K per cu.m. (s)
Wood Cost
Eucalyptus sawlog itumpage
27,027 m ( r) x K 5  1/                     135,135
Pine sawlog stumpaie
27,027 m  (r) x K 10 1/                     270,270
Logging and log,tr ansport cost
54,054 mu (r) x K  6                        374,324
Total Wood Cost                        729,729         36.49
Electric Energy
20,000 x 75 kWh x K 0.02                     30,000          1.50
Operating and Maintenance Supplies                      60,000          3.00
Petroleum products and tires                            30,000          1.50
Direct Labor:
10 skilled @ K 1700          17,000
15 semi-skilled @ K 1000    15,000
30 unskilled @ K 600         18,000
Total Direct Labor               50,000          2.50
Administration and Mill Supervision                     80,000          4.00
Allowances and Bonuses:
46% of wages for direct labor                     23,000          1.15
35% of salaries                                   28,000          1.40
Interest on Working Capital                             40,000          2.00
Depreciation:
Building  300,000 e 10           30,000
Equipment  1,400,000 + 10       140,000
Moving Equipment  250,000 e 5   50,000
220,000        11.00
Miscellaneous Overhead Costs                        __40,000            2.00
Total Production Costs (1-shift operation)           1,330,729         66.54
1/   These are the current stumpage rates use' by IPD, and not those cal-
culated and recommended in this appraisal report.



ANNEX 6
Page 14
2. Two-shift Operation
3
Annual production: 26,667 m3 (s) pine lumber
13,333 m (s) eucalyptus lumber
Working days per year: 250
Lumber yield: 37% of log volume under bark
K per year   K per m  (s)
Wood Cost
Eucalyptus sawlog gtumpage
36,036 m  (r) x K 5                          180,180
Pine sawlog stumpaie
72,027 m  (r) x K 10                         720,720
Logging and log trinsport cost
108,108 m  (r) x K  6                        648,648
Total Wood Cost                      1,549,548         38.74
Electric Energy
40,000 cu.m.(s) x 75 kWh x 0.02               60,000          1.50
Operating and Maintenance Supplies                      120,000          3.00
Petroleum products and tires                             60,000          1.50
Direct Labor:
20 skilled @ K 1700          34,000
30 semi-skilled @ K 1000    30,000
60 unskilled @ K 600         36,000
Total Direct Labor               100,000          2.50
Administration and Mill Supervision                     120,000          3.00
Allowances and Bonuses:
46% of wages for direct labor                      46,000          1.15
35% of salaries                                    42,000          1.05
Interest on Working Capital                             60,000          1.50
Depreciation:
Building  300,000 i- 10           30,000
Equipment  1,400,000 e 10        140,000
Moving Equipment  250,000 - 4 _52,500
232,000          5.81
Miscellaneous Overhead Costs                            50,000           1.25
Total Production Costs (2-shift operations)          2,440,048         61.00



ANNEX 6
Page 15
Estimate of Sales Revenue from Proposed New Sawmill
Lumber Prices
39.       The management of K.I.T.E. has recently published a price list,
giving the following prices of pine and eucalyptus lumber, ex-mill:
Eucalyptus lumber, green and rough                     K per m  (s)
Boards longer than 1.5 m                                86
Shorts                                                  48
Waney edge boards                                       25
Pine lumber, green and rough
Boards longer than 1.5 m                               126
Shorts                                                  63
Selling Expenses
40.       An IPD memorandam dated July 18, 1975, estimated that the "Cost
of Sales" fo5 the lumber produced with the frame saws at Chati amounted to
K 7.16 per m (s). In this report, it has been assumed that "Cost of
Sales" is synonymous with "Selling Expense". In estimating the Net Sales
Revenue from the proposed new salmill, it has been assumed that the Selling
Expense fill amount to K 5 per m (s) when production does not exceed
20,000 m (s) per year, but will drop gradually as production is increased
beyond that level, as shown in the table on the next page.
Net Sales Revenue
41.       In estimating Net Sales Revenue from the proposed new sawmill, it
has been assumed that the eucalyptus lumber from this mill will consist of
65% long boards, 25% shorts and 10% waney edge boards. Similarly, it was
assumed that pine lumer from the mill would consist of 75% longs and 25%
shorts. The Selling Expense was deducted from the Gross Sales Revenue in
order to obtain the Net Sales Revenue, as shown in the following table:



ANNEX 6
Page 16
Estimated of Net Annual Sales Revenue from Proposed New Sawmill
for Different Rates of Production
Annual Volume of Lumber Sold             1979        1980        1982       1984
Pine       m3 (s)                  5,000      10,000      15,000      26,667
Eucalyptus m  (s)                  5,000      10,000      15,000      13,333
Annual Sales Revenue:                      K           K          K          K
Pine lumber, longs                     472,500    945,000  1,417,500  2,520,032
"    "     shorts                    78,750    157,500    236,250    420,005
Eucalyptus lumber:
longs                            276,250    552,500    828,750    736,648
shorts                            60,000    120,000    180,000    159,996
waney boards                      12,500      25,000      37,500      33,333
Gross Annual Sales Revenue            900,000  1,800,000  2,700,000  3,870,014
Selling Expense                        50,000    100,000    125,000    150,000
Net Annual Sales Revenue               850,000  1,700,000  2,525,000  3,720,014
Anticipated Cash Flow Schedule for Proposed New Sawmill
42.       Estimated values of capital investment, production cost and net
sales revenue for the sawmill described in paragraph 33 in this Annex, have
been used to calculate the anticipated net cash flow during a ten year
period following the completion of the mill. In order to estimate the
production cost during varying rates of production, it was necessary to
classify the different production costs either as variable costs or fixed
costs. In these calculations, it was assumed that variable costs included
wood cost, electric energy, operating and maintenance supplies, petroleum
products and tires, while fixed costs consisted of labor, administration and
mill supervision, allowances, interest on working capital and miscellaneous
overhead costs. The inclusion of labor as a fixed cost is justified in
Zambia, or at least in case of K.I.T.E., where all labor is paid an annual
wage, regardless of the rate of production during each shift.
43.       These calculations show tba;- the proposed new sawmill would give
a very satisfactory cash flow, correLponding to an internal rate of return
of 32%, before taxes. As mentionsd 1;-fore, these figures are based on the
assumption that the sawmill actually tonstructed at Chati would be the kind
described in Figure 1 in this Annex. which is recommended by the management
of K.I.T.E. Estimates of net sales revenue were based on the lumber prices
now in effect at Chati and Dola Hill, and the estimate of selling expense was
based on information obtained from IPD.



ANNEX 6
Page 17
44.       Estimated net cash flow values refer to a non-integrated mill,
i.e. no sales revenue was derived from the sale of sawmill waste. If it is
decided to build either the pulp mill or a board mill, the cash flow values
would have to be revised accordingly.



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Sawmills in Zambia - 1976
Name and Location of Mill       Ownership       Species        Estimated              Estimated       Products            Comments
Sawn         gapacity           Production 1976
m  per year           m3 per year
1.  Kafubu Industrial Timber         State        Eucalyptus   12,000 (2 shifts)   10,000                 Sawnwood    Approaching full
Enterprise (KITE), Chati        IPD (FD)      and Pine      5,000                 5,000               Purlins     capacity
2.  Dola Hill Sawmill, Ndola         State         Pine         6,500  (1 shift)       2,000              Sawnwood    Recently started supply
IPD (FD)                                                                         problems
Mining Timbers Ltd.:            Parastatal
3.    Mill at Funda                  (RUCOM-      Indigenous   10,000                  5,000 (1 shift)   Pitprops,   Management problems and
4.   Mill at Kipupu                  INDECO)      Indigenous    8,750                  6,750 (1 shift)   sleepers,   outdated equipment.
5.    Mill at Luanshys.                            Indigenous    6,500                 5,000 (1 shift)   and,          New mill planned.
6.    Mill at Chisai_aX                            Indigenous   10,000                 6,ooo (1 shift)   sawnwood
Zambesi Sawnills Ltd.:          Parastatal
7.    Mill at Mulobesi               (RUCOM-       Indigenous   10,000                 2,500              sawnwood    Out of order throughout
8.    Mill at Sesheke                INDECO        Indigenous   10,000                 2,500              sawnwood    most of 1976.
9.  Mkusi Sawmills, Sesheke          Private       Indigenous    7,000 (2 mobile       7,000              sawnwood    Efficient full capacity
sawmills)
10.  Maknumbi Sawmill, E. Province   Private        Indigenous    5,000                 2,000              sawnwood    Part of year only.
Management problems
11.  Furncoz Sawmill, Ndola           Private       Indigenous    4,ooo                 3,000              sawnwood    Not licensed.
Variable supplies
Source: Chief Conservator of Forests, Forest Department, Republic of Zambia.
February 22, 1977



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT- PHASE II
PRODtCTION. IMVORTS AND APPAkENT CONSUMPTION OF SAWNWOOD IN ZAMBIA
! 1979-1975 WI   FORECASTS TO 1985 (EXCL., SLEEPERS & MINTNC TIMI'ERS)
(1000in W
3970           1971             1972            1973             1974             1975             1980            1985
______.__l9701971__  _197319145(Estimate)                                          (Estimate)      (Estimate)
COt IFER s S, UNW.W e
Irui,,rta                                37.6             47.2            45.5             24.7            56.3             58.5             50              40
Produc.lon (Fine)                            -               -                -             1.5              2.5             1,9             25              42
Ajll. : -ksumption                       37.6             47.2            45.5             26.2            58.8             eO.4             75              82
NON^i'0N tEiNt'O' S.. "UOO0D
1l.wport;                                10 3             20.1             9.b              3.2             10.6            20               25               30
vr 10tt.ct1un:
5ndJpeur;us Speeies                   3U.6            35.9             28.0            28.3             29.3             10.0            30               40
kuceal\2tus                              _              1.0            12               3.1             8.0             15.1             21              24
App. Co0nsumiption                       40l9             57.0            39.0             34.6            47.9             45.1             76               94
TMrIAI. SAWNWOou
lxpo :ts                                 47.9             67.3            S5.3             27.9            66.9             78.5             75               70
Production                               30.6             36.9            29.2             32.9            39.8             27.0             76              106
App. Coulsumptio0l                        78.5           104.2             84.5            60.8            106.7           105.5            151              176
1 t0



ZAMBIA
IND,JSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
TEN YEAR CASH FLOW SCHEDULE FOR PROPOSED NEW SAWMILL
YEAR      0         1       2 & 3        4           5         6-9         10
1978      1979    1980-1981    1982       1983       1984-88      1989
PRODUCTION & SALES
Pine Lumber m3                 -       5,000    10,000      15,000     26,667     26,667        26,667
Eucalyptus Lumber  3                   5,000    10,000      15,000     13,333     13,333        13,333
ANTICIPATED CASH FLOW
Net Sales Revenue       K      _     850,000   1,700,000   2,525,000  3,720,014  3,720,014    3,720,014
PRODUCTION COST
Variable             K             24,900     849,800   1,342,200  1,789,600  1,789,600    1,789,600
Fixed                K            261,000     261,000      418,000    418,000    418,000       418,000
TOTAL PRODUCTION COST   K             85,900   1,110,800   1,760,200  2,207,600  2,207,600    2,207,600
INVESTMENTS
PLANT COST              K -2,200,000
REPLACEMENT OF VEHICLES K                                              - 250,000
SALVAGE VALUE           K                                                                         500,000
NET CASH FLOW           K -2,-200,000  64,100    589,200      764,800  1,262,414  1,512,414    2,012,414
NOTE:  SALES REVENUE BASED ON LUMBER PRICES PUBLISHED BY K.I.T.E. 1/7/76
ALL AMOUNTS EXPRESSED IN KWACHA (1 KWACHA = $1.25).
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN: 32%                                                                                        U O
(with current IPD wood costs.  For rate of return based on new recommended wood
costs, see Annex 12).



60  m     ____
13   4H-i,1=i11215 t~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 LL
A               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 
i_ 1111                                        6
17~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
i            r                               L        a          se1I I I I I1
S ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 7                                          
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 I^ I I8 I   II_
1. TWIN SAW
2. SPLIT SAW
3. RE-SAW
4. DOUBLE EDGER
5. CROSS-CUT SAW
6. CHAIN CONV. FOR LOGS
7. CHAIN CONV. FOR LOGS
i   '  16 1            8. CHAIN CONV. FOR PURLINS
9. X-CONV. FOR HALVES
10. X-CONV. FOR SLABS
-        -    _          11. BELT CONV. FOR SLABS
_~F1    -    -          12. X-CONV. FOR SLABS
13. BELT CONV. FOR WASTE
14. TRIMMING TABLE                                     ZAMBIA
15. CROSS-CUT SAWS                  INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT -PHASE 11
LIII i  t16. GREEN CHAJN
17. BELT CONV. FOR LUMBER               IPD PREFERRED SAWMILL LAYOUT
I    illI                                                        
j1J |                    LOG INPUT 250m3/ONE SHIFT                                                                     a
LABOUR 45 MEN/ONE SHIFT
World Bank-17035



ANNEX 7
Page 1
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT II
PRELIMINARY EVALUATION OF PROPOSED PULP
AND PAPER MANUFACTURE
Introduction
1.        The establishment of a pulp and paper mill to utilize part of the
wood generated by the industrial plantations has been under consideration by
the Government for several years. Conceptual planning for this project is
reasonably well advanced. This Annex presents a brief description of the
major features of the development as presently conceived, and reviews finan-
cial and economic implications.
2.        The United Nations Development Program established a Forest Indus-
tries Feasibility Study Project in Zambia in 1967, executed by and staffed
with FAO personnel. In 1970, as part of this study, FAO commissioned the
Canadian consultants Sandwell and Company Limited to assess the technical
and economic feasibility of manufacturing pulp and paper from plantation
wood. Sandwell concluded that the most appropriate development would be
a mill of approximately 38,000 tons annual capacity, starting up in 1980
and producing unbleached industrial paper and paperboard. This conclusion
was endorsed by the FAO Project. In 1973, Finnish bilateral aid financed
the consultants Jaakko Poyry to carry out pre-investment studies of various
forest-based industrial plants, including pulp and paper mills. Poyry also
concluded that the best first-stage development in pulp and paper would be
an unbleached paper and board mill to start up in 1980. However, they
suggested that the nominal design capacity could be increased to 55,000 tons.
Subsequent market work commissioned by the Bank in connection with appraisal
of the second forestry project indicated that Poyry had overestimated the
domestic market and that a smaller mill would be more appropriate. INDECO,
the Zambian Government agency with responsibility for implementing the pulp
and paper project, has agreed with this conclusion.
3.        Final exact configuration of the project has not been determined
but there now appears to be a concensus with respect to the following
features:
(i) The mill would produce lirerboard, corrugated medium, sack
paper, bag paper and wrapp. g paper using the kraft pulping
process;
(ii)  The mill would have a total production capacity of the
order of 40,000 tons annually; and
(iii)  The mill would start up in about 1982.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.        This is the project which is subject to preliminary evaluation in
this Annex. The evaluation is based on the work of consultants who have
undertaken work in Zambia on this project over the past several years, sup-
plemented with information obtained by Bank staff on various missions to
Zambia. Where necessary, the available information has been modified to fit
the project concept described above.
The Sponsor
5.        At the present time, all paper consumed in Zambia is imported, most
of it from Scandinavia and North America. There is thus no manufacturing in
the pulp and paper sector although there is an active converting industry.
There are five converters producing corrugated boxes, paper sacks and paper
bags and these operations account for most of the country's demand (with the
exclusion of wrapping paper) for the products of the proposed paper mill.
Although these industries appear to be well-run and moderately profitable,
they are not of a scale where they could realistically contemplate backward
integration into the primary manufacture of paper and paperboard. In Zambia,
a project of this magnitude would necessarily have to be sponsored in the
public sector.
6.        The Zambian Government's policy is generally to keep all forest in-
dustrial projects under the control of the Forest Department but in this
case, the scale and complexity of the proposed development are such that
INDECO's experience would be invaluable. INDECO holds a majority interest
in virtually all major manufacturing industries in the country, including
fertilizer, brewing, cement, and many household products such as soaps and
cooking oils. Although outside assistance with respect to technical matters
will be required, INDECO is clearly the best equipped agency to handle a
major pulp and paper project.
7.        INDECO has been actively looking for a foreign technical partner
for the project. A number of companies have shown interest but, as yet, no
agreements have been finalized. INDECO recognizes that successful implemen-
tation of the project is dependent on locating a competent technical partner.
The Market
8.        From the various estimates of projected paper and paperboard de-
mand which have been developed for Zambia, the following figures have been
selected as being the most realistic.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Projected Consumption of Linerboard, Sack Kraft
Bag Paper and Wrapping Paper
Year                      Quality
(tons)
1974 (actual)             11,000
1980                      24,000
1985                      32,000
1990                      41,000
9.        A mill of 40,000 tons capacity starting up in 1982, although it
would not reach full production for 4-5 years, would have to export several
thousand tons of paper for several years in the mid to late 1980's. Zambia
is not particularly well located with respect to export markets with the ex-
ception of those in the Katanga province of Zaire. However, provided suffi-
cient incentive were offered in the form of low prices, little difficulty is
anticipated in finding markets for the relatively low tonnages involved.
10.       The delivered prices of kraft paper and board are high in Zambia,
primarily because of the high costs of ocean and landfreight, but also be-
cause of the relatively small volume of paper purchased. An analysis of
several grades indicates that paper prices landed in Ndola are some K 160-
K 240 (US$200-300) per ton higher than the CIF Western Europe port price
for the same grades. Prices have moved through some exceptionally high
levels in the past 2-3 years, but are currently recovering from rather low
levels. Under these circumstances it is difficult to determine an appro-
priate price to use for project analysis. In the long term, it appears in-
evitable that prices will rise above present levels as they are not now high
enough to attract new capital into the industry. On this basis there is
some justification for choosing price levels towards the high limits of
recent experience. However, in order to avoid the possibility of overstat-
ing the potential returns from the project prices representing the average
of the experience of the past two years have been used. Mill net prices
developed in this way are as follows:
Mill-net Paper and Board Prices
Used in Revenue Estimates
Grade                             Mill Net Price
(K/ton)   (US$/ton)
Linerboard                         400         500
Sack Kraft                         500        630
Fluting                            380        470
Other Kraft paper                  550         690



ANNEX 7
Page 4
11.       For export sales, the prices would depend on the market.  In Katanga
province, revenues reasonably comparable to those from the Zambian domestic
market could probably be obtained but in other markets, as yet unidentified,
revenues could be substantially lower. Overall, it has been assumed that ex-
port sales would yield mill-net prices some 25% lower than those for domestic
market sales.
12.       The following table summarizes projected markets and sales revenues
for the mill as used in this analysis:
Projected Sales Volume and Revenue
Sales Volume                        Sales Revenue
Year          Exports    Domestic    Total         Exports    Domestic    Total
(Thousand tons)                       (US$ Million)
1982             -          24.0        24.0                      11.1       11.1
1983            3.4         28.6        32.0         1.2          13.3      14.5
1984            5.7         30.3        36.0         2.0          14.1       16.1
1985            5.9         32.1        38.0         2.1          14.9       17.0
1986            6.0         34.0        40.0         2.1          15.8       17.9
1987            3.9         36.1        40.0         1.4          16.8       18.2
1988            1.7         38.3        40.0         0.6          17.8       18.4
1989-2001        -          40.0        40.0          -           18.6       18.6
The Pulp and Paper Mill
13.       The project for the purpose of this analysis is essentially confined
to the mill-site itself. The proposed site is well located with respect to
rail and road transportation and is close to the city of Kitwe. Thus costs
for associated infrastructure would be relatively small. No investment in
forestry has been included as it has been assumed that pulpwood would be
delivered to the mill gate at a price which would be high enough to cover all
costs, including the recovery of capital in plantations, logging roads and
equipment.
14.       The mill would produce sack kraft, linerboard, corrugating medium
and other kraft paper according to the needs of the domestic market. It has
been assumed that fiber furnishes would be 100% pine pulp for all grades ex-
cept corrugating medium where eucalyptus pulp together with waste paper would
be used. The mill would be located on the bank of the Kafue river, close to
Kitwe. Earlier studies showed this river to have an adequate flow of water
for the mill's requirements but the situation is reported to have changed some-
what as there is now some possibility of a dam being built in the area. Be-
fore the mill designs can be finalized, further up-to-date information on
the river flow will be required.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
15.       The pulp mill would consist of a wood preparation plant, digesters,
a washing and screening plantt anid a full chemical recovery system. The paper
mill would comprise a single paper machine with a stock preparation line.
Mill services would include a water treatment plant, process steam system,
maintenances and technical facilities and an effluent treatment system.
Electric power would be purchased. Although for this analysis it has been
assumed that fuel for the plant would be purchased as residual fuel oil, con-
sideration should be given to burning waste wood as fuel.
16.       As noted, the selected location for the mill eliminates the require-
ment for any substantial investment in infrastructure. However, some costs
may be incurred in extending the railway line into the site, improving the
access from the main Kitwe-Ndola road, extending power lines to the site,
and providing housing for key staff. For these purposes, a lump sum esti-
mate of K 3 million has been included in the capital cost estimates.
Project Costs
17.       The total project cost, in 1977 prices, is estimated to be K 70.0
million (US$88 million) as summarized in the following table:
Estimated Project Costs in 1977 Prices
Amount               %
(K Million)   (US$ Million)
Civil Works                                8.8            11.0       13.9
Freight & Equipment                       32.0            40.0       50.4
Erection                                   5.7             7.1        9.0
Construction Overhead                      2.5             3.1        3.9
Engineering                                3.8             4.8        6.0
Project Management                         2.6             3.2        4.1
Total Plant Cost                          55.4            69.2       87.3
Infrastructural Items                      3.0             3.8        4.7
Initial working Capital                    3.0             3.8        4.7
Pre-operating Expense                      2.1             2.6        3.3
Sub-total                                  8.1            10.1       12.7
Base Cost Estimate                        63.5            79.4      100.0
Physical Contingencies                     6.5             8.1       10.5
Project Cost (1977 Prices)                70.0            87.5      110.5



ANNEX 7
Page 6
18.       The Basic Cost Estimate presented above has been derived from the
latest estimates undertaken by Jaakko Poyry, revised as necessary to fit the
agreed-upon project concept and adjusted to 1977 prices. Physical contingen-
cies have been added to give a margin of safety to the estimate but price
escalation and interest during construction have not been included. The
Total Project Cost shown is therefore less than the total financing required
for the project. No financial plan for the project has been prepared.
Operating Costs
19.       Projected manufacturing costs per ton of paper produced, excluding
depreciation, as summarized in the following table. These costs are based
on operation at the full design production rate.
Manufacturing Cost at Full Capacity
Item                                     Amount
(K/ton)    US$/ton)    (%)
Wood                                     45.3       56.6       23.5
Chemicals                                16.6       20.8        8.6
Other Operating Supplies                 24.0       30.0       12.4
Fuel and Power                           41.4       51.7       21.4
Labor                                    19.8       24.8       10.3
Administration & Overhead                45.9       57.4       23.8
Total                                   193.0      241.3      100.0
20.       The wood costs are based on the projected delivered price of the
various types of wood used, developed as follows:
Estimated Delivered Wood Cost
to Pulp Mill
Type of Wood            Volume   Pric  /1   Deliv9r              Total
(m /A)   (K/m )       (K/m )       (K/m )    US$/m )
Pine smallwood                135,000    5.0           6.0         11.0      13.7
Eucalyptus smallwood           20,000    3.0           6.0          9.0      11.3
Sawmill waste                  40,000    3.5            -          3.5        4.4
Total                   195,000                               9.3       11.6
/1   The "price" represents stumpage for the smallwood, and a transfer
price based on fuel equivalent for the sLWMill waste. An assumption
implicit in this data is that a new sawmill will be constructed adjacent
to the proposed pulp mill.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
21.       Other manufacturing costs are based on the projected material con-
sumption data and prices provided by Jaakko Poyry, updated to 1977 prices and
adjusted to fit the project concept under consideration.
Financial Projections
22.       Financial projections for rate of return calculations have been pre-
pared in constant 1977 prices and are attached to this Annex as Table 1.
These projections incorporate realistic assumptions concerning the rate,of
build-up to full production capacity, and for the cost of an expatriate start-
up and training crew. The financial rate of return after taxes computed from
these projections is 9.7%. As usual, the rate of return is sensitive to
changes in product prices, and less sensitive to changes in capital or operat-
ing costs. Variations in the rate of return as a result of changes in basic
assumptions are summarized in the following table:
Sensitivity Analysis of Financial Rate of Return
Rate of Return
(%)
Base                                            9.7
Sales revenue increase by 10%                  11.9
Sales revenue decrease by 10%                   7.4
Capital cost increase by 10%                    8.7
Manufacturing cost increase by 10%              8.7
Economic Rate of Return
23.       In order to get an estimate of the economic internal rate of return
of the project, the following adjustments to financial costs and benefits have
been made:
(i) Foreign exchange costs and benefits were estimated using a
shadow exchange rate of US$ = K 0.9 instead of the official
US$1 = K 0.8; and
(ii) Local labor was shadow priced at 60% of the financial cost.
On this basis, the economic rate of return from the pulp and paper mill pro-
ject has been determined to be 11.2%.



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Financial Projections for the Proposed Pulp and Paper Mill
Item                                1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989-2000      2001
(Thousand tons)
Sales Volume
-  Export                                                                      -       3.4       5.7       5.9       6.0       3.9       1.7          -             -
-  Domestic                                             _                   24.0      28.6      30.3      32.1      34.0      36.1      38.3        40.0         40.0
-  Total                               -         -         -         -      24.0      32.0      36.0      38.0      40.0      40.0      40.0        40.0         40.0
(K Million)
Revenue                                -         -         -         -       11.1      14.5     16.1      17.0      17.9      18.2      18.4        18.6          18.6
Operating Costs
-  Wood                                                                       1.1       1.4      1.6       1.7       1.8       1.8       1.8          1.8         '1.8
-  Conversion                                                                 4.7      5.3       5.6       5.7       5.9       5.9       5.9         5.9           5.9
-  Expatriate Assistance                                                      1.6       1.2      1.2       0.8       0.8       0.4        -         _-              -
-  Total                               -         -         -         -        7.4       7.9      8.4       8.2       8.5       8.1       7.7          7.7          7.7
Cash Generated from Operations         -         -         -         -        3.7      6.6       7.7       8.8       9.4      10.1      10.7        10.9          10.9
Capital Costs
-  Plant                              2.4      15.4      25.9      13.7       3.0       1.5      0.6       0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7          0.7         (6.7)
-  Working Capital                                                  1.0       2.0                                                                                 (3.2)
-  Infrastructure                                         1.0       2.0
-  Pre-operating, etc.                                    0.4       1.7
-  Total                              2.4      15.4      27.3      18.4       5.0       1.5     0.6        0.7        0.7      0.7        0.7         0.7         (9.9)
Net Benefit                          (2.4)   (15.4)   (27.3)   (18.4)        (1.3)      5.1      7.1        8.1       8.7       9.4      10.0        10.2         20.8
H> 



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Summary Project Costs
(K,OOO)
1978         1979      1980       1981       1982      Total     Foreign Exchange
Year 1      Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Amount    Amount           %
Plantations 1/                         3,679        2,601      3,248      2,738     2,672    14,938       6,248    42
Logging and Transportation 2/             707         173        -          -          255     1,135      1,112    98
Saw Mlilling 3/                        2,2QO                                -                  2.2QQ      1;46o    66
Staff Training and Fellowship 4/          20           20         20         20         20       100         80    80
Studies and Trials on Land Clearing
and Charcoal Prod+icticn 5/             66           59         77         36         18       256        114    44
Total Base Costs                       6,672        2,853      3,345      2,794     2,965    18,629        9,014   48
Physical Contingencies  6/               667          285        335        279        297     1,863         901   48
Price Contingencies I/                 1,o4o          766      1,311      1,575     2,186      6,878       3,301   48
Total Project Costs               8,379        3,904     4,991      4,648      5,448    27,370       L3,216   48
1/ Table 2 of this Annex .                         5/ Table 4 of this Annex.
2/ Annex 5, Table 1 - Capital Costs only,.         i  10; on all costs,
3/ Table 3 of this Annex.                          7/ Based upon World Bank guidelines dated January 31, 1977.
4/ Chapter IV of the main text,



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Plantations
Direct and Indirect Costs (K'OO0)
1978     1979     1980      1981     1982      Total      Foreign Exchang
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   5 Years        Amount       %
Equipment and Vehicles      1,331      239       894      446       297     3,207       3,046      95
Materials: Foreign            161      147       162      167       200        837        795      95
Local             212       200      215       222      256      1,105         -       -
Fuel and Lubricant            288      411       422      432       443     1,996       1,896      95
Labor:  Afforestation         497      541       564      586       609     2,797         -        -
Other                 319      292       320      331      396      1,658         -       -
Contract                      408      308       208       91         8     1,023         511      50
Salaries and Allowances       463      463       463      463       463     2,315                  30
Total                       3,679    2,601    3,248    2,738    2,672    14,938         6,248      46
February 24, 1977
I\3
N co



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Saw Milling 1/
K '000
1978       1979       1980       1981       1982      TOTAL       Foreign Exchange
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Amount           Amount        X
Capital Costs
Sawmill Equipment                  625          -          -          -          -         625        594         95
Estimated Land and Sea Freight  100             -          -          -          -         1O0         75         75
Installation Costs                175           -          -          -          _         175         53         30
Chipping Plant                      75          -          -          -                     75         71         95
Engineering and Contracting
Fees                              75          -          -          -          -          75         56         75
Site Preparation                  250           -          -          -          -         250         75         30
Buildings                          300          -          -          -          -         300         90         30
Moving Equipment                   250          -          -          -          -         250        238         95
Machine Shop Equipment             100          -          -          -          -         100         95         95
Extra Spare Parts and Stores    150             -          -          -          -         150        113         75
Interest during Construction    100            _           _          _          -         100         -          _
Total Capital Costs          2200          -          -          -          -        2200       1460          65
Operating Expenses
Electric Energy                    -            19         30         30         48        127         95         75
Operating & Maintenance
Supplies                        -             37         60         60         96        253        202         80
Petroleum Products & Tires         -            19         30         30         48        127         95         75
Direct Labour                      -            31         50         50         80        211         -          -
Administrative & Mill
Supervision                     -             37         60         60        96         253         -          -
Fringe Benefits                    -            27         44         44         70        185         -          -
Interest on Working Capital        -            19         30         30         48        127         -
Miscellaneous Overhead            _             16         25         25         40        106         32         30
Total Operating Costs
(Excluding Depreciation)        -           205        329        329        526      1,389         424         37
j Details in Annex 6.
February 24, 1977
1/ Details in Annex 6.
December 6, 1976
WID



ANNEX 8
Table 4
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Studies and Trials on Land Clearing and Charcoal Production ki
K. '000
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982              Foreign Exchange
Y1     Y2      Y3     Y4      Y5    Total   Amount         %
Equipment            23      23     23       -       -      69       69        95
Materials              2      4       6      4       2      18       14        80
Supervision           2       4       6      4       2      18        9        50
Labour               14      28      42     28      14     126        -         -
Consultant           25       -       -      -       -      25       25       100
Total Costs    66      59      77      36     18      256     114        44
l/ Details in Annex 4.



ZAMBIA                                                          ANNEX 8
Table 5
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Procurement Categories
K' 000
Annex    1978      1979     1980      1981     1982      Total      Foreign
No.   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5                  Exchange
Vehicle and Equipment
2      1,331      239       894      446       297     3,207
1,200      -         -        -        -        1,200
23       23       23       -        -           69
5        707      173       -        -         255     1,135
Sub-total                        3,261       435      917       446      552     5,611       5,530
Fuel and Materials           2         161      147      162       167      200        837
Fuel                         2        288       411      422       432      443      1,996
Materials                    4           2        4        6         4        2         18
Sub-t6tal                          451       562      590      603       645     2,851       2,430
Total Vehicle and Equipment            3,712      997    1,507    1,049    1,197       8,462      7,960
Civil Works
3      1,000      -         -        -         -       1,000         389
Contract                       2         408      308      208                  8      1,023        551
Total Civil Works                     1,408       308      208        91        8      2,023        940
Other Costs
Supervision and Labour         4           2        4        6         4        2         18          9
4         14       28        42       28        14       126         -
2        212      200       215      222       256     1,105         -
2        497      541       564      586       609     2,797         -
2        319      292       320      331       396     1,658         -
2        463      463       463      463       463     2,315
Sub-total                        1,507    1,528    1,610    1,634    1,740       8,019           9
Consultants                    4          25      _ -                - _                  25         25
Staff Training and
Fellowships                            20        20       20        20       20        100         80
Sub-total                           45        20       20       20        20       125         105
Total Other Costs                     1,552    1,548    1,630    1,654    1,760        8,144        114
18,629       9,014
February 24, 1977



ANNEX 9
ZA MIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'o0o)
Bank Fiscal Years                                     Disbursement
for Quarter    Cumulative
1977/78
September 1/
December 2/
March
June
1978/79
September                                      1,134            1,134
December                                       1,134            2,268
March                                          1,144            3,412
June                                           1,145            4,557
1979/80
September                                        598            5,155
December                                         599            5'754
March                                            598            6,352
June                                             599            6,951
1980/17
September                                        756            7,707
December                                         756            8,463
March                                            766            9,229
June                                             767            9,996
1981/82
September                                        766           10,762
December                                         767           11,529
March                                            766           12,295
June 3/                                          767           13,062
1982/83
September                                        934           13,996
December                                         935           14,931
March                                            934           15,865
June                                             935           16,800
1/ Loan/Credit expected to be signed.
2/ Loan/Credit expected to become effective.
3/ Project expected to be completed.
4/ Disbursements expected to be completed.
December 2, 1976



ANNEX 10
Page 1
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRY FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Financial and Economic Evaluation
Models
1.        An internal.financial rate of return (IFR) and an internal economic
rate of return (IER)Thave been calculated for one Basic Project Model and for
two Supplementary Models. In addition, the IER for the Basic Project Model
has been subjected to a series of sensitivity analyses. The models, calcula-
tions and results are described below.
The Basic Model for Project and Necessary Associated Future Investments
2.        As explained in paragraph 7.02 of the main report, the complete
Project cost stream for IFR and IER purposes consists of:
(a) The one Project sawmill ind its associated logging require-
ment - both of 120,000 m roundwood capacity per year, (the
sawmill, the second half of the logging capacity and replace-
ment of logging equipment to be financed by this Project),
and both to process wood grown under previous projects.
(b) The proposed Project (19,000 ha) plantation with its own
logging, sawmilling (3 additional sawmills) and pole treat-
ment costs (including equipment replacements) necessary to
process all of its logs.
(c) A pulp and paper mill which, it is assumed, would process
smallwood and sawmill waste from the Project plantation
described in (b) above, and from pre-1978 plantations which
are valued at opportunity cost.
3.        The detailed financial cost and benefit streams of the Basic Model,
as well as the assumptions underlying them, are set out in Table 1. The
economic costs and benefits are in Table 2. This basic model is analyzed
over a thirty-year development and p.tduction period and earns an IFR of 11%
and an IER of 20%.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Supplementary Models
4.        The two supplementary models are:
- a single sawmill model, and
- a historical plantation development model.
5.        The Single Sawmill Model is a 16-year model dealing with the return
on the proposed investment in the Project sawmill (Annex 6) and necessary
wood, logging and other associated costs. The wood, which is to come from
trees planted before this Project, is valued, for IFR calculations, at the
recommended future stumpages and, for the IER, at estimated import parity
prices, rather than at the historical IPD stumpages applied in Annex 6.
Details of the cash flows and their assumptions are in Table 3 of this Annex.
Under these assumptions, the sawmill would earn an IFR of 11.35% and an IER
of 13%.
6.        The Historical Plantation Development Model shows the IFR and IER
on the total plantation program - past, present and proposed, i.e. from 1949
to 1982 - to test whether it is still economically and financially viable
when all the investments are taken together. The cost and benefit streams for
this model, as well as their basic assumptions, are set out in Tables 4 and 5
which show that the total planting program would earn a IFR of 11% and an IER
of 14%.
Adjustments of Financial to Economic Costs and Benefits
7.        As Project financial costs are free of taxes and subsidies, it has
not been necessary to make any adjustments in that regard. Similarly, although
in the IFR wood has been valued at calculated stumpages, for the IER wood
and paper have been valued at their opportunity cost especially where (as in
the case of wood at the stump) there is no established market price. In
these circumstances the adjustment made to the financial costs and benefits
in order to obtain economic cost and benefit streams have been to:
-    convert traded goods and services from foreign to domestic
values at US$1 = K 0.9 instead of the official US$1 = K 0.8;
-    shadow-price local unskilled labour at 60% of actual to reflect
the abundance and considerable unemployment of this class of
labor; and
-    adjust sawnwood prices to reflect border prices projected in
accordance with the IBRD price forecasts at constant prices.
8.        The application of the shadow prices is clearly shown in the IER
cash flow tables of this Annex. The detailed discussion in Annex 6 shows
domestic sawn timber prices to be charged by the Project sawmill and how
they are calculated. Based on an assessment of present and future trends,



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Kenya seems the most likely source of imports for the kind of Pine sawn-
timber to be produced by the Project.  Such timber 5an be delivered in the
Zambian Copperbelt 3at a total cost of about K 128/m  for a 1.5 m length, com-
pared with K 126/m  currently charged by IPD.  There is no known aIternative
source of Eucalyptus. Applying the import parity price of K 128/m for Pine
to the IPD prices discussed in Annex 6 would result in a weighted average
sawntimber price of K 93 for the Project sawmill. This price has been pro-
jected in the IER calculations as follows:
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1985 (and after)
IBRD jorecast price
per m of sawn
timber at 1974
constant prices
(US$)                  150.9   162.6   168.1   170.8   174.8             184.1
IPD's 1976 weighted
average price pro-
jected according
to above trend
(Kwacha)               93      100      104      105      108            113
9.        The IER on the Basic Project Model has been tested for sensitivity
to changes in the cost and benefit streams with the following results:
IER
Basic Model                                            20    %
(i) Costs increased 10%                                19.25 %
(ii) Costs reduced 10%                                  23.85 %
(iii) Costs increased 20%                                17.35 %
(iv) Benefits increased 10%                             23.65 %
(v) Benefits reduced 10%                               19.05 %
(vi) Benefits reduced 20%                               16.55 %
(vii) Benefits reduced 10% at the same
time as costs are increased 10%                    17.05 %
It would seem that IER is not sensitive to small changes in costs or bene-
fits. As long as world prices increase pari-passu with Zambian costs, there
should be no problem from (i) through (iii) above. There could, however, be
a reduction in benefits as a result cf fires, disease or inadequate produc-
tion (See also Chapter VII of main report). Such risks are normal in this
kind of project.
10.       Consideration has also beev given to the possible effects on the
Project, if due to lack of funids, lack of technical expertise, or any other
reasons the proposed pulp and paper mill does not materialize. In that
event, the Project and its necessary associated future investments would



ANNEX 10
Page 4
still earn a FRR of 10% and an IER cf 20%, but on a much reduced investment
and level of activities. The economic impact is shown by the fact that the
average annual net benefits on the Project over 30 years with the pulp and
paper mill would be three times that based on sawmilling and pole manufac-
ture alone (See Charter VII of the main report). Cash flow statements of
the project with and without a pulp and paper mill are in Tables 1 and 2 of
this Annex. Discounted net values with the pulp mill (Table 7) total K 115
million, and without the pulp mill (Table 8) K 33.4 million.
11.       No account has been taken in the financial or economic calculations
of the cost of land. Actual payments for land used for the plantations have
been few, and would not make any difference to the calculations. Also, the
alternative cost of the land either in agricultural or charcoal production
terms is equally small. However, this aspect would need to be kept under
review if planting continues to expand beyond the scope indicated in this
Project.
12.       Competition from possible cheaper sources of sawn timber or of
pulp and paper outside Zambia is not likely to affect the Project or Program,
partly because of the transportation and other reasons discussed in Chapter
VI (paragraph 6.06) of the main report, and partly because the pulpmill
planned for Malawi would produce bleached pulp for export whereas the
Zambian mill would produce kraft and similar commercial quality paper, mainly
for wrapping and packaging purposes.



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Financial Rate of Return (FRR) for the Project (1978-1982)
K. Million)
Years   Project    Physical g/ Wood Cost    Total    Cost of          Total        Revenues     Revenues      Total     Revenues        Total
Base    Contingencies     for      Project  Pulp and         Costs          from          of       Project    from Pulp       Project
Cost;i/                  Project     Costs   Paper Mill   Including        Phase II     Project     Benefits    and           Revenue
Sawmill   Without  (excluding      a Pulp      Afforestation  Sawmill      Without    Paper Mill    Including
Using      Pulp    Wood.Cost)    and Paper                     Using       Pulp                     Pulp and
Pre-Phas*    and                     Mill                       Pre-Phase    and                      Paper Mill
II Wooa;1   Paper                                               II Wood     Paper
Mill                                                            Mill
1978      7.0         0.7           -         7.7       2.4           10.1             -            -           -          -
1979      3.3         0.3          0.4        4.0      15.4          19.4              -           1.0         1.0         _             1.0
1980      3.8        o04           0.8        5.0      27.3          32.3              -           2.1         2.1         _             2.1
1981      3.4         -.3          1.4        5.1      18.4          23.5              -           3.1         3.1         -             3.1
1982      3.7        o4           2.0        6.1      11.3          17.4              -           4.5         4.5       11.1           15.6
1983     2.6          0.3          2.0        4.9       8.0          12,9              -           4.5         4.5       14.5           19.0
1984      4.3         0. 4         2.0        6.7       7.4           14.1             -           4.5         4.5       16.1           20.6
1985     2.8          0.3          2.0        5.1       7.2           12.3            1.5          4.5         6.o       17.0           23.0
1986      3.3         0.3          2.0        5.6       7.4          13.0             1.8          4.5         6.3       17.9           24.2
187     '3.4         0.3          2.0        5.7       7.0           12.7            1.9          4.5         6.4       18.2           24.6
1988     5.1          0 5          2.0        7.6       6.6          14.2             5.9          4.5         6.4       18.4           24.8
1989       '          o.6          2.0        8.4       6.6          15.0             9.3          4.5        13.8       18.6           32.4
19s0     4.u          0.4          2.0        7.0       6.6          13.6             7.5          4.5        12.0       18.6           30.6
1991     5.9          o.6          2.0        8.5       6.6          15.1            13.0          4.5        17.5       18.6           36.1
19o      6.1         o.6          2.0        8.7       6.6          15.3            13.4          4.5        17.5       18,6           36.1
19X3      4.7         0.5          2.0        7.2       6.6          13.8            10.2          4.5        14.7       18.6           33.3
1994     2.0          0.2          2.0        4.2       6.6          10.8             4.8           -          4.8       18.6           23.4
1995     2.0          0.2           -         2.2       6.6           8.8             4.8           -          4.8       18.6           23.4
19Q6     1.9          0.2           -         2.1       6.6           8.7             5.0           -          5.0       18.6           23.6
1997      1.9         0.2           -         2.1       6.6           8.7             5.0           -          5.0       18.6           23.6
1998     1.9          0.2           -         2.1       6.6           8.7             5.0           -          5        18.6           23.6
1999      1.9         0.2           -         2.1       6.6           8.7             5.0           -          5.0       18.6           23.6
2000      1.7         0.1           -         1.8       6.6            8.4            5.0           -          5.0       18.6           23.6
2001      1.9         0-2           -         2.1       6.6            8.7            5.3           -          5.3       20.8           26.1
2002      7.0         0.7           -         7.7        -            14.3           10.6           -          10.6      20.8           10.6
2003      6.o         o.6           -         6.6        -            13.2           15.1           -         15.1       20.8           19.1
2004      4.5         0.4           -         4.9        -            11.5           15.1           -         15.1       20.8           15.1
2C95      4.4         0.4           -         4.8        -            11.4           15.1           -          15.1      20.8           15.1
2o06      4.4         0.4           -         4.8        -            11.4           15.1           -         15.1       20.8           15.1
2007      4.4         0.4           _         4.8        -            11.4           15.1           -          15.1      20.8           15.1
FRR without Pulp and Paper Mill   lo1.45% 
FRR with Pulp and Paper Mill       10.95%   FRR for pulp and paper mill alone: 11.65%
j Costs from 1978 to 1982 are from Annex 10, Table 1. Thereafter costs include all operating maintenance and capital replacement
expenses of Phase II plantation and project sawmill, as well as logging, pole treatment, and sawmilling costs of all Phase II
trees and costs of logging old wood for the single Project sawmill.
2/ 10% of base coRts.
Based on new recommended IPD stumpages i.e. K22/m3 for pine and K13/m3 for eucalyptus (see Table 3 of this Annex).
From Ewing model (Annex 7). Savmill waste and smallwood have no value now, and although they may be transferred to                               e
the pulp/paper mill at a book cost, the pulpmills cost would be IPD's revenue and would cancel each other when consolidated
as here in one FRR calculation.                                                                                                                    o
Decerlpr 13,1976



rable 
a             ..         .Oa.  .4a.  . . . .a .            '.  .a.   .   ..   .a.       '. .   .    f.l' .O  ..t    .
..                    ..         ..        .. .. ..                         ..
a-               ---4 ---                       ---          



ANNEX 10
Table 3
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Financial Rate of Return E.lculation For the Single Project Sawmill
(K Million)
Years   Sawmill Capital  Cost of Sawlogs    Total Costs        Total Revenues
and Operating       Utilized        Including Wood    from Project
Costs Excluding         2/                Cost          Sawmill
Wood Cost                                                2/
1/
1         4.2                 -                 4.2              -
2          .8                0.4                1.2             1.0
3         1.0                0.8                1.8             2.1
4         1.3                1.4                2.7             3.1
5         2.1                2.0                4.1             4.5
6         2.2                2.0                4.2             4.5
7         1.4                2.0                3.4             4.5
8         1.4                2.0                3.4             4.5
9         1.4                2.0                3.4             4.5
10         1.8                2.0                3.8             4.5
11         2.2                2.0                4.2             4.5
12         1.4                2.0                3.4             4.5
13         1.4                2.0                3.4             4.5
14         1.4                2.0                3.4             4.5
15         1.4                2.0                3.4             4-5
16          .8                2.0                2.8             4.5
Financial Rate of Return over 16 Years,
(after charging import parity cost for pre-Bank wood) = 11,35%
1/ From Annex 6. Excludes depreciation and wood costs.
2/ Applying the recommended stumpage rates of K22/nf? for pine and K13/m3 for
eucalyptus.
Pine   Eucalyptus   Total
Year 1     -        -
Year 2    0.3      0.1         o.4
Year 3    o.6      0.2         0.8
Year 4    1.0      o.4         1.4
Year 5
to 16    1.6      0.4         2.0



ANNEX 10
Table 4
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Firancial Rate of Return for Total Afforestation Program 149 to 198Z
Plus Sawmilling, Pole Production and Pulp and Paper Mill
(K Million)
Net Benefits of            Total Mill Cost        Total              Net Benefits
All Afforestation to 1982          Net of              Mill               of Program
Plus Logging, Sawmilling        Wood Cost1/          Revenue!/           Including
and Pole Production 1/                                             Pulp and Paper Mill
Pre 1969                 (5.1)                   -                 _                    (5.1)
1969                (2.7)                    -                 -                   (2.7)
1970                (2.0)                    _                 _                   (2.0)
1971                (2.2)                    -                 -                   (2.2)
1972                (3.2)                    _                                     (3.2)
1973                (1.9)                    _                 _                   (1.9)
1974                (1.7)                    -                 _                   (1.7)
1975                (2.3)                    _                 _                   (2.3)
1976                (0.7)                    -                 -                   (0.7)
1977                (1.6)                    -                 -                   (1.6)
1978                (4.0)                  (2.4)               _                   (6.4)
1979                (0.9)                 (15.4)               _                  (16.3)
1980                 0.1                  (27.3)               _                  (27.2)
1981                 1.1                 (18.4)                _                  (17.3)
1982                (0.2)                 (11.3)            11.1                   (0.2)
1983                 5.5                   (8.0)            14.5                   12.0
1984                 6.0                   (7.4)             16.1                  14.7
1985                 6.5                   (7.2)            17.0                   16.3
1986                 7.4                   (7.4)            17.9                   17.9
1987                 7.6                   (7.0)            18.2                   18.8
1988                 7.9                   (6.6)            18.4                   19.7
1989                 4.3                   (6.6)            18.6                   16.3
1990                 5.0                   (6.6)            18.6                   17.0
1991                 7.7                   (6.6)            18.6                   19.7
1992                10.4                   (6.6)             18.6                  22.4
1993                10.1                   (6.6)            18.6                   22.1
1994                12.4                   (6.6)            18.6                   24.4
1995                14.9                   (6.6)            18.6                   26.9
1996                14.9                   (6.6)            18.6                   26.9
1997                14.0                   (6.6)            18.6                   26.0
1998                15.7                   (6.6)            18.6                   27.7
1999                15.7                   (6.6)            18.6                   27.7
2000                18.5                   (6.6'            18.6                   30.5
2001                 8.5                   (6.(,            18.6                   20.5
2002                 8.5                     -                -                     8.5
2003                10.7                    _                 -                    10.7
2004                10.8                    _                 -                    10.8
2005                10.8                    _                 -                    10.8
2006                10.8                    _                 -                      . u
2007                10.8                    _                 -                    10.d
FRR - 11.3%b






l~I~~zIt C       'a a'a'                               -                                                                      a -                              a    -    a     -    -    '          'a    -    -     a -       -      -
CC                     'a7a                     a    a     a'           a    '    a     '    a    a '    a                    -A'    '                                              a'.                                               a '
'a    Ca  C'a                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -A~ . .    - -      - -    
'a   a'                 2         2                                                                                           g 
'a  'a  .a.' .a.                                        .a.          ..a' a '  ., ' -. - .     'a    .    a    'a        C            .C   'a   .'  'a      .    .         .    'a .             'a .       'a .
a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n-a~~~~~oixax






ZAMBIA
IITDIUSTRIAL FOPESTRY PROJECT - PHASE I1
Pinancial Rate of Return for Entire Program (1349 - 1982) WtioQlt a ?ill- ap
ActueRl 1'-1Phaae I   Actual Pre-    Phase II                                      K Million
Afforestation        Phase I     Afforestation Post 1975 Handling and Processing Costs    TOTAL                         R R ,    I 1   .-                                NET BENEFTTS
Year         Maintenance          Costs at    and Forest      Logging and   Sawmilling Cost of Treat-  PROGRAM              Sawrnil'.n-   .'a    , -    TJIAL PliOGRAY                     FOR
Logg'ng Transport I/    1976  EJ  Maintenance       Transport 4/          5/  ing Poles 5      COSTS             Bevern. ,/ P-ca.ype FIVSEUiE                                PROGRAM
and S-qMillin. Costs    Prices        Costs 3/
Pre 1q69            3.                5.1           _                _             -            -           5.1                                          -  -7                             (.71)
1969             1.7                2.7           _-                                          -           2.7                  -                       - _/                              (.7)
1970             1.5                2.3           -                -             -            -           2.3                            0-3                                             (2.0)
1971             1,8                2,6                                          -            -           2.6                                           4                                (2.2)
1972             _9                 3.9           -                -             -            -           3.9                  -          _             7                                (3-
1772                                2.7           -                _             _            _           2.7                  _          _           r,                                 (1.9)
1974             22.9                             ,                                                       2.9                             _                                              (1-7)
1975             5 ')               4.2           -                -             -            _            4.2                            _           1.9                                (S.3)
137e1                               1.5           -              1.2             -            -           2.7                  _          _           2.0                                (0.7)
1977                                2.0           -              1.2             -           0.4          3.6                  -                       .0                                (1.6)
197'3                               1.1          2.0             1.4          X 2.8          o.6          7.9                2.0         1.9          3,9                                (4.o)
1979             1.0                1.0          2.1             1.9            0.2          o.6          5.8                 3.0        1.9          4.9                                (0.9)
1980             1.0                1.0          2.1             1.8            0.4          0.6          5.9                 4.1        1.9          6.o                                 0.1
1981             0.5                0.5          ?.2             2.0            o.6          0.6          5.9                 5.1        1.9          7.0                                 1.1
1982             0.1                0.i          2.3             2.5          X 3.7          0.9           9.5                6.5        2.8          9.3                                (0.2)
1983             0.2                0.2          0.5             2,4            0.8          0.8           4.7                7.5        2.7         10.2                                 5.5
1984             0."                0.2          o.4             2.9            1.0          0.8           5.3                8.6        2.7         11.3                                 6.o
1985             0.1                0.1          0.5             3.2            1.2          0.8          5.8                 9.6        2.7         12.3                                 6.5
19%6             0.2                0.2          0.               3.4           1.5          o.8          6.3                11.0        2.7         13.7                                 7.4
192.7            0,2                0. 2         0.5              3.2           1.2          0.8          5.9                1!.0       2I5          13.5                                 7.6
1  t2 :                            0.,          0.4              3.3           1.2          0.9           5.9               11.0        2.8         13.8                                 7.9
19o.''          03.2                2.2          o.4             4.o          X 4.0          0.9          9.5                11.0        2.8         13.8                                 4.3
1990v            0.2                2.2          0.4              4.7         X 3.6          0.9           9.8               12.0        2.8         14.8                                 5.0
1991             '.1                 o1 0.4                       4.7           2.4          1.0           8.6               13.1        3.2         16.3                                 7.7
1992             0.1                0.1          0.4             5.1            2.4          1.0           9.0               16.2        3.2         19.4                                10.4
1993             0.1                O.1          0.3             5.1          R 4.6          1.0         11.1               18.0         3.2         21.2                                10.1
lqr4             0.2                0.2          0.3             5.3            2.0          1.o           8.8               18.0        3.2         21.2                                12.4
1995              -                  -           0.3             4.5            2.3           -           7.1               22.0          -          22.0                                14.9
1996              -                  -           0.3             4.5            2.3           -           7.}               22.0          _          22.0                                14.9
1997              -                  -           0.3             4.7            4.o           _            9.0               23.0         _          23.0                                14.0
1998              -                  -           0 3             4.7            2.3           -            7.3              23.0                     23.0                                15.7
1999              -                  -           0.3             4.7            2.3           -           7.3               23.0          -          23.0                                15.7
2000               -                 -           0.3             5.3            2.3           -            7.9              26.4          -          26.4                                18.5
2001              -                  -           0.3             2.3            2.3           -            4.9               13.4         -          13.4                                 8.5
2(0*              -                  -           0.3            -2.3            2.3           -            4.9               13.4         -          13.4                                 8.5
2GO3                                 -           0.2              2.5           2.3           -            5.0               15.7         -          15.7                                10.7
20i4               _                 -           0.1              2.5           2.3           -            4.9               15.7         -          15.7                                10.8
20C5              -                  -           0.1              2.5           2.5           -            4.9               15.7         -          15.7                                10.8
2006              -                  -           0.1             2.5            2.3           -            4.9               15.7         _          15.7                                19.8
2007                                 -           0.1             2.5            2.3           -            4.9               15.7         -          15.7                                10.8
TE* 10.5 l,
/   pr"-1l69 Costs from Th^ue I Appraisal ReDnrt.  1069 to 1975 costs and benefits from Phase I Project Completion Report by Brouard.  1976 and 1977
afforertxttion costs -"i bneefits estimnted.   Post-1975 maintenance costs charged at K23/ha.
/ AsrnITg the 6Or cont c-,rrun between 1969 &nd 1975 reflected inflation, accrued evenly,  and ignoring inflation prior to 1969.
FLorestatitn- eosts rer Annex 1.  Maint-ance costs estimated at K23/m3.
At K ~ z pr m3 roundwood.
',  Pha--r' introduction and replacement of 4 spvmills each of 120,000 M3 roundwood capacity per year.  Income, capital and operating
cot  rVc  Br-4tt model in Annex t  
6    t,        based on costs reported in IP2  1975 Annual Report. For production figures see Table 10 of this Annex.
7/ Tess than T 0.1 million.
9/ '.''ke Prr 1976 costs, pre-1976 revenues are inflated at 18.6Y p.a. tC bring them to 1976 levels.
a'       7 K2/s..  whic- .ins average price for treated poles in 19'5 according to IPD 1975 AnnuluI Report.
X: 4c;1t. nal s*tvmtl raquired.o
r ._ ,, zeco4e1- -a-  1reaq -l-d.



ANNEX 10
ZAMBIA                                 Table 7
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Calculation of Discounted Net Values
with the Pulp and Paper Mill
(K. Million)
Years      Project Economic   Project Economic      Economic        Discounted
Costs  2/         Benefits 2/       Net Benefits      Economic
Net Benefits 1/
10.4                -                 (10.4)           ( 9.6)
10'(9          21.0                 1.2               (19.8)          (16.8)
1)30           35.0                 2.7               (32.3)          (25.2)
1981           24.7                 4.o               (20.7)          (14.9)
1),82          17.7                23.5                 5.8             3.8
1983           13.5                27.3               13.8              8.4
1984           14.5                29.1               14.6              8.2
1905           12.7                34.6               21.9             11.3
1986           13.2                36.2               23.0             11.0
1987           12.3                37.1               24.8             11.0
19&8           10.7                37.3               26.6             10.8
1989           15.1                56.6               41.5             15.5
1990           13.7                51.9                38.2            13.2
1991           16.2                66.2                50.0            15.9
1992           16.2                66.2                50.0            14.7
1993           13.9                58.9               45.0             12.1
1994           11.1                33.2               22.1              5.5
1995            9.2                33.2               24.0              5.5
1996            9.2                33.9               24.7              5.2
1997            9.2                33.9               24.7              4.8
1998            9.2                33.9               24.7              4.4
1999            9.2                33.9               24.7              4.1
2000            8.8                33.9               25.1              3.8
2001            9.2                34.5               25.3              3.6
2002            7.2                14.5                7.3              0.9
2003            6.3                20.6               14.3              1.7
2004            4.6                20.6               16.0              1.7
2005            4.5                20.6               16.1              1.6
2006            4.5                20.6               16.1              1.5
2007            4.5                20.6               16.1              1.4
115.1
1/ Discounted at 8.5% (Present Bank lending rate).
2/ From Annex 11, Table 2.
February 16, 1977



mEfEX 10
Table 8
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Calculation of Discounted Net Values
Without the Pulp and Paper Mill
(K. Million)
Years     Project Economic   Project Economic      Economic      Discounted
Costs 2/          Benefits 2/      Net Benefits      Economic
Net Benefits 1/
1978            7.7                 -                 (7.7)          (7.0)
1979            3.7                1.2                (2.5)          (2.1)
1980            4.6                2.7                (1.9)          (1.4)
1981            4.1                4.0                (0.1)          (0.07)
1982            5.4                5.8                 0.4            0.3
1983            4.8                5.8                 1.0            o.6
1984            6.4                 5.8               (0.6)           0.3
1985            4.9                8.2                 3.3            1.7
1986            5.3                8.5                 3.2            1.5
1987            5.4                8.8                 3.4            1.5
1988            3.6                8.8                 5.2            2.1
1989            8.o               18.9                10.9            4.1
1990            6.6               16.4                 9.8            3.4
1991            8.1               24.0                15.9            5.0
1992            8.1               24.0                15.9            4.6
1993            7.8               20.1                12.3            3.3
1994            4.0                6.5                 2.5            0.6
1995            2.1                6.5                 4.4            1.0
1996            2.1                6.9                 4.8            1.0
1997            2.1                6.9                 4.8            0.9
1998            2.1                6.9                 4.8            0.9
1999            2.1                6.9                 4.8            0.8
2000            1.7                6.9                 5.2            0.8
2001            2.1                7.2                 5.1            0.7
2002            7.2               14.5                 7.3            0.9
2003            6.3               20.6                14.3            1.7
2004            4.6               20.6                16.0            1.8
2005            4.5               20.6                16.1            1.6
2006            4.5               20.6                16.1            1.5
2007            4.5               20.5r               16.1            1.4
33.4
1/ Discounted at 8.5% (present Bank lending rate).
2/ From Annex 11, Table 2.
February 16, 1977






ZAMBIA
I   G'TRA oernment PaROJC Plow  I
77-      1        7                 4        5        6        7        7         3        00       01       22       13        04      15        76       03       09       79       20       21       33         3       74       75        6        77       24       29        30
roJe-i Pen-e                    -      loO      7177    0,700    4,306    4,577    4,53O    6,CcO    7,3o7    6,473   1779407   13,037   12,303   17,577   17,900   14,700    4,787    4,800    5, 000    5,307    5,773    5.13    5,777    5. 300   30,60  15,1TOO   15,100   17,170   75,100o       15.707
BaBon 1/                      1.707    7,656    2,364    2,734    2,59w    1,7424-                       -        -        -        -        -                                                                        -0        -        -        -        --  
PIP bo                          547      931,     64s      737      713      445       -                                        
T-ta  70-0 onlo623                     4.176    1,779    7,166    7.9020   6,363    4,5331   tOO Do    7,377    7,473   17, 437   I3,70    12,090  17,507   17,93    1 4,77,0 ,00 43 ,3c S         ,3.'    5,77 DO   ,777      ,  1 5, 7,070    5 ,375   17,770   15,137 7313 15,100          15,170   15,177
P,oJe-t Post,                 0,00,    1,345    3,743    5,672    6,794    3,700    ,5050    9,307    4,470    4,soo    6,400    7,2007   s,7oo    7,330    7,537    6,703    3,377    2,277    7,177    9,137    7,177    7,173    1,407O   2, 10       7,707    6,6o7    4,303    4,7o-    4.B        4,800
5--Be Ohage                    73       73      3.0       30       11      -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -         -        -                  --
Tote-esO                      177      077      j61     3764      075    1,027      347      853      771       6735     593      5i4      4708     342      275      170        35      -        -        -        -         -        -        -        ---
Principal                            -        -                 975      975      995      375      335      975       975      375      97s      375      305      975      935       -        -        -        -        -        -         -        -                 -
Interet                        47      119      175      730      37       301      294      268      741      214       737      606      134      007       87       53       26       -        -        -        -        -         -        -                  --
PrB-cepal                                     -        -        377      377      377      308      337      3 1       377  3, ,         300      308      339      309      307       -        -        -        -        -                                        
T.tt1 Peel Ofloo              3,017    5,027    7,540    7,764    9,353    5,341    7,aD3    6,317    6,705    7,6972   7,679    3,167    7,655    3,041    5,137    7,526    4,4074    0,237      ,107)   7100    0,1710    2,700    1,775    7,703    7,7'77     6,670    4,300    4,700o   4,770    4,7.07
Net Coat Infl   (07tPlnw     (7,950)    (64o)  (1,7335    (497)  (1,457)      07   (3,533)    (313)    (4C5)    (097)   1,301l   4,633    4,345    7,45e    9,377    7,174        307    2,777    14,3   0,307       ,00     0,W "97   3,2003   7,173    2,977     7,577   4, o7 133 10,         370 10   . w I,300
A--Ioolten Pad  Flow         (6,9~5)   (7,537) (9,325)  (9,773) (u,oo)  1105)  (i4,791) (1,9)(15,574) (15,s76) (13,975)  (7,042)  (4,797)   3,567   12,331   79,537   13,971   07,571   75,473   77,331   31,201   34,177   37,331   43,771   43,401    5,371l  61,701   70,407   70,731   93.071
5803101t 00capee TePlow  ,267    4,436    4,779    6,167    7,907    6,397    ,o      6,70     6,330    6,4oo   10,400   13,707     0,701  17,507   17,973   14,707    4,007    4,7007    7,303    5,777    5,073    7,270    7,077    7.377 :,o            770 1,77 1,00510 0,0
P-ojeot Poets                 s.oo    0,373    2,306    7,903    3,522    1,974    o,96o    2,7         ,o88    2,34o    3,370    3,744    3,316    3,737    3,900    3,120    1,540    i,144    1,702    1,030    1,707    1,707        77,6   7,79     4,Do4      3,437    2,548    p,1496    o,496,    ,496
1-an Berci- 00Be        c       306      503      751    1,042    2,675    2,641   2,529  ,34i3    23,33   ~,1~9,    2079    1,i .67                1,740    1 737    1o6~  1 4o4          -        -        -                 -        -         -        ---
Total PFreigo 2,choog 
0,tflon                     5,306   2,946    3,737    3,975    5,0717    4,567    5,373    4,446    4,593    4,532    5,477    5,711    4,771    5,537    7,530    4,646    .,964    i,i44    1,030    1,0707    1,00    1,007         936    070      4,30.4     3,437    2,548    2,437    2,496    2,496
Nist ForigoZAteg
101310  (.Ithflow          (9,027)   1,54o    1,0Oi    2,771    1,787    1,800     (8993    1,554    1,707    1,867    4,993    7,073    7,1223   11,967   2,370   10,304    1,736    3,~65    3,793    3,308    3,908    3,033    4,4,64    4,707    6,596    11,667   155    0,70    12,634   17,604
eeA--lotsd F-ig.~
07wlaege            73~~~~(,000)  (1,579)    (5D6)   1,695    3,480    5,284    4,395    5,5347    7,656    3,504   14.715    167 063.29733   41,697   54,067   74,01D   65,977   63,713   73,771   77,423   71,337   37,745   73,337   933.717  770,73    11,5781  274.333  139,337  143,541  162,145
At 8 7.0  Po- 17 Yano  07th 4      gpae  -rc  period (b-ds -ro  nrld Bol enldei-Be  loted  2eiee   7, 1976,
M/Th  -e,  -ndofcoo-  as BeG  1a,, ot BoOs 1.
3/ STmo toto1 -co-tclo  of the project in ip3r  -ob.titvot, 1277 on 7Poj-t P-neo-  neolod tn bs Po-ilg  E-one.-
cecnle  17, 1976






ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Project Implementation Schedule
1977             1978               1979                1980            1981               1.982
1. Negotiations
2. Board Presentation
3. Loan Signing
4+. Effectiveness
5. Project Plantings
6. Sawmill Construction and
Installation
7. Comnissioning of Sawmill
8. Logging Expendit-ures
9   Secondary Industry Study
(SIS) - Started
10. Land Preparation and
Charcoal Production
Trials
December 8, 1976L



ANNEX 13
Page 1
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRY FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
The Industrial Plantations Division (IPD)
Origin and Oblectives
1.        IPD was set up in 1962 as a division of the Forest Department with
the primary objective of taking over and expanding Government's industrial
plantation program which had started on a trial and pilot basis more than
a decade earlier. Eventually IPD became a self-accounting unit operating on
commercial principles within the Forest Department. IPD implemented the
Bank's First Industrial Forestry Project in Zambia which started in 1969.
Present Functions
2.        Over the years, IPD's functions have expanded beyond creation and
maintenance of plantations to logging, sawmilling and production of trans-
mission poles, purlins, and prefabricated buildings. Most of these ex-
tensions of IPD's activities have occurred because of the absence of other
organizations or individuals willing to engage in these activities. Today
IPD is responsible for logging, transporting, research and development,
and processing of all industrial plantation timber. These activities
are directed from the Forest Department (and IPD) headquarters at Ndola,
and through the Kafubu Industrial Enterprises (KITE) complex, near Kitwe.
Operations Policies and Results
3.        Within the limits imposed by Government policies and civil service
employment and other codes, IPD operates like any commercial organization
motivated by profit. It aims to recover all its production costs, and within
the definition of its accounting policies (Table 1, page 5) has, since 1969,
made a profit every year but two. As a rule, IPD is integrated and self-
contained, in the sense that it provides all its own logging, transportation,
and other services. However, it occasionally hires a contractor to provide
such services in an emergency, or when its own facilities prove inadequate.
IPD operates a complete and efficient accounting system which is audited
annually by an international firm of Chartered Accountants (see Table 1).
Structure and Staffing
4.        IPD has a director, a deputy-director, and eight Sections headed
by professionally qualified and experienced staff, most of them expatriates.
The Sections and their staffing are fully set out in the Chart. Generally,
there is no shortage of unskilled staff for IPD's activities. Competition
for skilled and semi-skilled staff is stiff, as these tend to be attracted



ANNEX 13
Page 2
away by the mining and other industries on the Copperbelt, especially those
in the private sector. But the most serious staffing problem is at the
managerial and professional levels where there is still a severe shortage of
qualified Zambians. At least 5 of the 8 Section heads are expatriates on
short term (2 or 3 years) contracts. At least 4 of these expatriates are on
technical assistance. This problem is fully discussed in the main report.
It would be thoroughly addressed at negotiations, and suitable assurances
would be obtained. A management staff training component is also being
included in this Project.
Financing Arrangements
5.        All IPD's operations arc financed by loans it receives from the
Ministry of Finance. These loans totalled about K 19 million (US$23 million)
as of December 31, 1975. The loans bear interest at 6 1/2%, but repayment
terms have not yet been determined. As IPD is not a legal person, and the
idea of one Government Department lending Project funds to another is so
informal as to have practically no legal significance, since the the Govern-
ment cannot sue itself. This would be an added advantage in forming a cor-
poration to take over IPD's activities as well as wood importation and pro-
cessing. Also IPD's financial contribution to the Project (Main Report Chapter
IV) assumes a continuation of the current moratorium on repayment of existing
Government loans at least until the end of the Project period. These two
matters were therefore discussed at negotiations, and adequate assurances
obtained (see the main report). A complete set of IPD's audited accounts
as at December 31, 1975 is attached as Table 1, and projected IPD Trading
Accounts are in Table 2.



ANNEX 13
Table 1
Page 1 of 8
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROTW3CT - fAIME TI
Report of the Auditors of the Industrial Plantations Division
of the Forestry Department to:
THE PERMANEtCT SECRETARY
MINISTRY GF LANDS, NATURAL RESOURCES AW TOURISM
we have examined the accounts Of the division for the year ended
31 December 1975 set out on pages 2 to 7. It is not possible to
egtimato the not rsgliablsl value of plantations in formation end no
provision has been made for any possible losses which May occur on
reallsation. In our opiniong with this r,servationf the accounts
set out on pago 2 to 7 give a true wnd fair view of the state of
affairs of the division at 31 December 1975 and of its profit and
source and pplicatiL, of funds tor the year srndd on that date.
Ndols, Zambia
14 lay 19?6



ANNEX 13
Table 1
Page 2 of 8
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
The Industrial Plantations Division (IPD)
Prcfit andLoss Account
for the year ended 31 December 1975
.Q.tiL      1975             1974
SALES Of PRODUCE                                        1,765,058        965,621
COST OF SALES                                2          1,554t373        832,612
PROFIT ON SALES                                           210,685        133,009
SELLING EXPENSES                             3            140,638         90,984
PROFIT ON TRADING                                          709047         42,025
SUNDRY INCOME                                              75,721         62,704
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR                                       145,766        104,729
PROFITS (1974s LOSSES), BROUGHT FORWAD                    93,670         (11,059)
ACCUMIULATED PROFITS, CARRIED FORWIARD                 K 239,438        K 93,670
Tn  =M=
The notes on pages 5 to 7 ro~m part ci. these accounts



T4be 13
Page 3 of 8
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAI FQRESTRY PRQJLCT - PHASE II
The Industrial Plantations Diyision (IPD)
Balance Sheet - 31 December 1975
$   _     ZQ~75                     12?4
FIXED ASSETS                       4               3,365,462                2,876,081
PLANTATIONS IN FDRMATION                          1399238030                11,809,251
NET CURRENT ASSETS                                 1,654,146                   9120338
Timber otocke                          771,245                   326,111
Storse                           6   1,134,5?4                   189,620
Debtors                                752,513                   250,786
Short tprm deposit                       -                       000,000
Cash                                    403619                    16,656
CURRENT ASSETS                       29698,901                 1,81,1?73
Creditore                            1,044,7s5                   668,835
cURRENT LIA8ILITIES                 1044,755                    66B,Q35
Kis,943,#38              K15,597,670
financed by:
LONG TEL.1 LOAN                    7              18,704,000               15,504,000
Mtinistry of finance
ACCUMULATED PROfITS                                  239t43e                   93,670
K18,943,438              K15,597,670
........ . DIVISIONAL DIRECTOR
rF. o JDUNA
...........*.**so*g........  CHIEF CONSERVATOR OF FORESTS
B.0.M. CHIYAOJE
The notes on on pages '5 to 7 form part of these accounts



ANNEX 13
Table 1
Page 4 oIf 8
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FQRSTY  P.ROJECT, - PHASE II
The Industrial Plantations Division (IPD)
Notes to the Accounts - 31 December 1975
1.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES
(a) Plantations in formation
The cost of plantations in formation includes direct costc,
oll loon interest, depreciation charges nd overhead expense,
reduced by the accumulated costs of areas cleartelled and an
amount equal to the not proceeda of the *ales of thinnings.
It ia not possible to determine with any degree of accuracy
the estimated net realisable value of plantationa in formation
or whether this would be lee than the net costs accumulated
to date.
(b) Depreciation
Deprecietion is provided to writs oft the cost of fixed
assets over their expected useful lives by equal annial
instalmenta commencing in the year brought into use.
(c) Stocks
Timber stocks are valued at selling price.
Stores are valued at the lower of cost or not realisable
value. Cost include Import duty, transportation and
clearing charges where applicable.
(d) Salao
Saleas compris. the net abounts lnvoiced to customers.
(e) Taxation
The department is not subject to tax.
2.  COST OF SALES                                          1951974
Plantation costs eliminated in "&spect
of areas felled in the year:
Clearfolled Qreas                                  70,189       77,646
Thinningc                                         577,535      286,175
Fire dumage loss                                   42,144          -
689,868      363,821
Harvesting and cOnv*t3ion oost&                   1,217,594      542,457
Maintenance expanses                                 93,046       65,630
2,0U0,508      971,938
Lacs  increass In timber stocka                     446,135      139,326
K1t554,373     K832,612
... cont.



ANN1X 13
Table 1
Page 5 of 8
Continued
Qtes% tQ the Accunts
.  SELLING EXPENSES                                                                    1974
Markoting expens*e                                               125,537        73,369
Bad and doubtful debts                                            15,101         17,615
K140,638       K90,984
4.  fIXED ASSETS            Buildings       Vehicles    Machinery       Roads         Total
depots, offices      and           and          and
egwmillS          plant      eQuloment  r.lLX
Cost:
31 December 1974       1,770,644        1,765,459    393,218    240,115    4,169,436
Additions                295,751          674,693     25,901       9,689    1,006,Q34
Uisposals                     -           (21,280)        -           -         (21,280)
31 December 1975       (2,066,395     12,418,872   K419,119   K2499004   K5,154,190
Depreciation:
31 December 1974         274,600          920,392     98,363          -      1,293,355
Chargo for the year        65,258         430,170      19,181         -        514,609
Disposals                     _           (19,236)        -           -         (19,236)
31 December 1975      K  339,858      K1,331,326   K117,544   K    -        K1,788,728
met book valuees
31 Docember 1974      K1,496,044      K  845,067   K294,855   K240,115   K2,876,081
- -- -
31 December 1975      K1,726,537      K1,087,546   K301,575   K249,804   K3,365,462
Buildings, depot,ototices, sawmills *nd roads and railways are situated on
land the title of whioh remain with the Goversment of' the Republic of
Zambia. Capital work In progress on buildings end sawmills wes K40,452
(1974 K76,905).



ANNEX 13
Table 1
Pane 6 of 8
Continued
Notes to the Accounts
5.  PLLANTATIONS IN FORMATION                            1975             1974
Expenditurs at 31 December 1974               11,809,251        9,805,657
Expenditure allocated in years
Depreciation                                   514,609          371,609
Formation costs                                266,127          33B,523
Loan interest                                1,101t37           899,777
Operating expenses including
overheads                                      922,333          757,506
14t613,698       12,173,072
Deduct: Eliminated in respect of
timber felled in the year:
Clearfelled areas                    (70.189)         (77,646)
Thinnings                           (577,535)         (286,175)
Fire damage loss                     (42v144)              -
K13,923,830      K11,809,251
6.  T3TOZEZ
Mechanical and technical stores                  106,660           74,046
General stores                                   124,710          114,574
Creosote                                         903,154              _
K 1,134,524      K   188,620
7. LONG TERFI LOAN
Balance at 31 December 1974                   15,504t000       12,804,000
Advancas during tho year                       3,200,000        2,700,000
K18,7049000      K15,504,000
The loan bears interest at Gj per annum *nd repayment terms
have not yet been deterrined.



ANNEX 13
Table 1
Pa,, 7 of 8
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
The Industrial Plantations Division (IPD)
Statement of Source and Application of Funds
for the Year ended 31 December 1975
1975                   1974
SOURCE Of FUNDS
Profit for the year                                   145,768               104,729
Charges not involving the movement
of funds - depreciation                             514,609               371,609
Increase in loan from Miinistry of
rinance                                           3,200, 000            2,700,000
increase in creditors                                 375,920               548,053
4,236,297             3,724,391
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
rncrease in cost of plantations
in formation                           2,114,579             2,t03,594
Net expenditure on fixed assets          1,003,990                898,002
Increase in stocks and stores            1,392,038                111,750
Increase in debtors                        501,727                 23,794
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
5,012,334             3,037,140
K (776,037)           K  687,251
INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN LIQUID FUIDS
Increase/(Decreaee) in amount on
short term deposit                                 (800,000)              8oo,ooo
increase/(Decrease) in cash In bank                    23,963              (112,749)
K (776,037)           K  687,251



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
The Industrial Plantations Division (IPD)
Financial Sumnary
1975          1974           1973            1972            1971           _970
SALES OF PRODUCE             K 1,765,058   K   965,621   K   591,331    K   435,695        K  304,503      K  157,126    K   42,853
PROFIT (LOSS) FOR YEAR       K   145,768   K   104,729   K  (105,773)   K    19,357        K   62,877      K   18,901    K   (6,421)
FIXED ASSETS                   3,365,462      2,876,081     2,349,688       2,065,167       1,736,751       1,582,528      1,419,368
PLARTAT;ONS                   13,923,830    11,809,251      9,805,657       7,869,654       5,898,974       4,225,627      2,876,496
NET CURRENT ASSETS             1,654,146        912,338       637,596         328,296         258,035          39,161         32,951
K18,943,438   K15,597,670   K12,792,941    K1O,263,117        K7,893,760     KS,847,316    K4,328,415
;                                    _                   _           =              -_
LOAN                          18,704,000    15,504,000    12,804,000       10,168,403       7,818,403       5,834,836     4,334,836
ACCURULATED PROFITS (LOSSES)    239,438          93,670       (11,059)         94,714          75,357          12,480         (6,421)
K18,943,438   K15,597,670   K12,792,941    KiO,263,117        K7,893,760     K5,847,316    K4,328,415
oc:



ZAMBTA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Projected TPD Trading Accounts
(K.Million)
1978     1979      1980      1981      1982 and after
Revenue from ore-Project Onerations _/                1.8       1.8      1.8       1.8           1.8
Revenue from Project Sawmill 3/                        -        1.0       2.1       3.1           4.5
Total Sale Proceeds                                   1.8       2.8       3.9      4.9            6.3
Operating Costs of pre-Project Sawmill 6/             0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2            0.2
Cost of Wood for pre-Project Operations 4/            0.7      0.2       0.7       0.7           0.7
Cost of Wood for Project Sawmill 3/                    -       0.4       0o.8      1.4           2.0
Cost of Pole Treatment5/                              0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3           0.3
Project Sawmill Costs (excluding wood
costs) 6/                                            -       0.2       0.4       0.6           0.8
Logging and Transport 7/                               _       0.5       0.7       0.8           1.0
Sub-total                                       1.2       2.3       3.1      4.0            5.0
IPD Overheads, say 10% of Direct
Costs                                              0.1       0.2       0.3       0.3           0.5
Cost of Sales                                        1.3       2.5       3.4      4.3            5.5
Trading Profit before Loan Interest and              0.5       0.3       0.5     o06             o.8
Appropriations                                     --
1/ Excludes costs and revenues of future sawmills not being financed under this Project.
2/ 1975 revenues essumed to remain constant for pre-Project level of operations.
3/ Annex 10, Table 3.
4/ Based on estimated wood utilization in 1975 (see Annex 6), costed at K22/m3 for pine and K13/m3 for
eucalyptus (K8/m3 for poles).
5/ At K23/m3, based on costs reported in IPD 1975 AnnuaI Report.
6/ From Annex 6.  Includes depreciation of assets and selling expenses but excludes stumpa-e and logging costs.
7/ K6 per m3 on all roundwood included in these Trading Accounts.



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE II
Full I.P.D.'s Projected Staff Training 1978-82
Total deficit
Required      Available         Present          plus wastage                                       Where Training
Type of Training            1982          1977          Zambians 1977       of 1 in 3       1977  1978  1979  1980  1981   is available
1.  BSC Forestry             15              9                5                 13            3      3     3      2      2    Overseas
2.  BSC Engineering           3             2                 -                  4            -      2      1     1      -    Overseas
3.  BSC Business Admin.       2              2                                   3            1      1     1      -      -    Local (UNZA)
4.  Chartered Accountants   3                3                -                  4            -      1      1     1      1    Overseas
5.  Dip Accounting            8             3                 1                 10            -      2     2      2      2    Local
6. Intermediate Certificate
in Accounting             7             3                 3                 5             2     1      1      1     -    Local
7.  Dip. in Stores *,it.g 12                6                 _                  8            3      2     2      2      -    Local
8. Diploma Marketing
Wood Technology           2             -                 -                  3            1      1     1      -      -    Overseas
9. Intermediate Certificate
in Marketing              4             -                 -                 5             1     1      1      1     1    Local
10. City Guilds Motor
Mechanic Post 3          23             4                 -                 19            4      4     4      4      4    Local
11. Road Engineer             1             -                 -                  2            -      1     1      -      -    Overseas
12. Diploma Forestry         34            24                 _                 14            5      5     5      5      5    Local
13. Saw Doctor                4             -                 _                  5            2      2     -      -      -    Overseas
14. Timber Engineer BSC       1                               -                  2            -      2     -      -      -    Overseas
15. Sawmiller-Diploma
Forestry & Sawmilling   3               -                                   4             2      1     1      -     -    Overseas
ct j
rD x
LO 



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE II
Project-Financed Staff Training Programme for I.P.D. _1978-82
Number of
Staff required        Number          Present      Total deficit                                          Cost
Type of Training             by 1982         Available 1977   Zambians   including wastage   1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  (Kwacha)
(a) Foreign Costs
1.  Saw Doctors             4                                                   5              2      2     1      -      -   27,000
2.  Chartered
Accountants             3                                                  4               -     1      1      1     1-  36,000
3.  B.SC.
(Engineering)          3                  2               _                4              -      2      1     1      -        1/
4.  Diplomat Marketing
and Wood Technology   2                   -                -               3               1      1     1      -     -   18,000
5.  Road Engineer           1                  -               -               2               -      1     -      1      -        1/
6.  Timber Engineers        1                  -               -                2              -      1     -      1      -   18,000
7.  Saw millers             3                 -                -               4               2      1     1      -      -   18,000
TOTAL:  117,000
(b) Local costs - Equipment,
supplies, etc.                                                                                                                30,000
GRAND TOTAL: 147,000
1/  expected to be trained free of charge.
m -x



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT 11
ORGANIZATION CHART OF FOREST DEPARTMENT AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS
DIVISION
Ministry of Lands, Natural Resources & Tourism, Lusaka
Forest Department-Ndola                                                                 Provincial
Specialized_
Divisions                                                               (Chief Conservator of Forests)                                                          Forest Officers
Accounts                                                                                                  Management Division
Researrch                                                   |         Industrial Plantations Division-Ndola
Forest Products
Working Plans & Surveys                                              _                                                                           Forest Economist
Training                                                                                I 
Director
Financial                Mechanical                 Supplies               Conservator ie c            Conservator              Senior Logging              Production                 Marketing
Controller                 Engineer                  Manager      |anaegreme                           Plantations                  Officer                   Mng                       Manager
l      l                         l                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Personnel                                              
Accounts                 Engineering                  Stores                  sPtanning                 PtantationsLogging                                   Production                 Marketing
Menas unrantionI
Accounts  Engineering             Stores~~~~~~Tranin
|  3 Plantation                                                           a
| Managers 
World Bank-16566






IBRD 12526
TANZANA           To Chm~golra                                                          -ts r  T. M.f.ilfdtth,                                                                           DECEMBER 1976
AN iA\  ti  [  >  w  ~  %  /  >  )  . n>~                                                                                                               ZAMBIA
{   ZAfRe  ({'iw               \                              ~                             5 /                    t l r-- RJ *2rrs    D  INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT, PHASE 11
>    s; e . [ ff  Sli_        /                                                          hL                      /  '    /        -      9    'gt!--;i;'                         PROJECT PLANTATION AREAS
ANOQzA -/                                      To Ch.ngolo                                                                \                                                                    \ X < 4 \ a sr Planted Before 1969
~~~LO=tOnOfP.ol.c+>'wi  ) qgUt   <   V  .,:L"#,;0hWS:15   \   /   9      <                              \       e                 -il.,,!" Planted {,l969-197Panted5)169-1975
A                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Plantable Soils
Z A M B I A    , At                                                                                                                                                            A     Fxisting Sawmills
Possible Alternate Sites for
-  I  I                                      C impe ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                              Pulp ond Paper Mill and
Integrated Forest Industries Complex
5j*   K  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O~~~~~~~ESIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Paved Roads
.OT$WANA .  .       =.,                                                                                                                                                           _ - ,  -_ _ /  __ =  _ _gx  c?  /    f  /    ;;#tf=  y  Other Roads
,ftmseoooioos,A suu cw o m                                                                                                                                                         L  =  Uf )I;Z:;-!; ; ~ g ~~ v / < 2 - X  .K'W  Built-up Areas
UlvrtSjtkandlhal,li  tei   21g  ~~~~~~~  1Q) ;07' rQ=|Mg,,9LW, jS / I KITWEu ; 0 < A | * * t'rf t. Rivers j~~~~~~River
'=f;9t             To        15        20%]E;1   25tt    \$j  !-3   |  X /      <s               t@W;  -~=r\               tTu
.; \\    <E    7-.  I i        /                                                                                            , CIAi    -                   Si .;lf \      ,$1:S,t,KILOMETER
\   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~t. Lu .-hy    =.                                                                                  +r;






BRD7 2527'
REPULMLC OF ZAMBA41
INDUSTRIAL FORESTYPOJC,f                                                                                           J          -               A   ZA 
PHASE                                                                     Md M1           ~
Project LocatfQn
RoiwQys                *' AfrtifeWd
Distrkcl boynd0nrie  2pLw
Pr~AincuiI boundies  '     io- p
-.tntemainaln bour4ores
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V 
41.                                                                      rH 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0G0- A 
'I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
A  M  I B I A            osRgoEP~U  Lo I '____C____Of___
SOO  S1N
20'  /    p                                               L    APAr       L0                            32



