Document of
FILE COPY                         The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2Ol2a-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
April 29, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -     Zambian Kwacha (K)
K 1               -     US$1.2444
US$1              -     K 0.8036
ABBREVIATIONS
LNRT     - Ministry of Land, Natural Resources and Tourism
FD       - Forest Department
IPD      -  Industrial Plantations Division
CDC      - Commonwealth Development Corporation
KITE     - Kafubu Industrial Timber Enterprises
INDECO   -  Industrial Development Corporation Limited
ZSBS     - Zambia Steel and Building Supplies Limited
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Zambia for the equivalent of US$16.8 million to
help finance an industrial forestry project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years including 4-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.2 percent
per annum.l/ The Commonwealth Development Corporation of the United Kingdom
is expected to help finance the local costs with a loan of US$6.2 million
equivalent, on terms not yet finally determined.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic mission visited Zambia in June/July 1975; its
report is under preparation and is expected to be issued in July 1977.
The information in this report was gathered by the basic mission and also
by subsequent missions which visited Zambia between October 1975 and October
1976. The most recent economic data are summarized in Annex I.
3.        With its large mineral reserves and wide area of land suitable
for crops and livestock, Zambia has the potential for rapid and sustained
development, but over the decade real gross domestic product has grown at
a modest rate of less than 3 percent per annum. -The economy is
characterized by a pronounced dualism between a large modern sector
dominated by copper mining and a rural subsistence sector. The large
differential in incomes between the urban and rural sectors has led to
continuing rapid migration to towns. Today more than one third of the
country's population lives in towns and there is substantial urban
iinemplcyment.
4.        The broad economic and social goals of Zambia's last two national
development plans (1966-70 and 1972-76) may be summarized as follows: (a)
raising the general level of welfare; (b) diversifying the economy to make
it less dependent on copper; (c) narrowing the gap between urban and rural
incomes; and (d) raising the level of education and developing a wide range
of technical and managerial skills.
5.        The slow growth of the economy (about 3 percent per annum since
1965) has been the result of stagnation in mining and slow rates of expan-
sion in agriculture and transport and communications. All other sectors of
1/   In the attachment to my memorandum on Grace Periods and Final Maturities
on FY77 Bank Loans (R 76-206 of August 9, 1976) Zambia was included in the
group of countries with a 1975    GNP per capita between US$521 and US$1,075.
The classification was then based on the official parity rate of US$1.5541
K 1, but the subsequent devaluation of the currency has established a more
appropriate rate and Zambia is now included in the group of countries with
per capita incomes below US$520, with the corresponding loan terms.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
the economy have been growing at moderate to rapid rates - construction at
4 percent per annum, services at 6.8 percent per annum and manufacturing at
7.9 percent per annum.
6.        In 1976 the mining sector still accounted for more than 90 percent
of exports and for about 25 percent of GDP. Such a heavy reliance has had
unfortunate repercussions for the country. Widely fluctuating and unpre-
dictable world copper prices have caused serious instability in Government
revenues and the balance of payments. Periods of high prices, and hence
large revenues and foreign exchange earnings, resulted in expanding levels of
expenditure, which could not be sustained without serious stress in periods
of low prices. As a result of the slump in world demand for copper, Zambia
is presently passing through its most serious economic crisis since inde-
pendence (paras. 13-17). Efforts of the two Government-controlled mining
companies to raise production from 700,000 to 900,000 tons per annum between
1972 and 1976-(as projected in the Second National Development Plan) were not
successful. Their investment program was delayed by transport rerouting
resulting from the Rhodesian border closure in 1973 and Angolan war in 1975,
and low copper prices (except in 1973 and 1974) restricted the funds
available for investment. A recent Bank mission to study the mining sector
concluded that, with investments already made or currently underway, copper
production would expand at the rate of about 1 percent per annum to a level
of 760,000 tons by the mid-1980s.
7.        Despite plentiful land resources for crops and livestock, the
contribution of the agricultural sector to increasing welfare, diversify-
ing the economy and bridging the rural-urban gap has been below potential.
During the past ten years, output expanded at a rate of 3.2 percent, mar-
ginally above the population growth rate, resulting in a continuing reli-
ance on imports of food and agricultural raw materials.
8.        For a long time, the Government's economic development strategy
did not give the agriculture sector the priority it deserved. While farmers
failed to receive proper incentives to increase output, public investment
failed to set the stage for the longer-term development of the rural areas.
The prices of agricultural products, most of which are fixed by Government
marketing boards, were not allowed to rise as rapidly as those of manufac-
tured goods, discouraging production and depressing farm incomes. With the
rapid rise in modern sector wages, the gap between urban and rural areas
widened. At the same time, the Government did not devote sufficient re-
sources to the rural sector and investments suffered from inadequate plan-
ning and implementation, largely because of the shortage of qualified per-
sonnel and weak organization.
9.        It is against this background that the Government has begun in
the last two years to devote greater attention to the rural areas. In mid-
1975 producer prices for maize and wheat were raised by 26 and 33 percent,
respectively, and in January 1976 producer prices on a number of important
farm products (e.g., cotton, groundnuts and milk) were raised by amounts
ranging from 20 to 56 percent. These increases, which substantially reduced



- 3 -
the gap between domestic and border prices and increased the prices of farm
products relative to those for non-farm products, provided greater incentives
for farmers while raising their real incomes. Improved pricing, as well as
favorable weather, contributed to a 4.6 percent increase in agricultural out-
put in 1976, with maize production reaching a record level and large increases
being registered in cotton, groundnuts, wheat, rice and sunflower seeds. The
Government has also designed a number of programs aimed at reorienting atti-
tudes (particularly among youths) toward rural work and living. All those
who leave primary and secondary school are supposed to serve two years in
agricultural training in rural work camps (National Service). Also, there
are plans for establishing a School Production Unit Program where each sec-
ondary school, both urban and rural, would have a small farming unit to
produce food and students would participate in community related projects.
Finally, the Rural Reconstruction Program, mainly to provide rural employ-
ment and slow the rural-urban exodus, was launched in 1975. It is planned
to establish 250 Rural Reconstruction Centers (five in each of the country's
districts) where about 800 youths per center will settle and clear the land
for crop, poultry and livestock production on a communal basis.
10.       Despite these recent improvements, however, a well-coordinated
approach to agricultural development remains to be implemented. The Gov-
ernment last fall announced to the Bank its intention to strengthen both
the Ministry of Rural Development and provincial administrations. A work-
ing group has studied the problem and submitted its draft report to the
Government. The Government also assured the Bank that it would review
the price structure of agricultural commodities and productive inputs on
a periodic basis and take whatever measures necessary to maintain incen-
tives for production (see para.17). These steps should help increase the
Government's implementation capacity in the rural sector and encourage agri-
cultural output.
11.       Manufacturing, though expanding more slowly than in the 1960s, still
has contributed significantly to growth and diversification while providing
employment for a growing number of migrants from the rural areas. However,
much of investment in manufacturing has been for final stage assembly or pro-
cessing industries, necessitating large inputs of imported raw materials and
capital goods. Therefore, the contribution of the sector to the Government s
import substitution and employment goals has been less than would have been
the case with a greater agro-processing orientation in industrial investment.
12.       Zambia has made important strides in creating the economic and
social infrastructure necessary for future development. It has made major
investments in power and transportation, which have set the stage for growth
in copper production and the rest of the modern sector. It has also made
significant progress toward relieving the skilled manpower constraint. At
independence, Zambia was in a worse position regarding the availability of
trained manpower than virtually any other ex-British colony. The expansion
of the educational system has, therefore, received high priority and the re-
sults achieved have been impressive. From 1964 to 1974 primary school en-
rollments doubled and secondary and technical school enrollments more than
quadrupled; since its inception in 1966, the University of Zambia has pro-
duced 860 graduates and enrollment has increased more than sevenfold.



- 4 -
13.       Because of Zambia's dependence upon copper (see para. 6), the
fall in copper prices has had serious balance of payments and budgetary
consequences. After reaching an all-time high of $1.52/lb in April 1974,
copper prices declined rapidly. Prices averaged $0.56 and $0.64/lb in 1975
and 1976 as compared to $0.93/lb in 1974. The effects of low copper prices
on the balance of payments were compounded by further transport problems
caused by the civil war in Angola. As a consequence, comparing the 1975 and
1976 balance of payments with 1974, (a) the value of copper exports dropped
by 44 and 23 percent respectively; (b) the current account turned from sur-
plus to deficits; (c) large arrears in payments for imports and private
transfers have been accumulated (totalling about $195 million by October
1976); and (d) the average level of gross international reserves has been
the equivalent of about one month's imports and net foreign assets have been
negative.
14.       As part of a continuing austerity program initiated during 1975
and 1976, the Government has severely restricted imports and in mid-1976
announced a 20 percent devaluation and that, henceforth, the Kwacha would
be tied to the SDR instead of the dollar. The devaluation was an important
step in restoring Zambia's international competitiveness, promoting export
diversification and import substitution and thereby a better utilization of
labor and other domestic resources. As a result of these measures coupled
with increased copper exports, the 1976 current account deficit of $190
million represented a substantial improvement over the 1975 figure of $611
million. Despite the improvement, however, payments arrears continued to
climb and gross international reserves declined further to a level slightly
less than the equivalent of one month's imports at the end of 1976.
15.       Low copper prices have also led to budgetary difficulties.    Mining
revenues were only $92 million and $16 million in 1975 and 1976 as compared
with $517 million in 1974. Following a large deficit in its 1975 budget,
about 80 percent of which was financed through the monetary system, the Gov-
ernment adopted a number of austerity measures in its 1976 and 1977 budgets.
Although relatively successful in restricting capital expenditures, in cut-
ting subsidies (through increases in food prices), and raising non-mineral
revenues (by increasing taxes on income and luxury consumption), the Govern-
ment in 1976 was less successful in curbing other recurrent expenditures
(mainly for salaries and defense) and, hence, the total budgetary deficit
amounted to about $370 million. However, because the cutback in the Govern-
ment's development program led to lower disbursements on foreign loans,
domestic borrowing was greater than expected and the size of the deficit
in 1976 that had to be financed through the monetary system was not signi-
ficantly lower than in 1975. Preliminary estimates indicate that the money
supply and prices grew by 20-25 percent during the year.
16.       The 1977 budget attempts still greater austerity by tight restric-
tions on expenditures and tax measures designed to raise an additional $67
million in revenue (the largest package of tax increases implemented since
independence). The budget's recurrent and capital expenditures are substan-
tially unchanged from the 1976 preliminary actual figures. The revenue



- 5 -
measures include higher personal and corporate income taxes, increases in
customs duties, sales and excise taxes (mainly on luxury consumption items),
and a higher tax rate on the wages of expatriate employees. Despite these
measures, the 1977 outlook is not encouraging: tax revenues from mining,
projected at $19 million, will not increase much even if copper prices rise
more rapidly than expected since the profits generated would be largely off-
set by the losses the mining companies sustained during 1975 and 1976 which
can    be carried forward.   Moreover, the projected budget deficit is highly
inflationary; the central bank and commercial banks are expected to expand
their loans to Government by approximately $190 million, an amount equiva-
lent to over one fourth of the money supply in the final quarter of 1976.
17.       The Government's austerity program has taken considerable political
courage and is a measure of its concern about the current financial crisis and
of its awareness of the need to provide a firmer foundation for future agri-
cultural development. The reduction in consumer subsidies (see para 15) and
the new income,excise and sales tax measures will have their greatest impact
on urban real incomes. The improvement in agricultural prices will raise
farmers' real incomes and provide greater incentives for increasing agri-
cultural output. Taken together, these measures give a positive indication
that the Government intends to carry out programs and policies to achieve
its objectives of economic growth and social equity.
18.       Zambia has relied on external capital flows to an extent similar
to other African nations with comparable per capita income (e.g., Ivory
Coast and Congo). The terms of these flows have varied, ranging from the
very concessionary terms given by the People's Republic of China to sup-
pliers' credits and Euro-dollar loans. The Bank is the country's third
largest creditor after the People's Republic of China and private banks.
Zambia's outstanding and disbursed external public debt amounted to $952
million at the end of 1975. However, owing to the magnitude of its export
earnings, which have averaged 47 percent of GDP at current prices over the
past five years, Zambia's debt service ratio has generally been low (e.g.,
only 7.9 percent in 1975).
19.       With respect to the future, Zambia's capital requirements and debt
service burden will depend heavily upon developments in mining. Copper pro-
duction is projected to grow at 1 percent per annum and Zambia's terms of
trade also are expected to improve markedly. According to the Bank's com-
modity price forecasts, they should improve 50 percent, compared with 1975,
by 1980 and 67 percent by 1985. Much of the improvement is projected to
occur by 1978. Thus, while recovery from the present recession may take
about a year longer, as mining output expands and import controls are
loosened, the GDP growth rate should average about 4.5 percent per annum
up to 1985. On this basis, Zambia's gross capital requirements would cumu-
latively amount to about $1.5 billion over the next five years. Its debt
service ratio would rise from 8 percent in 1975 to about 14 percent in
1980, declining thereafter to about 11 percent in 1985.



- 6 -
20.       These projections are very sensitive to copper prices.    A price
each year 10 percent lower than the Bank currently forecasts, for example,
would mean that, while Zambia's terms of trade would still improve, its
current account deficits would increase fourfold in current terms; its
capital requirements would total $2.4 billion over the 1977-81 period and
its debt service ratio would reach 21 percent in 1985. In view of the rapid
rise of debt servicing, relative to exports and GDP, implied by such a fore-
cast, it is highly unlikely that Zambia would be able to mobilize such a
large capital inflow.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.       Since 1956, the Bank has made 22 loans in Zambia totalling about
$490 million. Ten loans, totalling $323 million (66 percent), financed
physical infrastructure projects of which power, transportation and communi-
cations accounted for three-quarters of the total amount. Four loans for
education helped to expand and develop Zambia's secondary school system,
teacher training and higher education. In 1974 the Bank made a loan for
urban development and a $30 million program loan. The program loan was slow
to disburse due to dramatically improved copper prices which reduced the Gov-
ernment's need for the funds, and partly because the disbursement mechanism
proved more complicated than expected. At the Government's request, $12.5
million of the loan was cancelled in June 1975. The Bank also made a loan
to the Development Bank of Zambia in 1976 to help finance manufacturing and
commercial farming. A second program loan extended in late 1976 provided
foreign exchange for importing essential capital and intermediate goods,
raw materials and spare parts for agriculture, mining and manufacturing.
Twelve loans are now fully disbursed; one for livestock (627-ZA) was can-
celled and the disbursed portion prepaid. In 1975, the Bank's shares of
Zambia's total debt (disbursed and outstanding) and total debt service pay-
ments were 19 percent and 22 percent respectively. On the basis of present
projections, these percentages are expected to be about 32 percent and 18
percent respectively in the mid-1980s.
22.       IFC made its first investment in Zambia in 1972 by providing $1.1
million (including $227,500 in equity) for the expansion of the Zambia Bata
Shoe Company, Ltd. and, in 1973, invested an additional $1.2 million in Bata
for a tannery. IFC in May 1975 invested $1.04 million in Century Packages,
Ltd. for a packaging materials factory. The most recent IFC investment of
$550,000 equivalent was in the share capital of the Development Bank of
Zambia (February 1976), in conjunction with a $15.0 million Bank loan to
that institution. A summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments
along with notes on the execution of ongoing projects is contained in
Annex II.
23.       Agricultural and rural sector development is essential to diversify
the economy and improve rural living conditions. Progress in this sector,
however, has been difficult, primarily because of the Government's weaknesses



-7-
in making and carrying out suitable policies and in formulating and imple-
menting effective programs. Nevertheless, the Bank made four loans during
1968-73 for industrial forest plantations, livestock, commercial crops and
integrated family farming. The livestock loan was cancelled in 1973 at the
Government's request. The project was having serious problems due mainly
to adverse pricing policies and poor management. Two projects which had
been prepared with Bank assistance were withdrawn in March 1975 because of
inadequate implementation capacity. To help identify the problems and their
possible solutions, the Bank, at the Government's request, undertook a rural
sector survey in 1975. The report has stimulated wide discussions about agri-
culture and rural development at all levels of Government, and is playing a
key role in the increasing Zambia-Bank cooperation in the development of this
sector.
24.       Very recently, the Government has again sought further Bank assist-
ance in the preparation of programs and projects for rural development.
With the help of the Bank's Regional Mission in East Africa, it has begun
to identify and prepare the first of two agricultural projects for which it
expects to request Bank financing during the next three years. Bank assist-
ance in this sector, however, is not limited to agricultural projects as
such. The Fourth Education project, approved in late 1976, includes a major
component for training farmers and Government agricultural technicians. A
Second Urban project, scheduled for FY78, and a Rural Water Supply project,
now under preparation, will both provide assistance to smaller towns in
predominantly rural environs.
25.       In addition to the agricultural and rural sector, the Bank has
studied urbanization and water supply and sewerage. A basic economic
mission which visited Zambia in June/July 1975, and subsequent follow-up
missions, focused largely on the industrial and mining sectors as well as
manpower planning in its broadest aspects. The reports of these missions
will provide the basis for a more intensive Bank-Zambia dialogue.
26.       While the Bank's program will continue to emphasize agricultural
and rural development, it will also continue to support the development of
industry, physical and social infrastructure. Assistance is being consid-
ered for a Third Road project, which would concentrate on improving road
maintenance and institutional capabilities in the transport sector, and for
the next stage of the country's hydropower development. In all aspects of
the Bank's program, institution building will continue to occupy a central
position.



- 8 -
PART III - AGRICULTURAL AND FORESTRY ENVIRONMENT
The Agricultural Sector
27.       The agricultural sector is characterized by its dualism.    On
one extreme are about 600,000 smallholder subsistence farmers, using hand
tools and traditional technology, producing primarily for their own re-
quirements with little marketable surplus, from which they derive small
cash incomes (major crops are cotton, maize, groundnuts and free-grazed
beef). On the other extreme are large state farms and an economically
important group of about 600 expatriate and Zambian commercial farmers,
whose farms are large and on good land. They use modern methods to
produce cereals, dairy produce, beef, poultry and eggs for the urban
market and tobacco for export.
28.       The sector's performance, particularly in relation to its poten-
tial, has fallen short of expectations over the last decade. Agriculture
contributes about 12 percent to GDP, about 9.5 percent to wage employment
and only about 1 percent by value of Zambia's total exports. In 1974, about
40 percent by value of Zambia's marketed food was imported. In spite of this,
the sector has grown only about 3.2 percent per annum over the last decade.
In addition, the gap in real incomes between the rural and urban sectors has
been widening rather than narrowing.
29.       The reasons for this inadequate performance are mainly (a) lack
of an effective sector strategy; (b) inappropriate producer and consumer
price structures; (c) overcentralization of policy planning and control of
financial allocations and management of public services relating to the
sector; and (d) inadequate resource allocation.
30.       Zambia's objective for its agricultural and rural development are
stated as (a) achieving a more even distribution of real income by redressing
the imbalance of social and economic opportunities which favor urban workers
over rural dwellers; (b) attaining self-sufficiency in foodstuffs and cotton;
and (c) diversifying the economy and widening the export base by producing
and exporting agricultural surpluses. In the last two years, the Government
has been devoting greater attention to the rural areas as a means towards
improving its overall economic strategy. It has designed a number of programs
aimed at reorienting attitudes (particularly among youth) toward rural work
and living, including the Rural Reconstruction Program (para. 9). This Pro-
gram, however, does not fully address the overall problem of rural develop-
ment in Zambia, since it focuses on reducing unemployment instead of the
urgent task of increasing the productivity of traditional subsistence farmers.
Nevertheless, it is an indication of the Government's serious concern about
rural development.
31.       Other favorable developments include the steady increase in sugar
output which enabled Zambia to reach self-sufficiency in 1975 (a further ex-
pansion oriented towards exports is presently underway) and the 4.6 percent



- 9 -
overall increase (in real terms) in agricultural output registered in 1976.
Marketed production of maize reached a record level of more than 8 million
bags, an increase of 30 percent over the 1975 level. Substantial increases
also were achieved in other crops: 50 percent in sunflower, 60 percent in
rice, 25 percent in groundnuts and 19 percent in cotton, while wheat produc-
tion increased fourfold (starting from a very small base).
32.       A well-coordinated approach to agricultural and rural development,
however, still remains to be defined by the Government. The report of the
Bank's Agricultural and Rural Sector Survey carried out in 1975 suggested a
two pronged strategy based upon (1) transforming the rural sector by focus-
ing public investments and services in areas of high growth potential, and
(2) obtaining more immediate increases in output through improved pricing
policies and better marketing. The Government has responded positively to
a number of the report's recommendations. For instance, it has raised prices
of many agricultural commodities upwards towards more economic levels and has
taken steps toward strengthening the Ministry of Rural Development.
The Forestry Environment
33.       The Government of Zambia has accorded high priority to the develop-
ment of forest resources in the First and Second Five-Year Development Plans,
so that in due course it can become self-sufficient in meeting its require-
ments for timber, sawnwood and the products of woodbased industries. It
also recognizes the importance of afforestation programs in providing pro-
tection against soil erosion and in maintaining river flows. To this end
the Government has been carrying out an afforestation program since 1949.
This project is part of the Government's forestry program, which the Bank
has already assisted in the past (para. 38).
34.       Since agricultural statistics in Zambia are not disaggregated, it
is not possible to illustrate statistically the importance of forestry in
Zambia's economy. Some idea, however, can be gained from She fact that,
in 1975, consumption was istimated at about five million m of roundwood, of
which about 4.5 million m was used for fuelwood and charcoal. The country's
natural hardwood forests have met its requirements for fuelwood, for most
types of poles, and for some sawnwood but imports of wood products have been
substantial. In 1975, Zambia's demand for wood products, in terms of cubic
meters of roundwood, was 250,000 for sawnwood, 70,000 for poles, and 200,000
for other wood products. Most of Zambia's sawnwood, wood-based panels and all
paper products were imported.
35.       Zambia's demand for sawnwood and poles is projected to grow at an
average rate of about 5.5 percent per annum. Demand for industrial wood of
all types is rising faster than domestic supply. By the Snd of this century,
for examp e, demand is projected to increase to 860,000 m for sawnwood, and to
235,000 m and 675,000 m for poles and w9od-based panels, respectiveVy. Do-
mestic sugply is expected to be 465,000 m for sawnwood, and 45,000 m and
700,000 m for poles and wood-based panels, respectively.



- 10 -
36.       Natural hardwood forests cover about 50 percent of Zambia's area.
Accessible productive forests are shrinking rapidly because of shifting cul-
tivation, clear-burnings, and large-scale charcoal production. As part of
the Government's afforestation effort, a forest estate of 8 million hectares
(about 9 percent of the total land area) has been established within which
exploitation of forest resources is controlled by the Forest Department in
the Ministry of Land, Natural Resources and Tourism. Following a decade of
research and trials, the Government developed a program to plant approximately
2,000 hectares of pine and eucalyptus annually, starting from the early l_60's.
37.       The M-inistry of Land, Natural Resources and Tourism, is responsible
for the overall coordination of all forestry and wood-based activities.
However, the primary responsibility for the formulation of forest policy,
forest administration and management rests with the Forest Department. Its
Industrial Plantations Division is responsible for afforestation, construction
of roadwork, forest exploitation, wood processing and marketing. Research,
surveys, and training are all specialized functions of the Forest Department.
Provincial forest offices are responsible for the management of indigenous
forests. Until recently, the Industrial Development Corporation Limited,
a large parastatal holding company, was responsible for processing and importa-
tion of a number of wood-based products. The Government has now placed the
responsibility for all wood-based activities under IPD, except for the proposed
pulp and paper mill ,hich reamna inxzder the Corporation.   However, to ensure
proper coordination, the Corporation will be answerable to the Ministry of Land,
Natural Resources and Tourism, regarding its pulp and paper mill activities.
38.        The Bank's first loan for Industrial Forestry (Loan No. 562-ZA of
October 5, 1968) of $5.3 million helped to finance planting 16,000 hectares
of pine and eucalyptus over an eight year period (1969-76). As confirmed by
the recent audit report (No. 1538, dated April 11, 1977), once the initia
management, technical and staffing problems were solved, the project vas
implemented satisfactorily. The total plantation target of 16,000 hectares
was reached in seven years, instead of_eightF and the full amount of the loan
was fully disbursed by August 1975, about one year ahead of schedule. The
project economic and financial rates of return have been estimated at over 13
percent and over 10 percent respectively, both above appraisal estimates.
Nevertheless, it became clear during this period that unified control of planta-
tion development and exploitation was essential for the orderly development of
the forestry and forest industries sectors. This situation has been partly
rectified by the Government's recent decision to make the Industrial Development
Corporation responsible to the Natural Resources Ministry for its forestry
activities. Total project cost was K 15.0 million, compared with appraisal
estimates of about K 8 million. The main cause of the cost overrun was unexpected
inflation. However, as sawn timber prices have increased at about the saMe
rate, the projected financial and economic returns were achieved. The project
strengthened the country's capabilities in industrial forestry, logging and
sawmilling and established the Industrial Plantations Division as a sound
institution.



- 11 -
39.       Primary forest industries in Zambia consist mainly of savailling
and the conversion of eucalyptus roundwood to poles and posts. There are
presently about twelve major sawmills in Zambia which produce over 90 per
cent of the country's total production, mostly from indigenous wood. Ten
of these are privately owned and two are operated by IPD. The sawmills are
bunched closely in two areas (1) the teak forests in the Western Province,
and (2) the eucalyptus and pine forests in the Copperbelt Province, near
Ndola and Kitwe. Many of the sawmills in the past operated below capacity
because of poor location, inappropriate equipment, poor management and in-
adcequate maintenance, 'but the situation has improved in recent years and
most of them now operate near full capacity.
40.       Presently about 50 private firms comprise Zambia's secondary forest
industries, of which approximately half are engaged in furniture manufactur-
ing while a further 20 percent are engaged in joinery manufacturing of items
such as doors and prefabricated houses. The country has one blockboard fac-
tory located near Kitwe. These firms use, in addition to locally manufactured
timber and blockboard, large quantities of imported wood products.
41.       Forest education and training in Zambia are at the technical and
work levels only. Professionals are trained overseas and the number of
qualified Zambian professional foresters is still small (only seven in
1976). The Forest College at Mukera, on the copperbelt, trains foresters
and forester rangers and runs refresher courses for all the technical grades.
A Forest Workers Training Center at Chati, also on the copperbelt, provides
short training courses in a wide range of forestry skills to about 300 work-
ers annually.
Future Forest Industries Development
42.      During the implementation of the first forestry project, a number of
technical studies were carried out concerning the development of forest industries
in Zambia. These studies indicated that substantial economic benefits would re-
sult from a program that included, in addition to increasing the country's saw-
milling capacity and creating a wood-based panel industry, the construction of a
pulp and paper mill in the early 1980's. The studies have shown that, by
1985, domestic demand for kraft and industrial papers would be adequate to
justify such a mill. The mill would also provide additional economic bene-
fits by utilizing the high level of waste products from sawmilling activities,
since the proposed wood panel industries would be relatively small users of
such waste. The Government has declared its intention to construct a pulp
mill, but the high financial cost and difficulty in locating a suitable com-
mercial partner may cause delays. Zambia's afforestation plans and the pro-
posed project, however, would not be affected by a postponement, since they
are justified on the basis of sawmilling and wood-based panel manufacturing
alone.
43.       The relative merits of the various kinds of panel industries and
their optimum sequence and timing are still undetermined. The Government
recognizes, however, that the existing blockboard factory, which is dependent



- 12 -
on imported materials and makes little use of local forest resources, should
be replaced with a facility using local resources, and is actively investi-
gating the possibilities of establishing an appropriate boardmill. The
Government will consult the Bank before establishing such a boardmill (Sec-
tion 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       A report entitled "Zambia - Appraisal of a Second Industrial
Forestry Project" No. 1429-ZA, dated April 20, 1977 is being distributted
separately. Annex III slummarizes the project and proposed loan.
45.       The proposed project components were discussed extensively between
the Government, representatives of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program and the
Bank in connection with the technical studies carried out during the first
forestry project. Bank missions visited Zambia in August 1975 and April
1976 to review the Government's forestry development plans and priorities.
A specific Government request for Bank Group assistance for a second forestry
project was received in April 1976. The project was appraised in June/July
1976 and negotiations were held in Washington from April 4-8, 1977. The
Zambian delegation was led by Mr. Ndalama, Permanent Secretary, Ministry
of Land, Natural Resources and Tourism.
Objectives and Description of the Project
46.       The objectives of the proposed project are to assist the Government
in continuing its long-term afforestation, reafforestation and maintenance
program over the period 1978 to 1982; expanding its logging and sawmilling
capacity and conducting studies designed to lead to more economical and effi-
cient land clearing procedures and charcoal production.
47.       The project will consist of:
(a) planting about 3,500 ha of new plantations annually,
of which about 3,000 ha would be pine and about
500 ha eucalyptus (totals for the project period:
pine 15,000 ha; eucalyptus 2,500 ha);
(b) replanting annually approximately 400 ha clearfelled
plantations with eucalyptus (total for the project
period: 2,000 ha);
(c) maintaining all IPD's plantations;
(d)  doubling IPD's logging and transportation capacity
from about 60,000 m3 to about 120,000 m3 roundwood per
year;



- 13 -
(e) constructing and equipping 3a sawmill with an annual
capacity of about 40,000 m of sawnwood;
(f) staff training and fellowships to facilitate (a) to
(e) above; and
(g) research, experimentation and studies designed to
improve land clearing and charcoal production methods.
Project Design and Execution
48.       The new plantations will consist of extensions to those planted
on the copperbelt near the towns of Ndola and Kitwe under the first Forestry
Project. The area is well served by roads and rail and is in the region
with the largest concentration of population, and industrial and mining
development. The plantations are on good soils and conditions are generally
excellent for growing pines and eucalyptus. Plantation development is ex-
pected to extend over a period of five years starting in January 1978. The
plantations would be maintained through pruning, thinning and eLearfelling at
appropriate intervals.
49.       The sawmill would be located at Chati, close to Ndsla and the
plantations. The capacity of the proposed sawmill (40,000 m ) has been
matched to the Division's planned tree-felling program over the next five
years. The sawmill construction contract is expected to be awarded in early
1978 and the work completed by March 1979.
50.       The Division's present logging and transportation procedures will
be maintained under the proposed expansion. They consist of felling with
chainsaws and bowsaws; skidding with tractors of various sizes; loading with
front-end loaders; hauling by truck or log trailer; and unloading with large
hydraulic cranes. The project would provide for the doubling of IP 's logging
and transportation capacity from about 60,000 m3 to about 120,000 m    roundwood
per year.
51.       Land clearing costs are relatively high, and charcoal production
methods appear uneconomic in Zambia. The project would provide for research,
experimentation and studies designed to improve land clearing and charcoal
production methods.
52.       The Project would provide for the training of Zambians required
to fill the vacant posts and replace expatriate staff on short-term contracts
now heading many of the units and sections in IPD. The training would be
mainly in engineering, accounting, and marketing fields. The costs include
travel expenses, tuition, allowances and other living costs in-Zambia and
abroad.



- 14 -
Organization and Management
53.       IPD will be responsible for implementing all aspects of the
project. It operates on a self-accounting commercial basis. Although
most of IPD's plantations have not yet matured for commercial exploi-
Although most of IPD's plantations have not yet matured for commercial exploi-
tation, from 1970 to 1975 IPD made a net profit every year except in 1973.
It has a professional and administrative staff of over 130 people, and em-
ploys a labor force of over 1,000. IPD successfully implemented the first
Bank-financed Forestry Project (see para. 37). All the proposed components
of the project fall within the range of its experience. It pres-
ently owns and operates two sawmills near Kitwe and Ndola, produces transmis-
sion poles, purlins, and prefabricated houses, and operates a forest products
research center in Kitwe. IPD is organized in seven sections: plantations,
accounts, administration, production, marketing, logging and engineering,
each headed by a well-qualified and experienced professional. However, two
key posts of a mechanical and an equipment engineer are vacant. The Borrower
will make appointments to these positions not later than December 31, 1977.
In addition, successor appointments to other key positions will be made
promptly and after consultations with the Bank (Section 4.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
54.       The Bank has suggested that IPD be incorporated in order to enhance
its ability to operate as an autonomous, commercially-oriented entity. This
would facilitate a clear separation of IPD's financial accounts and activities
from those of the Forest Department. The suggestion is under consideration
within the Government. Unless the Government and the Bank agree otherwise,
IPD's incorporation will be effected by December 31, 1978 in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.02 (b) of draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs, Financing and Cost Recovery
55.       The total project cost is estimated at $34.5 million equivalent,
net of taxes and duties, of which $16.8 million (about 49 percent) would be
the foreign exchange cost. Of the total, $18.6 million is for plantation
development, $1.5 million for logging and transport, $2.9 million for saw-
milling, $0.13 million for training and fellowships, $0.37 million for
land clearing and charcoal production trials, and $11.0 million for con-
tingencies (further details are given in Annex III).
56.       The proposed Bank loan of $16.8 million would finance about 49 percent
of the total costs and 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs. The Common-
wealth Development Corporation is expected to lend to Zambia an amount
of $6.2 million equivalent (18 percent of total net cost) to help finance the
local cost. The terms of its loan have not yet been finally determined, but will
not be less favorable than the Bank loan. The Government would finance the
remaining local costs of $11.5 million (33 percent of total net cost). Since
IPD would be required to operate commercially, it would return to the central
budget the equivalent of the debt service on the proposed loan. However, after
IPD's incorporation some of the loan proceeds relent to IPD may be converted
to equity in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.



- 15 -
57.       Until now IPD has charged prices designed to recover the historical cost
of plantation development and processing. Starting from January 1, 1978, IPD
will shift to a system for the determination of ex-factory prices for its
products which shall permit IPD to recover at all times logging, transport,
handling, and processing costs and the replacement costs of its plantations.
The adequacy of IPD price levels shall be reviewed annually by the Borrower
in consultation with the Bank (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       Sawmilling and other heavy equipment, tractors, and motor vehicles
(about $11 million including contingencies) would be subject to international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines, and would be
bulked whenever possible. In accordance with current IPD practice, fuel,
tools, spares and stores (about $5.5 million, including contingencies),
equipment, vehicles (including tractors) and other items in contracts of
$100,000 or less, as well as contracts for land clearing ($2 million, in-
cluding contingencies), would be purchased or awarded in accordance with
Government procedures, which are satisfactory. Land clearing for affor-
estation would continue to be done by local contractors but would be grad-
ually taken over by IPD during the Project. This transfer has been necessi-
tated by the decline in competition and high prices charged by the remaining
private contracting capacity. Road and other construction and maintenance,
as well as the sawmill building, would be carried out by competitive bidding
advertised locally or by IPD itself if this proves less expensive. These
contracts are too small and scattered to attract foreign bids.
59.        The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:   100 percent
of foreign expenditures on all project components; or 60 percent of
the total cost of goods previously imported but purchased locally and 40
percent of the total cost for civil works. Disbursements against equipment,
vehicles, civil works contracts and consultancies would be fully documented.
All other disbursements would be made against certificates of expenditure
the documentation of which would not be submitted to the Bank but retained
for review during Bank supervision.
Accounts and Audit
60.       IPD already operates an efficient accounting system.   However, during
the project implementation period it will be further refined to get a better
picture of the profitability of each project component, particularly,
the sawmilling and logging activities. This would involve maintaining sepa-
rate cost accounts as well as full profit and loss accounts for these two
project components. IPD will have its annual accounts audited by an inde-
pendent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and forward such audited accounts
to the Bank not later than 6 months following the year to which they relate.



- 16 -
Environmental Aspects
61.       The project is not expected to have any adverse impact on the en-
vironment. The new plantations will help to preserve the water catchment
and prevent soil erosion as did the indigenous forests which will be replaced
by the plantations.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
62.       The project would assist Zambia in executing the country's long-
term afforestation program by planting about 15,000 ha of pine, 2,500 ha of
eucalyptus and replanting about 2,000 ha Sf clearfelled plantations. The
proposed sawmill would add about 40,000 m a year of sawnwood to the existing
sawmilling capacity. The project would enable Zambia through import substi-
tution to save an average of about $1.2 million per annum in foreign exchange
during the first ten years rising to about $15.3 million in year fifteen.
63.       The project has been evaluated in terms of Zambia's planned in-
dustrial forestry program, including a pulp and paper mill. On this basis,
the financial rate of return is estimated at 11 percent and the internal
economic rate of return at 20 percent. Should the pulp mill not be con-
structed as planned the economic rate of return would still be about 20
percent while the financial rate of return would be reduced to about 10.5
percent. The large differential between the economic and financial rates
of return is due to shadow pricing of foreign exchange and labor.
64.       The major risk the project faces is from fire, a risk common to
all forestry projects. To minimize this risk, IPD will implement all the
conventional fire preventive measures.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Zambia and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft Resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors separately.
66.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III Annex IV
of this Report. It is an additional condition of effectiveness that the
Borrower and IPD have entered into arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
for passing on the proceeds of the Bank loan to IPD (Section 7.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 29, 1977



0  -a
oZ  so   OC 
0  00  0..0-O  e S  C-|  000  C  1  
e. _  _OC                                               .. o.. J-N OCO O-*" F  O  _ _  e  _  t e   -e   o o O  o o O  o o  o  o O
F    C _  rC 
o ' . o~ *                                                                                              I 1t @
0  .-  eo  0  0e  * o *   t_o  _  0  _  O-  oa  a  .  0 0   O O.  . .  o  o 0   0o   2  t0  o  oa  .  0 
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I It _~     I t                          -%|  'D%
_c  t  g O r  N,e  00  r .r  *  O  iO  O  . 5   0  0  0.   S qO  CO  O  '   -  O 0  O5  Os  -O  .  o.  ..O
a. _ s        --   O..- _.      00 o                 no Foa vo. _o o  qr _                          *..o^1 _   <   'iX 
-                       *45                                    a., -I ae                             e.
a                                                                                                    S~~a
a-I  a-aD                                                        - 
* C   OC   C  OC O n  .. _o  0I  OC O OO O  -  . 00  N  2  O     O  C O 0 O     C .   o   cc eo .  .  .C tO
l ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  . _.   Os  C  SoS  00     cm 0r                    ccc       a-  o  a-c e   D    o._ ,
*   .                                                        I Z
_- C Wa c        N; O _ e _ J e  O _ O   J o ~ > o iN  : o          ; .A- -  ; V
* a.-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W 
n a b~ ~~ a  go  *  0 0  X In  .u-s.  an   _   a  o ~  _ .  W  c c  *  O .-  c    c c  _  .  _ c  o  ' c  - .  .   n  a v gr
5-~ ~ ~"* S..  _c  _   0- 70  - o  _5  s >  a  C o  --  ON  a na-c  C   s     ON   Oj  co   's        ec 
_ _ * * _ 5 s * o = * z _ _ _ z W c o fi n F * w D n s b * - X a w w X t , * =Z
A t   a - m o   -   C O   . a   .inc  a .   a   w . . ,   .  .   *  - o   .  .  .~~- a   *  0 0 c c0P0 0 .   . C O (
S O   * S   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ * *  *~~~~~~~~* .  *  ~~~~~~~~~   .* *   .   -  .   .   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v
*0  -  CC  C  CS  00  00  50  0  Vb~~~~~   0  0  000  S~~0Y  C.J  CV  0  0  0  oar. ccfu



Page 2 of 4 P.S..
Deimees otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 bet,ano, 1968 aSd 1970, acd for Most Retest getlate betwmaee
1973)-   1975.
weTugeelesi. baa been selected aNmen objetion .-try beceuse it baa a higher degree of dsvelopmnt with setencio           taete Participatione is
indeetry cod Cn-rs aslao the deemenan matter of asployeatet. is developing free e relatively low level of producttivity.
iAMk            1960    /s  1963)    lb  African population,     /c   15-59 y-.e end 60) and oce   respectively,     Id  1962,    9.  Registered only;
If  Pmr.ornal Ln g-eosef.t cervIce ,l-cludlg nIdwion;           /&  Urban RoSy.    /b   Data for Rhodeis and Matsui intladad.
1970    Ic  1965-69,     Lb  Itluding acaitasetooree         I   Penoonaceeking cork,       /d  1964-66,    /r  Total, urban end rura;
IflIeside only
JMLM ~ ESTM(A~-     /   1970-75,    Lb  Ratio of population tdeed   IS and 65 and over to total lsbor forte,     In   1971,
Id 1969-71 e-rage.,
IVR    OS       1970    Is  Doe to ismaigretion populctioe growth rate is higher than the rate of natraltnraa             lb  1965-70.    IC  Ratio of
populatln tider 15 end 65 ard tro    to total labor ftome       Id Govenoet only, inclding nsidai-,          Ia   1964-66.
cHu     1970    /a Gras Santiago.      lb  P.roonne  in go.v-rnet    ar-L.a.      /ct 1nide only.
YlL4IALAOA      19,70   /a  Agricultre, land bald by -ttla   sottor 'Kabobate",      /b  Agrirc1tore lend hold by pri-ata eall holders "10 herter.a
-aLaecaa;     Ic  Inclodleg ca.lantnt .     . nue olndwive, salssitent nidwio-  and nursingnulars
RS, April 25, 1977
D9crlNrrIi0i OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
land Area. (thou be)                                                                  PoPulation ret nnnsin. rene      - Poynit.ion divided by tunbot of pet.ti-
Totel-  Torot  or a1     r.e topriaing Send tree aN.d inland ceer.                       On  oslo end fnne   lcgrdoeto onae"t-roin4d or ".        tifiad" n--c,
Atic. -Mont recen.t necilotai of arIutua         -ae  used temporarily or parn-         and a-elliat   pnreon-l oith training or enPaterntus.
tandly for cropa, peter-e    marbt h kittben garde.- or to ILe fellow.              poeclatlo   Par hospital bed - Pnpnl.ioco  divdod by ntcnb- of hospital
beds -vil.blo in poblic end privat     goonr.  an .d epetialiid hospital
GNP pet caPita (US5) - GNP Per capita eatinstee    t current narbet prites,             and rebabilitetlon   -tnnrrs; e.n lodee note lg bense end aetabliahnenta
calculated by aen   coamion1 method sa World Reck Atlso (1973-75 basise)              lot custodial sod p-rentive ter.
1960, 1970 end 1975 dana.                                                           Per capita ospolt- of cooin(1 of retnnol-Conpted froes
energy oqui-olnt of Ott fond coppli.n evilabl. in t.-etry pen
PPorlactis and vital etaitocica                                                         capita Par day, availahia eoppliaa conpriac doe,tIn     prad-ttion,
Popoletion fold-vt. n"Ilito  - Am of Joby ft-rc    it nor a-oloklc                     ILporto laos nopocte, cod cbangsn It atock    -n    -ppti ice ae. lode
avrg  f tw  end-yea.r netina tes  1960, 1970 and 1971 data..sotosi fsed, aenda, qu...titlos uemd in fond pr-coeiog and Il.....
is dietrihotion. reqoirneonte were ectiewted by FAO bh.ned on Pbyni-
niogice1 onodo for nor-a   activity and health conidoring environ-
P.nulation density - per eguen h    - Rld-yesr population per square bIle-              nnta1 tmspsrature, body ceights, oge and ... dietribsiti-n of pope-
sotr  Il  hctoto   of. ntal Ira.teion, aNod allowing It for 0.tcr an housebold leve.
Zitovtico donaity - pnet-etour 64': of  oic. lard - Conpurod    o above for           Per cenits aural, c   orotain (aren Posr derS   - Prctain contest of par
afrion1roraI 1aod only.                                                                capita net eupply of fnod pet day. mtc aepply of food is defLnad a
above, reqoirmsente for oil cnutrtno ssiebltabnd by USDA !cononit
pIc!ft  aleic                                                                            Re...arch leoicon provide for a niniene  allowece at 60 grasia of total
Crude birth rote Pae thousand, avrage - Annua Ion1 hirth. P00 thensond                   protein par doy, ond 20 Sree   of coLnal and put1c pr-enin, of which 10
of mid-ye-   pepoletio; tnn-ycararltfaeotica.   tgennding in 1960 sod                 gr-     hboId be anluoc1 protein, thece standordsaret  lowe  thee thoem
1970, ad rfive-yn-   e-=as    ndn   in 1975 for no.   rnentnst.nEt..                  of 75 gr-    of tenta protein aNed 23 gram  of enimeal protein sa ansa-
Crd Ldehr  te po  tAon.aoao          -   .AInoal maha Per tho-ad of mId-            age for the word, proposed by FA0 in the Thtrd World Food Se-cy.
yerpopbt on       -y-er  ,tlthecetic eve-gn  ending in 1960 and 1970 sod          pe  ept     renn      iY tre a      Im, end pult- - l-tnin supply of fnod
itoyos    :vrserdlnf In 1975 f.c ousL..t reoo     toelnta.                            derived fre  astal    and pulacs" in. -r    par day.
In.fant eortc Ly_ rato C/thou) - eA-Ia deathc of infante nodno on    y-a              Reath r      Irfthou) aRea 1-4 - Accost deaths par thooseed in age group 1-4
ofaepr thvond lit- bitthe.                                                       yee,t      klrnin tbte sgc grop, tiggneted eeonidicator of nsF.
LIe npctoc ocbith(v-n'              Avrsn nuber of ynara of lifo     eac                ntiln
itO or bIrth, Icclp fvn-ya... everegeti ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975
for de-eiping connie                                                                 dection,
Crnce cee2rodo"i" rate - I..orage n.ber of Lion daegterea      coa     ill            Adjusted orlne      r raio,     - prmry hooI - tnrellseet of all egoca
bu-Leher conmel reprod.tsct.   perio  it she  oa eonPreen         egn-              parcentnge  fpe    r   aho-ge population, inlr           hIldren eged
eP ..fi. frertlity recta; --usly fi~--Yna     ev-rgna ending in    9f,                b-lIt ysera hot odjusted for diffi,eot Irngtha of priosry cdoetion;
1970 end B197  toe dasiPing countrisa.                                                for cotitriec with ucivercl educa.tion. eno      etoy emce ed 500%
tono.faro crotch rate (55 - total - COnftoacd     -Ioa  gruth rtcec of ed-              at.o. aNon  popiln or  below or above the official ech1 age
Y-a population for1906, 19070          n    9075.                                   Adjeted e-Itocint rai L      eodrscehool - Onoepintd cc above; anond-
Pootioton roth rateC    -rbn-Cpte            lieroiraeottlsyeuate reuie                                      or I...t font yacra of approved primary mar-o
popLatio; ditfetrnt defioitioca of stban areas may aff-n      ctpia-o, protidee general, on...ti-Ie or tea..ber training inatrotion for
b ide7 of dec  song ce     rc.pupila of 12 no 17 yeors of sgn, .tornepocde-ncac                                                            raec ore    e S   l..  1y
it-ba Pepuitlto_ ft oi totalS - Rati.onf -rbac to total population.                     to-loded.
difforort defintitono of urba   areas may   ff.too  nonp-bilicy oR data             Inert of schoolins provided (firut and caod le-ele       - Total yost-s of
anmsg   _cutie                                                                        ncnni   t, sncondevy leve, -scotioa          instrotion nay be partially
As0  t-tuctre (en-et)      Children (0-Si yoerc), -orhig ego (15-14 yrse),              orcopletety ...clodnd.
andrtre:6Ipeaad              acr)p aspercetages ofadya        pplto                    otational ecr.lleent ft of aecondaryl - Vocational institutiona include
Annderodecy  od  -  ati  ofpaplaionundr 1 en and  d  vr   ochcbicc1, industrial or other progron                    which opetet   icdependectly
chose of eg.o IS thr-sgh 6.4.                                                         or as depar-tne    of -eondory iostitutieno.
Econontic decendeny ratio - Ratio of poplation under IS end 65 end ovr                Adolt literacy rate M1    - Literate aduta (ahIr no read cod write) c
to the 'labor fort    inag  group 1 t-64 years.Pa ..pe                                   tenngn of totcl c.Itt Popolation aged 15 years and over.
Pail e _nin   ecceera (cmLation thu L      -   Ccoaio       ebro
ac-nycor  of birtb control device. under suspine    of oatlo-e   fostly             Rma Win
Platngpore         Atoiceto.oesnanr                                                               mo forbadl - vrgonw            fpet-noe   per mow in    -copied
tanIy plnnio -  seraft o mariederas) - Parcentegec of,narind                   coonlnldelng            ooba       ms     ueling. enclade    on.-panannt
-Illn ofhIld-bearing age (15-44 years) who oae birt h-ctnro       devin..              stroctunee and nnonc.upid pat-ta.
to oh   __ried can    in  Nam 060 geouP.                                            CottPIed dwellinos tichout piped u.ter CLI - 0coupied conventIonal dm11l-
inga in orbao and rot-cl Sros  uitbost iaid. or ontaido piped .otor
fuericyment                                                     facilIcIso aa~~~~~~~~~~N  p-rontege of all occupied dwelling-.
Ttllbrforte fthouao"d   - Ec-noically active pereo, inclodieg                   ocentooeicnt              olf all dseollna.) - Conunottonl dulig         ith
sted forooe and -oetoyeyd but"'ncl'dnog heusecl-e, etadeeta,o,                         eetrct      in irig qurtcre .c percent of totol dunllloga it nr-ho
definitione in various countries ar   not t-parabie.                                  and rot-1 srea-
Lab_r fort, in ogiutue() - Ago Loutturaltaboo Rot-ne (to feonig,                      Ruraldoline     connetod tn al1ctriotity Cl) - tCptod at above for raceS
foety uting andtickin)Ia percetage of total labor foron.                       dnling     ony.
fnoplva ft:  o`f  -oo  fortnb - Sonlayed are uslly defined 55 persons
sdoa-  ble eNd -illing to tebe a Job, out of a Job on aigive  day,              Cntctio
rie ouofda job, ad  keaing nirt fnrac pac ified siness                       Rdie roeirr     font thou eon) - Ail typet cf rctnofor radio bread-
period not :..-ading one web, nay ent ba ceParoble betnenes contriee                  ...ate to groet-o  pubifc per thoved of popu1i-rr; -ccludeeon
doe to dllferent doiniionna oR aaplyed nod sorc o.I dn,eg                              linened r...eooro in cotrincio   and Lo yoarc abet regiatratmon of
employment office eftatietica, cenPI. covYs, cepolaos         -- -y iepyet             radio aet. uoe in effect; data for recent years    ay not be conparable
Incoa diatribation -Percentage of pri-ete incom      (both in teakh endleg len                    oba ch.fght Pareoa   enolodee osbulsec.., h..a...a end
kind) r-oived by rinheat 5%, r-tcheat 201, poorest 201, and poormat                   cilinary Vebicles.
401 of hvaehoSda.                                                                    iElctricite (bels/ro neI car)- Avnnul Coostptio     of induatrie1, coeesr-
cINE, pbILo and pt-tea    eletricity in kilowatt bh-ra pr caia
Rietrbotmn oflandowneahPr - Per tnngee of Lend ownd by onaith-                  generally ba..ed oproductio     data, ri thotut alloance' fnrlaai
lea  10  en  poret 101 of land ow,nera,                                          grid. but all1wing for   mptort  end export. of s1entrtoity.
eceerist (ag/er Par caPS - Pao cdpite eonnal -oasption in hilograv
Hlealtb and Rtccition                                                                    maetinated fre  dacti    p,rsdntin plus ret Imsports of teepoint.
poeleten areteaisan- Popsl.tetl. dinidad by number of practicing
hycen qulfied free a medinal ecbenl at uni-rerity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                        ANNUAL RATE OF OROWrH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.     ___                        1965 -t.0          1970 -76
GNP at Market Prices          2,387        100.0                         2.6               3.4
Gross Domestic Investment       568         23.8                         8.4              -4.1
Gross National Saving           397         16.6                         9.4              -2.4
Current Account Balance        -171         -7.2
Exports of Goods, NFS         1,060         44.4                         2.3               2.7
Imports of Goods, NFS           988         41.4                         9.1              -7.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added                   Labor Force-/                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Pan.      3                  Mln.       %                    US $         f
Agriculture                     297       10.0               0.687       52.0                   432        19.3
Industry                      1,704       57.6               0.198       15.0                 8,606       384.2
Services                        958       32.4               0.337       25.5                 2,843       126.9
Unallocated                                                  0.099        7.5                    .__
Total/Average         2,959       100.0               1,321      100.0                 2,240      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                          2/
General Government                             Central Government
(     Kin.)        % of G!Y                  (Kvacha Hln.)           Of   1
1976       1.976      197175
Current Receipts            )                                                        455       25             28
Current Expenditure         )                                                      __Z1-      3.2L.           26
Current Surplus             )                                                       -111       -7              2
Capital Expenditures        )                                                        154         9            11
External Assistance (net)                                                             39         2             2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  195          1970         1971        1972        1973         1974    1975
Mllion    K  outstanding end periodT 
Money and Quasi Money                    113.7         355.6       318.5       341.1        410.8       440.6   493.7
Bank credit to Public Sector             -89.1       -169.7         18.3       148.0       199.3         79.8   315.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector 3/          42.7        142.9        183.1       165.4       176.8        337.3   347.2
(Percenitages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of ODP          ..          28.3         27.0        26.0         25.2        24.2
General Price Index (1970 - 100)          74.2        100.0        106.0       111.7       118.8        128.8   141.3
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                        8.2           2.6         6.0         5.4          6.4         8.b     9.7
Bank credit to Public Sector                .             .                    708.7         34.7       -60.0   295.0
Bank credit to Private Sector 3/          58.7        +25.1       +28.1         -9.7         6.9         90.7     2.9
NOTEt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1 Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated"' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Figures do not differ significantly from "Central Government".
3/ Includes parastatal organizations.
not available
not applicable
April 1977
FACPII



ANNEX I
Page4 of4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1970-74)
1974     1975                                                         US $ Mln    %
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS         1,468      894                        Copper                            898.7    93.9
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,169    1,312                        Lead, Zinc, Cobalt                 43.1     4.5
Resource Gap (deficit   -)      299     -418                        All other commodities              15.4     1.6
Total                          957.2   100.0
Factor Payments (net)           -97      -70
Net Transfers                  -126     -123
Balance on Current Account       76     -611
Direct Foreign Investment      ..        ..                       EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1975
Net MILT Borrowing (Public)
Disbursements                .       429                                                                 US $ Min
Amortization                         -7h
Subtotal                    114      403                         Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             951.7
Capital Grants                  .        .                          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)             -2      171                         Total outstanding & Disbursed             951.7
Other items n.e.i             -7173    -174
lncrease in Reserves (+)        15     -211                       DEBT SERVICE RATIO (1) 1/
Gross Reserves (end year)      171.6    147.2                                                                 1975
Net Reserves   (end year)      119.0    -92.4                       Public Debt. incl. guaranteed              7.9
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                     Total outstanding & Disbursed
Before February 1973
US$1.00 = Kwacha 0.714
Kl.O0 = US$1.40                                        IBRD/IDA LENDING,  (March 31, 1977) (Million US$):
February 1973 to July 1976                                                                         IBRD        IDA
US$1.00 = Kwacha 0.643
K1.00 = US$1.554                                         Outstanding & Disbursed              266.3
Undisbursed                          150.8
July 1976                                                     Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        417.1
SDR1 = KO.922
K1 = SDR1.085
1/ Ratio of estimated Debt Service to Exports of Gooda and Non-Factor Services in 1975.
not available
not applicable
April 1977
EACPII



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as at March 31, 1977)
Amount (less cancellations)
US$ million
Loan
No.  Year    Borrower            Purpose           Bank           Undisbursed
12 loans fully disbursed                           185.2
592   1969  Zambia               Education          17.4                2.3
645   1969  Zambia               Education           5.3                0.9
701-1 1974  Kariba North         Power Station     42.1                 7.5
Bank Company
882   1973  Zambia               Integrated Fam-    11.5                7.6
ily Farming
900   1973  Zambia               Education         33.0                20.6
919   1973  Zambia Electricity   Hydroelectric    115.0                36.4
Supply Corp.         Power
1057  1974  Zambia               Urban Devel-      20.0                15.2
opment
1131  1975  Posts & Tele.        Telecommuni-      32.0                32.0
Corps.               cations
1210  1976  Development Bank     Development       15.0                15.0
of Zambia            Finance Co.
1356  1977  Zambia               Education         13.3                13.3
Total                              489.8              150.8
of which has been repaid          65.5
Total now outstanding             424.3
Amounts sold                 38.6
of which has been repaid 31.4     7.2
Total now held by Bank            417.1
of which is undisbursed         1 50.8



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as at April 19, 1977)
Investment                                                    US$ Million
No.    Year                      Type of Business     Loan  Equity   Total
216 ZA     1972  Zambia Bata Shoe    Shoe manufacturing   0.85    0.23   1.08
Co. Ltd.
250 ZA     1973  Zambia Bata Shoe    Shoe manufacturing   1.20     -     1.20
Co. Ltd.           and tannery
307 ZA     1975  Century Packages    Packaging materials  0.78    0.21   0.99
Ltd.
324 ZA     1976  Development Bank    Development Finance   -      0.54   0.54
of Zambia           Co.                         _
Total gross commitments                        2.83   0.98    3.81
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                         1.59    -     1.59
Total now held by IFC                          1.24   0.98    2.22
Total undisbursed



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   Bank Projects in Execution 1/
Loan No. 592-ZA      First Education Project:  US$17.4 million loan of
April 11, 1969: Effective Date: July 15, 1969;
Closing Date: September 31, 1977
As a result of prolonged negotiations with architectural con-
sultants, budget reductions in 1972 due to a decline in copper prices,
poor management in the early stages of project implementation, and more
recently shortages of construction materials and difficulties with several
major contractors, the project is about three years behind schedule. How-
ever, the remaining difficulties are being overcome. Latest project cost
estimates indicate an increase in cost of about 15 percent, which the Bor-
rower will cover. Educational objectives are being met.
Loan No. 645-ZA      Second Education Project:  US$5.3 million loan of
November 30, 1969; Effective Date: May 5, 1970;
Closing Date: March 31, 1978
The project as originally appraised has been satisfactorily com-
pleted. A saving of about US$1.0 million in the loan proceeds was realized
in the equipment category, resulting basically from equipment contributions
from bilateral sources. The Bank has agreed to a request by the Borrower
to include additional related work in the project in order to utilize the
savings. Civil works and procurement of furniture included in the additional
work are proceeding. The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed by two
years.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the un-
derstanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan No. 701-ZA     Kariba North Prolect:   US$82.1 million loan of July 29,
1970, as amended on August 16. 1974: Effective Date:
December 16, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The first three 150-MW generating sets (out of four) are now in
commercial operation. The fourth set is expected to be commissioned in May
1977. The project is now in the last stage of construction and no serious
problems are anticipated. The Central African Power Corporation is now fully
responsible for operation of the power station. Staffing of the power sta-
tion was initially problematic but an adequate number of experienced staff
was recently recruited and is now at site to operate the generating sets as
they are commissioned.
Loan No. 882-ZA      Integrated Family Farming Project:   US$11.5 million loan
of February 28, 1973; Effective Date: July 26, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30. 1979
The project is experiencing difficulties, Management at Headquarters
and scheme level is unsatisfactory. Slower than expected recruitment of
project farmers, together with inflation, have precipitated sharp increases
in settlement cost per farmer. These developments are threatening the economic
viability of the project. However, because of satisfactory yields (tobacco and
maize) and Government subsidies, financial returns to farmers are good. A
project review mission visited Zambia in October 1976. Its principal recommenda-
tions were that the Tobacco Board of Zambia should recruit promptly a suitably
qualified replacement for the Project Manager, who resigned in November, and
should accelerate the recruitment of project farmers. Consideration is being
given by TBZ to strengthening Project management by retaining a consultant on
a visiting agency basis to assist a Zambian Project Manager. A recruitment
plan has been agreed with TBZ, which will involve The National Party (UNIP)
and which should increase recruitment by 50 farmers per scheme per year.
Loan 900-ZA          Third Education Project:  US$33.0 million loan of
June 6, 1973; Effective Date: August 9, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Project implementation is generally proceeding satisfactorily.
Initial delays resulting from belated appointments of certain key staff
are being overcome. Recruitment of technical assistance specialists in
health education is no longer a source of delay. Difficulty experienced
in obtaining contractors to construct numerous small facilities located
in remote areas has been overcome but at higher than anticipated costs and
some delay. The Borrower has decided to split the University into three
separate campuses, which may require modification of the Loan Agreement.
The project is expected to be completed by the original September 30, 1979
Closing Date.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan No. 919-ZA      Kafue Hydroelectric Project (Stage II):   US$115.0 mil-
lion loan of July 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 15,
1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Construction of the main dam is ahead of schedule. Current expec-
tations are that the project will be completed on schedule and within the
appraisal cost estimate. Over the past two years, the Zambia Electricity
Supply Corporation has made considerable progress in improving its financial
management but its financial performance has not been satisfactory. However,
performance is expected to improve considerably from FY77 with the implementa-
tion of a new financial framework for the sector that has been substantially
agreed to by all parties, including the Central African Power Corporation. A
solution of the remaining issues - the tariff for short-term Zambian elec-
tricity exports to Rhodesia and the determination of each country's share
of the output from the Kariba scheme - appearts to be at hand.
Loan No. 1057-ZA     Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Site and Services Project:
US$20.0 million loan of December 6, 1974; Effective Date:
April 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Upgrading of the first major squatter settlement was completed
in late 1976. Some site and services plots should be ready for allocation
later in 1977 with all of them being serviced by late 1977. Recent Govern-
ment decisions to trim the budget allocation for this project in 1977 could
cause significant delays in project implementation. This matter is under
discussion with Government and it is hoped that the necessary funds to ful-
fill existing contract commitments will be approved at the supplemental bud-
get review.
Loan No. 1131-ZA     Telecommunications Project:  US$32.0 million loan of
June 24, 1975; Effective Date: December 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project procurement and execution are approximately one year behind
schedule. Tenders for switching equipment have been received and are being
evaluated. An increase in telecommunication tariffs has been approved by
Government, delays in billing have been eliminated and arrears substantially
reduced. Implementation of the financial/management consultants report is
proceeding satisfactorily. Implementation of the initial capitalization of
the newly formed Posts and Telecommunications Corporation, however, still
remains to be completed.
Loan No. 1210-ZA     Development Bank of Zambia:  US$15.0 million loan of
February 18, 1976; Effective Date: April 23, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The loan has been committed to the extent of US$213,205. The slow
commitment is mainly due to (a) DBZ submitting a number of projects for
commitment under the African Development Bank line of Credit whose commitment
date was expiring December 31, 1976; and (b) a slower pace of operations than
anticipated at the appraisal, due to the serious economic recession in the
country. Iiore funds out of the proceeds of the loan are expected to be
committed as the economy recovers.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 1356-ZA     Fourth Education Project:   US$13.3 million loan of
January 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 8, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The loan has just become effective.
D.   IFC Projects in Execution
Zambia Bata Shoe Company Ltd. - 216 ZA and 250 ZA - Shoes and Tannery
The company continues to perform well.
Century Packages Ltd. - 307 ZA - Packaging Materials
Project construction is well underway. The project is expected
to be completed a half a year ahead of schedule. The revised project cost
is estimated at K 2.2 million compared to K 1.7 million estimated in the
1975 Board Report.
Development Bank of Zambia - 324 ZA - Development Finance Company
The IFC equity investment, approved in February 1976, was dis-
bursed in June 1976.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - Phase II
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Zambia
Amount:             US$16.8 million equivalent
Terms:              20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace, with interest
at 8.2 percent interest per annum.
Project
Description:         The project will consist of:
(a) planting of about 3,500 ha of new plantations
annually, of which about 3,000 ha would be pine
and about 500 ha eucalyptus (totals for the Project
period: pine 15,000 ha; eucalyptus 2,500 ha);
(b) reforestation annually with eucalyptus of approxi-
mately.400 ha of clearfelled plantations (total
for the Project period: 2,000 ha);
(c) maintenance of all IPD plantations;
(d)  doubling of IPD's loggi g and transportatioS capac-
ity from about 60,000 m to about 120,000 m of
roundwood per year;
(e) constructing and equipping a sawmili with a
sawnwood capacity of about 40,000 m annually;
(f)  staff training and fellowships to facilitate (a)
to (e) above; and
(g) research, experimentation and studies designed to
improve land clearing and charcoal production
methods.



ANNEX II1
Page 2 of 3
Estimated Cost (Net of Taxes)
US$ Millions
Foreign as a
I.                 Item                     Local   Foreign  Total   % of Total
(a)  Plantation Development            10.70      7.90   18.60       42
(b)  Logging and Transport              0.10      1.40    1.50       93
(c)  Sawmilling                         0.90      2.00    2.90       69
(d)  Staff Training and Fellowships     0.03     0.10     0.13       77
(e)  Land Clearing and Charcoal
Production Trials                  0.27     0.10     0.37       27
Subtotal                     12.00    11.50    23.50       49
(f) Contingencies:
Physical                         1.20      1.20    2.40       50
Expected Price Increase          4.50      4.10    8.60       48
Subtotal                      5.70     5.30    11.00       48
Total Project Cost (Net of Taxes)            17.70    16.80   34.50        49
Financing Plan:                                            US$ Million Percent
Bank                                     16.80        49
Commonwealth Development
Corporation                             6.20        18
Borrower                                 11.50        33
34.50      100
Estimated
Disbursements:
US$ Million - IBRD Fiscal Year
1979     1980      1981     1982     1983       Total
Annual         4.5      2.4      3.0      3.0       3.9       16.8
Cumulative    4.5       6.9      9.9     12.9      16.8       16.8



ANNEX II1
Page 3 of 3
Procurement:         Award of contracts for sawmilling and other heavy equip-
ment, tractors and vehicles will be on the basis of in-
ternational competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. Fuel, tools, spares, stores, vehicles
(including tractors) and other items in contracts of
$100,000 or less will be procured under standard Govern-
ment procedures which are satisfactory. Road and other
construction and sawmill building will be carried out by
competitive bidding advertised locally or by IPD if this
proves less expensive.
Disbursement:        The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against 100
percent of foreign expenditures for all project com-
ponents or for 60 percent of total cost for goods previously
imported but purchased locally and 40 percent of total
cost of civil works.
Consultants:         Studies and trials designed to improve land clearing and
charcoal production methods will require approximately
6 man-months of consultant services.
Rates of Return:     Financial rate of return:  11 percent;
Internal economic rate of return: 20 percent.
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 1429-ZA, dated April 20, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 8 months
(b) Preparation by: Government of Zambia, FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program,
and the Bank
(c) Initial discussions with Bank: August 1975
(d) First Bank mission to consider project: October 1975
(e) Appraisal mission departure: June 17, 1976
(f) Negotiations: April 4-8, 1977
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1977
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government would consult the Bank before establishing
a boardmill which would utilize IPD's plantations (para. 43).
(b) The posts of Mechanical Engineer and Engineer in Industrial
Plantations Division would be filled not later than December 31,
1977 (para. 53).
(c) Industrial Plantations Division would be incorporated not later
than December 31, 1978 (para. 54).
(d) Industrial Plantations Division and its successor organization
would continue to be managed as a self-accounting and efficient
institution with production and pricing policies based on complete
replacement cost recovery (para. 57).
(e) The Ministry of Finance and Industrial Plantations Division
should agree on arrangements acceptable to the Bank for passing
on proceeds of the proposed loan to Industrial Plantations Divi-
sion before the Loan Agreement becomes effective (para. 66).



IBRD .2527
22-               24                26               2ur                30_-_-           32' fkECFMRF5
REPUBLIC  OF ZAMBIA                                      --                    ThSumbowono
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT,                                 Laht  /        yo    "-        T A N Z A N
PHASE  11                                        M    i    KFI, T-  MpT.0n0uQ  00 -
Project Location                                                                         T. K.Mb
Railwaysb      +   Airfields                            N     -'Mporono,o'-  (  A
-  -- District boundories  .qRivers                                                                     N Mr
--- Provincial boundories  Swmps
- --  International boundaries                                     0 BWA,          SAg/
lo.
.5'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Md
0   50  ItO  150  200 25
\~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o  T7 He  J  R  Nwnj< - 4 s f   >
-          KABOMhTE< M  gInsD_ gX
A N       A                                        I                   SERENE   ' (.
0                                                    0  le  0tV/|NtIU  45A 5 %/ t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  K   A 
ZAMBEZI    7      KoAb5oE/ A   X   (   i  Mr;ngwe po/ .> ChW 
Iu j. ~ ~ a  L 9k l  d u o b ,-   S w m -~           C  (  f,Yu1  T  =  A   L3 W  E.  ft A T T   C '  0 0 5 u o .  -  o   5j -
j5~ti ; $ M CINGU  -  E A u\.   K5            0 Au     rms n O- / <M U I   A ~ \   ,  
j ~  ~~~~   NarHShOkTfUlCAH 1\ *\ \------ul    lk w >      i -
I ~~~~~~~4Mecz' 51v05~~~~~~~~~~UNAZ 
/~~~~,KBI               I     '
'Am", Z,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mro,.
/                                          -o,'M> X ONZEIb    r           ___.<              EM     t7I
,S ENA NCGA  505 50 ESH 0'(        0  U  T  H  E5P  Ne GP,'- 
A N  G                         C        T  R  A~>_-~  Lt>fi @   } t  oc   W s ; r s  ,,,.L
-  NA MIBIA  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.  ~-       KUH
_.              ACM                                                       M A  Z A M I  I Q Upmstn  rE
g-. ;'-             24               - / s-/{30TswfVlNwGsToNE  ;2   21 *  1 ._  13'     32- --
I8* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ hk,d



