Docmen of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rqiept No. P-5819-ZIM
TECHNICAL ANNEX TO THE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 109.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
FOR AN
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT
PART II: TECHNICAL ANNEX
JUNE 4, 1992
Thi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recpients oly In the perforss-nce of
thir officil dutie. its contens may not odtwise be dbosed widout Wodd Bank suthorizaton.



ebruary 1992)
US$ 1.00 = Z$ 5.05
US$ O.'20 = Z$ 1.0
ABIBIEVZ1XQN  AND;  2SM
AFC                      Agriculral Finance Corporation
CA                       Communad Areas
CMB                      Cotton Marketing Board
CSFP                     Child Supplementary Feeding Program
CZI                      Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries
DDF                      District Development Fund
DSW                      Department of Social Welfare
ERS                      Eport Retention Scheme
FFW                      Food-for-Work program
(GDP                     Gross Domestic Product
GNB                      Grain Marketing Board
GOZ                      Govemment of Zimbabwe
IRWSSP                    neated Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program
LSCS                     Large-Scale Commercial (farming) Sector
LEDP                     Letter of Emergency Drought Policy
MEWRD                    Minstry of Energy and Water Resources Development
MFEPD                    Ministry of Finance, Economic Planng and Development
ARR                      Ministy of Lands, Agriculture and Rural Resettement
MLGRUD                   Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban Development
MLMPSW                   Ministry of Labor, Manpower Planning and Social Welfare
MOH                      Ministry of Health
MOTNS                    Ministy of Transportation and Natura Supplies
NAC                      National Action Committee
NGO                      Non-Governmental Organization
NOCZIM                   National Oil Company of Zimbabwe
NRZ                      National Railways of Zimbabwe
OGIL                     Open General Iinport License
UNDP                     United Nations Development Program
USAID                    United States Agency for fnternational Development
1 meter (m)                =             3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq.m)      =            10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)           =             0.62 miles
1 sque kIlometer (sq.km)    =            0.386 square miles
GOVERNMENTOF ZMAW
ESAL EAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
lXqRGECEDROUGHT RECOSRY AND MMGATION PROJECT
redit $_m
Republic of Zimbabwe
AmQuI                      SDR 10.i.5 milion equivalent
M                          Standard MDA terms, repayable In 35 years, with a 10-year
grace period.
Edanomic Eat of Ret:m      Not applicable.
Finmng..EIa                Government Drought Relief and Recovery Program
US$ million
Govement of Zimbabwe:                 $730
(through own resources and
anticipated additional donor fnacing)
IDA - Proposed Credit:                $150            (equivent)
BRD exisig loan portfolio:             $37
Bilateral Agencies (pledges):         $127
Total                                $1044
staff ,^ R°Xw              There is no separate Staff Appraisal ReporL        /
Ibis report i based on the findings of a single Preparation and Appra Mission which visited
Zimbabwe in March-Aprl 1992, comprising Messrs./Ms. Erc Rice (Country Economist and
mission leader), Muki Mwiraris (Urban Planer), Paatii Ofosu-Amaah (Legal Counsel), Pafl
Patel (Division Chief, Edward Quicke (Agricultural Economist), David Grey (Conslta,
Hydogeologist), Robin Herbert (Consultant, Hydrogeologist), and Frank Riely (Consultant, Food
Secrt Specialist). COnuto  tD the Mission were also made by Michael Hiks (Conultant,
Trasport Specl), Ngoni Mudege (Water Engineer), Paul Taylor (Water Engineer), and David
Sanders (Cownulta, Health and Nutrition). Cbristia Poorman (Redent Rrsentie  in
Zimbabwe), Micad Mills, Stephen Brushett, Car Chidawanylka, and Lloyd McKay of the
resident mission an provided guidance to the Mission, and organized and parcipated in
mrous meetidn. Arthur Fields (AFTOS) and Cbander Ohri (APRVP) prvided pcemet
advice. Documeou were reviewed by the ad hoc advisory group, consisdng of Piers Crs
(INUWS), Alcira Kreimer (ENV), Paati Ofosu-Amaah (LEGOP), Michel Pommier (CODOP),
Andrew Spurling (AFTAG), Roger Sullivan (AFTSP), and Harry Walters (AMP).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the penua.nance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TECHNICAL ANNEX
As JA,&ERQ4ADSR
1.           Sectord"  Impact of the Drought
Agriculture
1.          Agriculture employs three-quarters of Zimbabwe's population of just over 10
millio. It accounts for 40 percent of total merchandise exports, out of which tobacco and cotton
comprise more dt  60 percet In addidon, about half of the manufacturing sector relies on
agricture for inputs.
2.           Zimbabwe is chactrized by a single rainy season and frequent iroughcs of
varying degrees of severity. Despite this. agriculture is relatively productive. Zimbabwe has
benefitted considerably from effective agricultura research and exension, and has developed
drought-resitan vareties of hybrid maize. In all but the most severe drought years, these
provide a better return to farmers than alternative crops (such as sorghum and millet) grown
under similar rinfll conditions.
3.           Agriculture is broadly divided into traditional cultivation in the Communal Areas
(CA) - home to 60 percent of the country's population - and a large scale commercial sector
(LSCS) of 4,700 fiams, which employs 225,000 laborers. Farming in the CA is a mixed crop
and livestock system, with crop production heavily dependent on livestock for draft power and
manre, and livestock depeent on crop residues for survival during the dry season. Land
dbution in the CA is highly skewed towards the less productive and more drought-prone
ago-eological regions. Due to population pressure, intensive mixed crop production is practced
In aU regions, rendering the CA far more vulnerable to variations in rainall than the LSCS.
4.           Over half of the planted land area in the CA is in maize. Average production is
1.2 million tons - 58 percent of the national total of 2.0 million tons (1985-89) - about
two-thirds of which is consumed on farm. Only about half of the 800,000 tons of maize sold to
the Grain Marketng Board (GMB) in a normal year is delivered from the CA. Cotton, the main
cash crop in the CA, accounts for almost half of natdonal production (48% from 1985-89). In
the LSCS, farming systems are well adapted to the level and variability of rainfall, enabling it
to produce two-thirds of the naton's gross agricultural output, over 80 percent of crop sales, and
90 percent of marketed livestock offtake.
S.                          The 1991/92 drought has affected the entire Southern Africa
region, including Zimbabwe. While Zimbabwe experienced a major drought in the mid-1980s
and local droughts in the southern parts of the country in eight of the past 10 years, the 1991/92
drought is perhaps the most serious in this century. Unlike these earlier experiences, the 1991t92
drought has led to crop faiure in all regions of the country, irrespective of normal rainfall
conditions - including the bigher potential, main maize-producing areas.
6.           During the 1991/92 growing season, rainfall levels were between 40 and 60
percent of normal in most of the major maize-producing areas. According to the U.N. Food and
Agriculture Organization, total cereal production is expected to be 480,000 tons, approximately
80 percent below the prwious five-year average.



7.          'The curent crisis represents the cumula,    apact of two successive years of
widespread drought in Zimbabwe, on top of a long-term declm. in the land area planted in maize,
particulally in the commercial faming area (due in part to a decline in real, government-
controlled maize producer prices). In spite of early warning signals of potential food shortages
as early as July 1991, the govemnment did not take the measures necessary to ensure supplies, and
commercW  imports were initiated only in December. As a result, maize stocks fell from
643,010 tons in April 1991 to about 42,000 tons by April 1992 - including imports in the first
thr 4onths Of 1992 of 76,000 tons.
8.           In total, imports of approximately 2 million tons of food - including 1.4 million
toDns of cereals alone - wiUl be necessary to maintain normal levels of consumption until the
expected next havest in April 1993. To date, the Government has placed orders for over 1.2
million tons of commercial maize imports. Donor pledges of food aid are still pending, but they
are mt expected to meet all of the country's additional food import requirements.
9.           Zimbabwe's import program will be complicated by the regional impact of the
1991/92 drought. Drought-related food shortages throughout Southern Africa (including South
Africa) will result it in unprecedented 11.6 million tons of required cereal imports over the next
year, in a region that is normally a net cereals exporter. The expecte4 large inflows of food will
require a massive logistical exercise that will tax the capacity of the region's ports, railways, and
road transport systems.
10.          Especily hard hit are farmers in the CA, whose situationhas deteriorated rapidly
since the start of the normal harvest in April. Th, maize crop failure has left farm families
witho  subsistence grain until the next harvest, and their livestock without fodder (corn stalks)
at least untff the end of the dry season in November. Livestock deaths are increasing at an
alarming rate in many areas. Families will also be deprived of money income, due to the severe
reduction in cotton and other cash crop harvests.
11.          Given their lack of resources, a majori.y of farmers in the CA will be unable to
purchase necessary inputs of seed, fertilizer and crop protection chemicals for the 1992/93
season. Most draft animals that survive the drought will be too weak to assist in land preparation
as well. For these reasom, significant government assistance will be required to enable farmers
to plant for the 1992/93 harvest.
Food Securi
12.          The current drought in Zimbabwe exacerbates an already chronic problem of
widespread food inecuity in the country. Food insecurity results in spite of Zimbabwe's relative
success in expanding agricutural production, and its often large cereal exports. The main causes
of this fbod iscurity are an unequal distribution of good quality land and other resources, low
productvity and income levels among large segments of the population, and an inefficient food
marketing systm. Rates of chronic child malnutrition as high as 31 to 37 percent in some areas
attest to the seriousness of the problem.
13.          Food ineurity has typically been isolated in specific population groups in
Zimbabwe: (a) small farmers in drought-prone parts of the CA, (b) salaried laborers on
commercil  ms, (c) farms    newly resettled under the goverment's land redistribution
program, (d) landless rural households, and (e) the urban poor. These household groups will be
2



among those most affected by the current drought and, therefore, of most immediate concern for
short-term, emergency interventions. Additionally, Zimbabwe is host to approximately 185,000
refugees from Mozambique who could also be seriously affected by food shortages.
14.          D &gh    mpa. The effects of the drought will be felt most severely by the 6.2
million communal farmers in rural areas. In the lower potential areas, as many as 59 percent of
communal farm households produce less than their annual requirement of maize, even in non-
drought years. Ihe past two consecutive drought years have placed a tremendous stin on these
households' access to food. Even in ligher-potential parts of the CA, food stocks are not
expected to last beyond the begining of next year's rainy season in October 1992.
15.          Recent reports indicate substantial reductions in household consumption in the
CA, with growing numbers forced to travel long distances in search of both food and water
Anecdotal evidence points to increasing rates of child malnutrition. In much of Masvingo,
Manicaland, and Matebeleland Provinces, which are chronically drought-affected, the situation
is particularly bleak.
16.          As of May, more than 500,000 farmers (supporting a population of 3.5 million)
became eligible for the Food-for-Work program, the government's prinary safety-net mechanism.
This represents a majority of families in the CA. In the previous two years, the number of
beneficiaries under the program each month has averaged approximately 135,000. As home food
stocks are depleted through the next few months, as many as 700,000 heads of rural households
(with over 4 million dependents) are expected to require this government assistance. In addition,
the government estimates that 704,000 children are currently in need of supplementary feeding
to compensate for deficiencies in their diets as a result of the drought. At present, however, food
shortages and budgetary constraints have limited government efforts to meet the increased need
for assistance.
17.          Smallholders in the CA have also lost substantial numbers of their livestock assets
in recent months. An esdmated 50 percent of smallholder herds in the CA and 30 percent of
herds in the largescale commercial sector will either be sold for slaughter or will die in the
coming months due to inadequate pastures and water shortages. Reduced production of importat
cash crops, such as cotton, tobacco, sugar, and oilseeds, have reduced the demand for labor
throughout the communal and large-scale commercial agricultural sectors. This lack of
employmean opporunites in agriculture will limit the incomes of those households that are reliant
on market purcbases for food. Prices in informal markets stand at more than twice the official
price in some areas, placing fjsrther limits on household purchasing power.
18.          Limited population movements from rural to trban areas - primarily to purchase
food for family members, to seek assistance from urban relatives or to seek employment - have
been reported since early 1992. Large numbers of persons displaced from the CA would strain
urban labor markets and already overburdened urban infrastructure and services. Unplanned
settlements in peniurban areas would suffer from overcrowding, inadequate shelter, water supply
and sanitation. Such settlements constitute a significant threat to health, especially when
combined with food shortages and increased malnutrition. The movement of populations from
their homes also presents difficulties for the targeting of short-term assistance, as well as any
eventual rehabilitation efforts in the post-drought period. Ultimately, however, the only key to
stemming the flow of migrants is a successful food and water relief effort.
3



19.          The severity and widesead nate of the current drought has had a significant
impact on the food security of urban populations as well. Shortages and queues for food have
already beom ommo nplac. Hoardg of supplies has been reported, along with instaces of
social unrest. Ihe lack of inpu from the agricultura sector will also reduce output thoughout
the m      ng  sector, particularly in textiles and food processing. As a consequence,
retrenchmens of pmanent workers in the manufactuing sector for the first three months of
1992 exceeded those reported for all of 1991.
Water Sup&
20.          The relative scarcity of water in Zimbabwe constitutes an important limking
factor for long-term economic development. Groundwater is the most widespread and reliable
source of water in Zimbabwe, although extended years of drought in much of the country have
led to declines in the level of the groundwater table. Natural surface water sources, such as
natural lakes and perennial rivers, are limited. Dams constiute the primary source of surface
water, with the largest 100 dms providing 80 percent of water storage capacity.
21.          While ifant mortality rates declined through the 1980s, water and sanitation-
reated diseases continue to rank among the major reported causes of child morbidity and
moraliy. Diarrhea alone ants for up to 15 percent of mortality in ciiildren under five.
Water quantity, rather than quality, is thought to be a more significant determinnt of improved
health, a fact which stresses the importance of improved proximity and access to water sources.
The need for geAter access to quantities of water is a pardcular impediment to improved health
in the more drought-prone areas of Zimbabwe.
22.          In ural areas, the availability of water has important implications for economic
productivity. Women, who account for 67 percent of farm labor, are also primarily responsible
for water.collection. Studies indicate that women in Zimbabwe spend an average of 152 minutes
each day on water collection during the dry season. Time allocated to collecting water limits
their ability to engage in more productive income-generating activities, meal preparation, and
child care. Limited availability of water also constr   the use of irrigation, which is crucial in
the production of a range of cash crops. In urban areas, as well, water contiwtes an important
input into a range of industrial and manufactring activities.
23.          Shortly aft independence, the government initiated the Integrated Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Program (IRWSSP), which has functioned as a key primary health care
intervention and as well as an amenity service. Since 1984, IRWSS has increased basic water
supply coverage in the communal areas from 33 percent to 55 percent in 1990. Sanitation
coverage has similarly increased, from 7.5 percent in 1985 to 21 percent in 1990. In all, the
program has been responsible for the construction of 200,000 latrines, 8,389 boreholes, 4,297
deep wells and 11,280 shallow wells. An important focus of the program has been on community
pa>tlcipation in planning and constuction, as well as the testig and large-scale adoption of
indigenous technlogies for water supply and sanitation. Ihe IRWSSP is coordinaed by the
National Action Committee (NAC) which oversees the activities of several line ministries in the
water sector.
24.          Drouht nDact. Low rainfall over the past few years has resulted in the lowest
water levels recorded in Zimbabwe. Water levels in reservoirs have falen well below capacity.
Declining recharge rates have caused the water table to drop below the base level of many
4



boreboles and wells. Nation-wide,, an e$isatd 44 percent of deep wells and 20 percent of
boreholes are dry or low-yielding. Shallow wells in the most seriously affected regions have also
dried up. In addition, average breakdown times have increased as a result of higher usage of
reliable water points. The unavailability of spare parts (due to chronic shortages of foreign
exchage) limit the govemment's ability to perform necessary maintenance and repairs of water
souce. Many rral piped water supplies are also affected, with levels of operation falling below
50 pecent of demand.
25.          The siuaton is quite critical in six urban areas, which are esdmatd to have
barely enough water in their reservoirs to last until December. Water rationing has been
introduced in most of these towns. Blockages and burst sewage pipes are beco-ming more
common as a result of insufficient water, and treatment plants are receiving sewage with a higher
biological content. Raw sewage from burst pipes and insufficiently treated water may present a
health hazard for downsteam users. Water shortages are also affecting water-intensive industries
adversely, forcing several to reduce or relocate production.
26.          'he 1992 drought follows several dry years: the southern part of the country has
been receiving food aid for over a year, and several of the urban areas (Bulawayo, Mutare) began
conserving water in 1991. Ihe current drought has, however affected a greater portion of the
country including areas otherwise considered high rainfal areas. The expectation of rain during
the 1991192 (October-April) season forestalled most attempts to address the emerging problem,
however, unil the drought emergency was actually declared in early 1992.
2. Mareconomc lImpact of the Drowtght
27.                       The drought has hit Zimbabwe at a time of major economic
nsation, and has the potendal to derail the country's reform efforts. In early 1991, the
country embarked on a medi-erm program of structura adjusment aimed at accelerating
economic growth, increing per capita income, and generating additional employment for a
rapidly growing labor force. Whereas Government remains fully committed to its progran of
structual adjustmt, cerain of its targets need moaification in light of the severe negative
Impact of the drought on the national accounts, fiscl budget and exteral accounts. A detailed
analysis of the macrcmic situation may be found in the Policy Framework Paper prepared
in parallel with the proposed Credit.
BackgloS
28.          Since Independence in 1980, Zimbabwe achieved much in the areas of education,
health, family planming, and smallholder agriculture. Unfortunately though, these successes were
not matched by economic growth and rising incomes. Average GDP growth, while quite
respectable compared to most African counties, merely compensated for population growth
during the first decade of independence. The increase in employment opportunities has been far
from adequate to absorb the large numbers entering the work force annualy. There are now
about 200,000 school leavers each year but only about 60,000 to 70,000 formal sector job
openings. Becmse of high protection and pre-independeace economic sanctions, manfacturing
industry is relatively well-developed but inefficient. Small scale, informal sector activities have
been constained by a highly restrictive environment and the lack of supportive services.
5



29.          Ceotra government deficits have consistently exceeded 10 percent of GDP,
fimancing an expansion of the civil service wage bill to 16.5 percent of GDP by 1990. At the
same time, the aegate deficit of the public enterprise sector rose to 3.7 percent of GDP in
1990, highlighting the nead for greater efficiency and cost effectiveness in the provision of public
services.
30.          Zimbabwe's balance of n-yments has been under great pressure during the 1980s.
Exports increased by only 3.5 percent per annum between 1980-1089, and foreign exchange
eamings are heavfly dependent on agricultural (especially tobacco) and mineral exports. Growth
in imports was much lower, as foreign exchange was restricted to make room for debt service
payments. The lack of import growth severely constrained capacity utilization and investment,
particuarly in industry.
31.          The most pressing development issue in Zimbabwe is the achievement of more
rapid sustainable growth as a f6undation for increasing living standards, expanding employment,
and continuing to address social needs. To achieve this, overall investment must rise and
economic efficiency must increase. In past years, investment has barely been adequate to
maintain the capital stock, let alone increase it and thereby raise total productivity. The
fiudamental causes of Zimbabwe's past, modest economic performance have become well-
recognized and the government has committed itself to a comprehensive economic reform
program. This program, which was formulated with assistance from the Bank and the IMF, was
launched in early 1991.
32.          Agriculture is a critical factor for overall economic performance, export growth,
poverty alleviation and food security. At 2.2 percent per annum, the sector's average growth rate
has been relatively disappointing since independence. Nonetheless, the sector has achieved some
important successes in terms of a major increase in the share of small scale farmers in total
markeed agriculutur outpu (maize and cotton), and the extension of horticulture exports by the
country's large-scale commercial farmers. Under normal conditions, Zimbabwe is self-sufficient
in all foodstuffs except wheat, as well as being a surplus producer of maize, sugar, beef and dairy
products.
33.          Pricing and marketing liberalization are key issues for the furiher development
of the agriculture sector in Zimbabwe. Policy has been highly interventionist, with producer and
consumer prices beig adminis vely determined and most products only marketed through four
agricultural marketing boards. Until recently, producer prices for key agricultural products have
not kept up with inflation, thereby distoting production incentives against certain important food
crops such as maize and groundnuts. A second issue concerns the politically-charged policy of
redistrung some of the land of large-scale commercial farms to smallholder farmers. A Land
Acquisition Act was passed by Parliament in March 1992 empowering the government to acquire
private land compulsorily for this purpose. The legislation was subject to a major nadonal debate
and modified significantly to take into account the concerns of conmercial farmers. Third, the
enhancement of smallholder farmer productivity remains a crucial factor for the longer term
susainable growth of the agricultual sector, food security, and the alleviation of rural poverty.
34.          Zimbabwe's Economic Reform Prora.  The government's program is a
departure from pervasive direct controls in favor of market forces. It is a blend of structural
reforms and macro-economic stabilization, and includes measures in the areas of. fiscal policy;
monetary management; trade liberalization; domestic deregulation; parastatal reform; civil service
restructuring; and protection of the poor. The program is widely supported by the country's
6



donrs as well as the multilateral insttions. A SAL for Zimbabwe was approved by the
African Development Bank in December 1991, and by the World Bank in January 1992. IMP
support In the form of an EFF, to be partially converted Into an ESAF, wa& also approved In
Jany 19M. The key feates of the reform program, together with the policy measures that
have already been implemented, are described in Sections I and I of the President's Report (No.
P-5684-ZIM) accompanying the Bank's SAL, dated December 23, 1991.
35.          During the latter part of 1991, a sound beginning was made with the
Implementation of the adjustment program. To reduce public sector demands on the economy,
contain overll demand and help maintain external balance, the government accelerated its
program of deficit reduction and tightened monetary policy. Direct subsidies to parastatals wers
reduced and a program of civil service reform started. To support demand management measure.
and move ahead with trade liberalization, the government accelerated the real exchange rate
depreciation, partially liberalized the foreign exchange system, and increased minirmum tariffs.
In deregulating the domestic economy, the government partially decontrolled the trading of maize
and the trucking/transport system. In addition, it revised local authority by-laws and regulations
relatig to small businlsses and informal activities, with a view to greater deregulation. Labor
regulations and investment controls were significantly relaxed, and price controls removed (except
for a small number of products of basic necessity). Finally, a Social Development Fund was
created to provide financial assistance to the poor in the form of maize subsidies, compensation
for cost recovery fees in health and education, and training for retrenched labor.
!)rought lmDac
36.          The policy iniiatives introduced during 1991 and early 1992 provide a fam
foundation for continuing forward with the adjustment program. At the first Consultative Group
Meeting for Zimbabwe, held in Paris in February 1992, the country's donors praised the
Government for its reform efforts so far and confirmed support amounting to approximately US$1
bilion in dis e      to support the implementation of the program during 1992. However,
during the CG meeting, Goverment indicated its concern about the impact of the evolving
dought situation in the country's economic prospects for 1992 and 1993 and, in particular, its
external finacing requirements. A provisional estimate of this additional, drought-related,
financing ga was US$325 million for 1992 and US$137 million for 1993.
37.          The overall economic impact of the drought has turned out to be worse than
foreseen, even as recendy as the time of the Consultive Group Meeting. It is now estimated that
real GDP is likely to decline 9 percent in 1992, with agricultural production failing by 35
percent. Because of shortages of basic foodstuffs (maize, sugar, vegetable oil, butter) and the
high costs of impo, inflation has cGntinued to accelerate in recent months. Inflation reached
over 30 percent in the 12-month period ending February 1992. This has put a severe strain on
household budgets, particulsrly for lower income groups. Further inflationary pressures appear
unavoidable in the first half of 1992 reflecing recent adjustments in prices of petroleum products,
beef, cooking oil, dairy products and wheat, as well as prospective hikes in the retail price of
maize meal.
38.          Despite prudent budgetary management - in line with the targets of the reform
program through February 1992 - and oostponement of less essential expenditures, the overall
budget deficit for 1991/92 is expected to reach about 9 percent of GDP, which exceeds
moderately the 8.3 percent ceiling given in the Memorandum of the President for the Structural
7



Adjumet Program (December 1991). Ihe deficit expansion reflects the budgetary costs of the
goverment's various relief and recovery programs, plus the si2eable budgetary burden from
higher apertig losses of public enrises arising from the drought. The govement is
currendy in the process of preparing Its budget for 1992/93, which will again be shaped by very
lnge drought reief and recovey efforts. Attempts wUI be made to keep the overall 4eflcit as
close as possible to origin (program) targets through a combination of non-essential expenditure
cuts, public service reform and, if necessary, some new revenue measures.
39.          The government recendy announced policies for the 1992193 crop year, aimed
at reducing the country's vulnerabiity to future drought situions and tupportig the arcultural
recovery. These involve significant increases in agricultural producer prices, as well as further
liberalization of marketing arrangements. Moreover, only a guaranteed floor price has been set
for most products, with the possibility that the prices agreed by buyers and sellers will actually
be higher. A new producer price for maize will be announced before the next season's crop Is
planted to provide a sufficient incentive for the recovery of maize production.
40.          The exte   current acccunt deficit (excluding gants) for 1992 is curre&ty
estimted at about US$950 million, nearly 20 percent of GDP. This constitutes a major increase
from the original target of US$590 million (or 11.8 percent of GDP) set for 1992 under the
Governent's adjutmment prcgram. It is currently estimated that the direct financial impact of
the drought for 1992 wIll be about US$700 million resulting from bigher imports of foodstuffs
arcularly maize, wheat, sugar, and vegetable oil), agricultural inputs and water resources
equipment, combined with lower exports of agricultural commodities. Taking into account the
weaker demand for non-drought related imports as a result of the projected decline in incomes
and production, an additinnal financing need of US$400 million is estimated for 1992 compared
to a provinal esmate of US$325 million at the time of the Zimbabwe CG Meeting In
February. Assuming a normal rainy season during November 1992-March 1993, the spill-over
effect of the drought for 1993 is ested at US$450 mllion. After adjustent for lower no-
drought imports, this is likely to result in another US$200 million of additional fiancing
requirements for next year.
41.          Zimbabwe's (non-drought related) external finaning requirements of US$1.0
billion in 992 are likely to be met, based on pledges made at therecent CG Meeting and
availability of commercial lending to the country. As for the additional, drought-related financing
needs of US$400 milion, the following sources have been identified: US$80 million of
disbusements from the (US$150 million) IDA Drought Recovery and Mitigation Credit; US$17
million of accelerated disbursements on existing IBRD loans; and US$80 milion of additional
IMF ESAF resources. Tentative indications are that the remaining gap will be financed by
bilateral grants, concessional loans, and commercial borrowing, the composition of which will
enswre the sustinbility of the resulting external payments position. Tne precise composition of
this financing is still evolving on the basis of international donor appeals.
MediumLern udo
42.          With the additional difficulties imposed by the drought, the objectives of
Zimbabwe's economic reform program have been broadened to generate rapid recovery as part
of achieving sustaned higher growth. In spite of the drought's impact, the main objectives of
the program are to raise real GDP growth to 5 percent per annum by 1994, to sustain this level
over the medium-term to yield anmual increases in per capita consumption of more than 2 percent,
8



and to generat inasing levels of new employment. These goals will require a rise in
inemet to 26 percet of GDP, exp    eansion at an average anual rate of over 10 percent,
and com      t  Impof ts through a combinaion of pruden, fiscal, monetary and exchange rate
policles.
43.          The orignl tagets fbr the Governient's aedium-term adjusment program,
which formed the basis for the support programs of the World Bank and the DV, have been
moded to take accoun of th Impact of the drought situionL  A full review of the reform
program and the appropriate policy response to the drought situation was initited in the context
of Zimbabwes rcent ligibility for ESAF resources and the consequent need to prepare a Policy
Framework Paper for 1992-1994. The PFP is currently being negotiated and will be distributed
to the Board in the uear fture.
9



B. BANK RESPON  AND SRATEGY
44.          The Banks past staeg was to focus on macroeconomic and sectoral policy
analysis to foster greaer awarenes of the need for a broad-based macroeconomic policy reform.
The Bank's economic and sector work has, Indeed, helped define the government's
macroeconomic and sectoral policy agenda. Over the last two years, the govemment has
increasigly sought the Bank's informal technical assistance in formulating its reform program.
1n the meantime, modest IBRD lending has been feasible because of the government's prudent
exal debt management and readiness to undertake, selectively, sector-specific policy changes.
45.          The Ban's strategy of mantaining support for infrastructure (e.g. railways,
highways, low-cost housing, power), family planning and health care, and poverty alleviation
(e.g., communal farming, afforestation, and small scale enterprises) has assisted in bringing about
significant advances. Through project lending, it has also been possible to secure progress on
some important sector policy issues. Project implementation and disbursement have been uneven,
but are likely to improve as a result of ongoing work to revise government procurement policies
and streamline disbursement procedures.
46.          The government's recent decision to embark on a program of stuctra
adjustmen improves the prospects for Zimbabwe's macroeconomic and sectoral policy
fiamework. If reform proceeds as currendy planned, Bank lendmg to the country will increase
gnficantdy over the next five years. A proportion of these resources will be made available on
IDA tms, as Zimbabwe was declared IDA-eligible in August 1991. ITe role of the Bank is to
support the goverment in the dmely execution of the adjustment program through all available
instruments (i.e., lending, economic and sectur work, and aid coordination). However, the
overall level of Bank support, as well as the type of instruments used (e.g. adjustment lending)
wil be contingent on the pace and scope of reform.
47.          The basic objectives of the Bank's assistance are: Oi acelerating economic
growth through a regeneration of investment; (ii) promotion of an equitable paen of
development, through support to communal farmers and fostering of small-scale and informal
sectors; (iii) efficient development of key infrastructure and services in both rural and urban
areas; (iv) sustaiig  and exending government's successful efforts in hman resource
development, as well as helping to minimize the social costs of the adjustment process; and (v)
promoting effective conservation and management of the enviromnent.
48.          The Bank's Structural Adjustment Operation amounted to US$175 million
(US$125 milion IBRD; US$50 million IDA) in support of Zimnabwe's economic reform
program. In order to assist in the financing of the exceptional Import requiremens resulting from
the drought as well as to ensure, indirectly, that sufficient external financing ror the continaon
of the country's adjustment efforts would be available, the Bank initiated a drive among the donor
community to raise (addmional) resources for drought relief and recovery. This drive, which was
adihed during the CG Meeting and followed-up during the recent SPA Meeing in Washington,
has been positive. The proposed Emergency Drought Recovery Credit constes the Bank's
direct contuton to the governent's drought recovery program. In addition, the Bank has
been reviewing ks exstng portfolio in Zimbabwe to identify possible reallocations to assist in
dealing with the impact of the drought.
10



49.          For the period of 1992 to 1995, two fst disbursing SALs are planned, along with
a contnuation of project lending for agriculre, energy, urban infiastructure, small-scale
enterrise development, family planning and health care. The lending program will be broadened
to assist the ountry In tacking key constraints to the success of economic adjustment, notably
in the onsrton industry and in telecommunications. Te Banks' economic and sector work,
which involves considerable collaboration with Zimbabwe nationals and has thereby strengthened
domestic analytical capacity, wi1l also be continued to assist government in the execution and
monilt of the adjustme_ pogsam. In addition, longer-term economic and social issues,
Including th enviment and humn resource development, will receive increasing attention.
Finally, the Bank wil strengthen aid coordnaton around the technical and financial requirements
of the adjustment program, primarily through the Consultaive Group for Zimbabwe.
11



C. REUA1L  GOVERNPI ERQOItM DESCRIPTQN
50.          The Government's Drought Relief and Recovery Program is described In some
detl in the govenment Letter of Emergency Drought Policy, attached as Section 0. Ihe
following is a sector-bysector summary of the main components of this program. The
goverment's progmn also includes a number of measures aimed at expanding Implementation
capacity and mitigating the effects of fiture emergencies, which are discussed in Section D.
A. Food Sctg
51.          Food Import Reqents. Normally a net exporter of food commodities,
Zimbabwe wiUl be forced by the impact of the drought to import over 2 million tons of food,
including at least 1.4 million tons of grain. WFP has organized a worldwide appeal for food
relief, under which donors are expeced to contribute 721,000 tons of cereal food aid.
52.          Food-for-Work Program. TheDepartmnof Social Welfare (DSW) adminters
the community-based Food-for-Work program (FFW). FFW requires that recipients paticipat
in public works, so as to discourage dependency of the rural population, to target food
distributions to the most needy, and to mobilize available labor for the development of community
infrastrcture. Only the elderly and disabled are eligible for free food distrbutions. As food
shortages deepen through the end of the year, up to 700,000 workers are expected to require
employment under the program, in order to obtain food for a total of S million people, about 70
percent of the rural population.
53.          Ihe ability of FFW to accommodate these large increases in employment has been
limited by government budgetay consuaints. For example, of the Z$25 million requested for
the May program, only 60 percent was allocated by the government to meet the program's
xeses. As a result, actual employment is expected to be substantially below the required
levels, reaching little more ta half of the targeted 500,000. In the past, the scope and
producivity of FFW works projects has also been constrained by a lack of material hiputs and
transport, again reflecting budgetuy contrain.
54.          Food Wage Procurement. FFW  was originally designed to supplement the
ffective incomes and consumption of a small proportion of the rura population in chronically
drough-affected areas. During the first half of 1992, however, FFW will be transformed from
a moderately-scaled employment program intended to supplement incomes and consumption, to
a massive logistics and management operation which will represent the primary source of
employment and food for most people in rural areas.
55.          Based on consultations with the Mbistry of Health's Department of Nutrion and
other  perts, the food wage payment for paricipating in FFW is to be increased from 10 to 15
kilograms of maize per capita per month. In addition to maize, an addidonal 100 grams of dried
meat or fish per peson per day will be provided to complete the basic food wage ration. ITese
changes in the basic food wage ration have been made as a result of the extent of the current
drought emergency and the increased role of FFW as the primary source of food for households
in affected areas.
12



56.          The esmated increase In FFW participants will raise the program's monthly food
rqiremflet to appro5imatelys6,039 tons of maize and 1,868 tons of dried meat or fish over the
next 14 mont  (totaling 784,546 and 26,152 tons, respectively). The total cost of the food
wage, excluding transport costs, will be approximutely US$240.6 million, or an average monthly
cost of US$16.8 million. At curret prices, the dried meat and fish component will cost
approximatly US$5.2 million over the next 14 months, or US$0.4 million/month. Donors have
indicad ierest in providing some food assistance, especially gran, but the government itself
wil have to cover a substal proportion of these costs. It is also expected that any eventual
donor supplies wilt be delayed becuse of the time necessary to obtain commitments and to
transport commdiies.
57.          Food ortla       and LoaUcs. Food supplies for FFW are obtained by DSW
from Grain Marketing Board (G0M) depots in rur areas. DSW is responsible for the transport
of those food supplies from the GMB depots to Its approximately 1,500 distribution sites around
the country. A lack of reliable transport has proven to be a major constraint on the effecdveness
of FFW In the past Government regulations currently prevent DSW from contracting with
private transport operators to assist in its food distribution. DSW relies instead on government
vehicles provided by CMED, DDF, and RMS, which are not available to DSW on a full-time
basis. This creates problems of scheduling which severely limit DSW's distribution capacity.
5S.          To ensure the effective distribution of food supplies durng the drought
emergency, tie govenment wiUl make an increased number of CMED, DDF and RMS vehicles
available to FFW on a full-time basis. Even so, as is discussed in detail in the following section
on transport, governmt vehicles wiUl be unable to meet the total increased trasport needs of
the envioned epansion of FFW. For this reasom, the government will allow for the hire of
cmei  transport tO meet FFVWs requirements that exceed the capacity of the government
59.          The tot co to DSW of local transport from GMB depot to distributionsite wil
ultialy depend on the number of government vehicles made available to DSW during the
drough emegeny. A preliminary estmate of costs for shipping 810,697 tons of maize, dried
meat and fish over a 14-month period is apprximaty US$12.1 million.
60.          Close cordinati  will be required between DSW and GMB to minimize the
tnsport costs and simplify logistics. Ihis will be achieved, in part, by DSW preparing a
monly dtributi  schedule Il advmce, broken down by depot, as well as the development of
peiodic foreca  of future quaities required at each depot.
61.                     i transport operato  will be contracted on a competitive tender basis.
Sepuatetndes for cowa  Iin each province will be prepared by the cetral DSW, to ensure
greater competiion in bidding. Under a program of technical assistance described below, a
system to monitor commodity movements and procedures for the timely payment of commercial
transport opertors will be developed in order to ensure accurate record-keeping and minimize
potenial transport delays.
62.                              The envisioned expansion of FFW under the current
drouht emergency re         nearly a S-fold increase over the program's past levels of
employment and food dribsuto   The need for more detailed planning and coordination,
ncread transport requireme, and the hire of commercial vehicles are factors which have not
13



previously been confionted. Under these extreme circumstances, some strengthening of DSW'
will be required to ensure proper planning, administration and monitoring of FFW.
63.          At the central level it will be necessary to establish an emergency coordinaon
unit under the direction of the National Drought Relief Coordinator at DSW. The unit will
consist of.
(a) a relief specialist responsible for the technical coordination of all aspects of
the relief operation, the development of information to assist in basic food
allocation decisions, and support of targeting methodologies currently In place;
(b) a  asport specalist responsible for the planning of transport needs,
prepation of commercial transport contracts, and transport managemen;
(c) a speciist (or specialists) responsible for monitoring of commodity
movements and financial accounting, as well as the development of stanadized,
computer-based inventory control and finncial accounting systems; and
(d) a specialist responsible to develop a program to improve the technical
supervision of works projects.
64.          Ihe central emergency unit staff would also be responsible for the training of
ceral, provincial and district-level staff. The unit will require a computer specialist, additional
support staif, including clerks and secrearies. Computers (2) and related equipment, software
and supplies wil also be required to support the unit's operations.
65.          The expected total costs of the food-for-work program:
(in US$ millions)
Food Wage Component                  240.6
Local Transport                       12.1
Material Inuts                         3.6
Veldcles and Equipment                 0.8
Additional Field Staff                 0.4
Instutional Support                    0.6
Total                               $258.1
66.          Child Suppl         Feeding Program. Children under the age of five are
especily vulneable to more rapid and severe nuritional deterioration as a result of drought-
related food sbortages. Becase of their inability to consume sufficient volumes of the bulky,
low-enegy maize porridge staple, maize alone will not satisfy their addional energy
requirements during the curenT emergency. Therefore, these groups require foods that are
higher-density and higher in prtein to satisfy basic energy requirements.
67.          The government has initiated a supplementary feeding program, initialy targeted
toward cidren under the age of five, in conjunction with the general food distribution under
14



FFW. Ii  nhe Child Supplm     y Feeding Program (CSFP) will be administered by the
of Nution in the Mlstry  of Health (MOH). MOH will be able to build on
exprience gained under a similar supplementary feeding program implemented between 1981
and 1986, evem tough the curent crisis i epected to require a much larger-sae effort.
68.          Ihe goal of CSFP is to provide a single, daily supplementary meal to children,
which should provide one-third to onehalf of total daily energy requirements. However, the
widkpread impact of the 1991/92 drought and the expected scale of need will inevitably
complicate Implementation of CSFP. Becae C&?P is designed to supplement a basic maize-
based food ration, shortages of maize could undermine the supplementary natre of the program.
Therefo, success of CSFP will ultmately depend on the success of the cross-border food
trasport operation and, in particular, the sucess of the general feeding operation to be
implemented under FFW.
69.          As a result of the drought. 704,000 hildren currently require supplementary
feeding. As the year wears on, as many as 1.5 million children could require assistance under
the program. 20,000 feeding centers will be necessary to provide sufficient access to the
supplementary food rations. Ikese will be managed by village community health workers, with
support from ward coordintors, and local women's groups.
70.          At current prices, the cost to MOH in obtaining the requisite food commodities
will be awpimn ely Z$93 million (US$19 miUlion). The acquisition of these supplementary
food commodities is an urgent necessity will constitute an important element in the govermnent's
food import program.
71.          Ihe quantiie of food to be transported under CSFP will seriously stretch its
eisting transport capacity. Therefore, it wfll be especially necessary to coordinate as much as
possible MOH transport opeato  with those of FFW and GMB. The cost of transporting and
string these commodities is expected to reach Z$9.5 million (US$1.9 million).
72.   .      NuIinal Surveilhnce and -jIgig. The likely scarcity of food supplies,
especially in the early stages of the transport and relief operation, imply the need to establish
prorties In basic fod allocations. Food allocations will need to be targeted to the most needy
geographica areas and to the neediest individuals so that the limited supplies of food are deployed
to maximum effet. it is therefre necessary to have in place an extensive, reasonably sensitdve,
and timely information system to esre responsive targeting. Data should be collecd at the
mmuy leel and reflect both the availability of food supplies and recent changes in nutritional
status.
73.          Adequate information regarding the availability of food resources already exists
from Atex crop monitoring effors. However, the existing nutritional surveillance system in
Zimbabwe, while extenive, is neither timely, representative, nor sensitive to recent changes in
conditions. Iher is a need for addional information during the emergency period to screen
children for eligibility under CSFP. As a result, the MOH is initiating a Community-Based
Growth Monitoring Prom to measure and weigh children, as a means of screeing participants
l/Other typically vulnerable groups, including pregnant and lactating women, the elderly and
school-aged children, may eventually be included in the government's supplementary feeding
efforts.
is



in CSFP and to deny other neesary nutrition Interventons. UNICEF will provide some
rsources for basic equipment and training I suport of these growth monitig eforts. The
Growth Moniting Pogram wll ultimately also provide asdstance In the targeting of the genera
food d bution system under FFW.
74             stidtikna Streng1heing. The goverment will establish a tehnical secat
&t MOH to coordie the over maagemet, information and logistics of CSFP. UNICEF wil
prvido support for the necsary addional support staff, equipment  d the reciment of a
full-time tehical expert, ncuding a senior mtitdonist to oversee the program.
75.         In total, the  xpected cos of CSFP are as follows:
(in US$ million)
Food                               $18.6
Transport  d Stor                   $ 1.9
Equiment                            $ 0.1
Addional Staff                      $0.3
Total                              $20.9
76.          Urban Inmgratlon. As yet there bave been only isolated repors of po n
movenents from rural to u     areas. However, if government efflorts in food distibuion and
water provision fal to adequty address the needs of the rural populaon, a marked increase
Of migration to service centers, growth points, and urban areas is expected. With six major
urban centers already expeiencing swere water shrtage, providing basic sevio   to any
addiona populatios would be difficult. Given the already severe overcrowding in most urban
areas, the bmigratin of significant numbers of hungry and manourished people would
consitt a  riou  health ri8sk
77.          To addresss hpoteni problem, the Dep           of Physical Plang in the
Mnistry of Local Govenment, Rural and Urban Migration is seeking extnal financing for a
contingency plan to asist u     omUncis to deal wih possible large e in-migration. As part
of this plan, this dment would begin to monitor population movements during the drought
Thne dqht as the expience of planning some squatter settlements in the Harare area and
is curny involved in the planing of Rural District Couci are. The expected cost of the
plan and monitDorng is expected to be approxiely US$300,000.
78.          Ihe plan would assess the feasibility of using public works to esablish temporary
camps, as wel as linking these actvites to longer-term development priorWies. For example,
temporary shelter devdoped under the emergency program, if propely designed, could be
constucte to serve as classrooms or clinics. With proper planming, watr and sanitation
fcilities dvloped as part of an eme     progm  might similarly provide a longer-em
functo
B.
79.          Due tD the musive crop failure in Zimbabwe this year, apEproximatly 2 million
tons of food - 1.4 millIon tons of cereals alone - willhave to be imported inZababwe in the
16



nex 12 mo0ths. Cross-border gran movements will be complcajed by the large qunies of
grain being imported io ghm Southern Africa region as a whole: in totl, Southen Africa will
requi  11.6 million tons to be Imported over the ne  year.
80.          En.lng that thes commodies ca be broug  Ito the country and properly
disbuted represes a major plang and logistcs effrt% well beyond any previous experien.
The local distibuto of food supplies will be especialy complicated by the count's under-
devloped food martng system. This is a particular problem In the chronically drought-
affected, food-deficit aeas.
81.          The Mint of Trasrtatio has primay responsibility for food t ot ,
wbile the Grain Markting Board (GMB) has authority over all main purchas  and movements
Io the country and to its 74 local dep. 'Me current massive css-border operation is a new
experience for GMB, whIch taonaly ers moderate quantities of maize In normal yes.
At te same time, GMB has long bee accustomed to dealing wift NationAl Raiway of Zimbabwe
(NRZ) and baulers with resPect t edc traffic and has well-established procedur for tenders
and contacts. Apart from t  challege of the scale of food movements, there ar no significalt
problems in Carying out this bsc responsibility.
82.          The devlpment of mrad trmsport sector has been particularly limied by a
resictve regulaory envioment, nluding strict road tranport licensing reqiements. Along
with a lak of foreig  exne, this has sigalficantiy diminished the size of the fleet and
Incred isage Fortunately, the goverm     made signiicant strides in 1991 in streamlining
some of the more crt   regulatory constraints. As part of its recovery program, the
ve         itends to enact further deaton of asport. In addition to its long-term
Importane, this further action wll faclitate emergency tsport efforts during the drought.
83.                              Because of the regional dimensions of the curt drought
situan both ship and Inmd trap   movemens need to be caefully coordiaed to avoid
dirptve botlncks and demand conflicts. Coodination wil be especialy important in
managing  regional and corrid    movements. Accordingly, the railways in the region ar
coordI ng thei own actvties, the SADCC Food Security Unit Is working to harmonize the
vaous Import programs of member counties and South Africa, and WFP is establishing an
in -Imation urit to monitor commodity m vments throughout the region.
84.          Zimbabwe expect to import at least 1.4 mllio tons of food ommodities via
South Afica ports, pinpaly Port Elizabeth and East London. NRZ has araged to hire six
loomotives frm South Africa to nsure the feasibility of these planned food movements through
South Afica  The addiional hired locomotives will be neceary at least until the expected
arivl of DeW USAID-finad locmotives for NRZ arond September 1992.
85.          A potena difficul may arise in that there is virtually no capacity t stocie
Impot  maize at South African ports (since these ports are ognized primary for export
traffic). Any backlog of grain wil have to be shpped out as rapidiy as possible, either by rai
or road to Warmbad, subsequey to be stpied by GMB.
86.          Sub l ques of relief supplies will also be shpped via Bera,
MoZambique0. The port's addional annual dwoughput capacity is approximately 1 mllion tons,
ad *e government expect t 60 pecenlt wMi be earmrked for Zimbabwe. Careful scheduling
to avoid bwldogs at port Is especially Iportan given the limited berth capacity in Bema  To
17



bring this cargo to Zimbabwe, the govenmment will first resort to rail transport, but it can rely
on road hadage for any remainder. Other potential routes through Mozambique are unlikely to
be used, unless security considerations can be overcome.
87.          In principle, planned transport corridors should allow Zimbabwe to Import an
additional 6,470 tons of food per day, or 2.33 million tons over the course of the year. Ibis
would be sufficient for Zimbabwe's estimated requirements, plus a reasonable margn. However,
there are three risks: (1) that other countries in the region may need to exploit some of this
surplus capacity; (2) that routes may be disrupted by accidents, equipment failures, botdeneck,
or security problems; and (3) that poor coordination of port arrivals leads to bunching and
congestion.
88.          For its drought operations, NRZ will require US$5 million in critical locomotive
spares. Ihe govermnent will access these funds from the Bank's existing Railways U Project.
In addition, USAID will provide US$7 million to finace the leasing of rail wagons. The
aggregate cost of etrnal transportation for the relief and recovery operation is estimated at
US$175 million over the next 12 months.
89.          Donors have provided for additiona bagging equipment at Beira to support the
handling of imported grain. USAID is providing assistance to GMB in obtaning additional
vacutors and baging equipment for bulk trains arriving via Beitbridge through Dabukl While
the GMB board has not flly identified its requirement or made a specific request, it appears
likely that an additional four each of vacuators and bagging machines will be needed at a cost of
approximately US$0.5 million. Also, the Mozambican railway will require four additional
locomotives, to be hired from South Africa.
90.          GMB is also reponsible for intrnal movements from reception point to principal
depots and direct delivery by road from rail heads to mills and to the remainder of GMB's 74
deots. The total OMN  road anspo  requirement is esmated at 570 mIllion ton-km (350
million ton-km for cross-borde traffic, and 220 million ton-km for long-haul interna traffic).
The capacity of Zimbabwe's long-haul fleet is more than sufficient for handling this incremental
volume of GMB road freight trffic.
91.          LoW               Local distribution is carried out by coercial millers,
private traders, the Deart    of Social Welfare (for its Food-for-Work Program) and the
Ministry of Health (for its Child Supplementary Feeding Program). The iternal transport
of imported foodstuffs is estimated to require capacity of nearly 160 million ton-km (equialent
to a dstribudon fleet of about 575 vehicles2O.
92.          CMED and DDF vehicles have the capacity to carry approximtely 50 milion
tonkm.L The govermnent will contract commercially for nearly 400 vehicles to tramsport the
remaining 110 million ton-am less than a quarter of the combined commercial and CFU fleets.
Although the fleet is sufficient to assure the tedcnical feasibility of carryg out internal food
distribution, there remain 3 critical policy issues:
The requirement of 575 vehicles is based on an average capacity of 8 tons, although actual
capacities wl vary between 5 and 14 tons. While in some cases it may be possible to use
heavier vebicles, only lighter lorries are considered for the purposes of ftis exercise.
18



a.           tis analysis assumes that GMB and the Food-for-Work program
coordinat to ensure that all grain desdned for Food-for-Work is tramported to
the depot nest each distribution point, rendering local haulage efflcien and
cost-effctve
b.          the Food-for-Work program has been discouraged from hirng
commercial vebicles to transport relief commodities, but the government will
have to hange this policy since the public fleet only has 40 percent of the needed
trausport capacity; and
c.          the government will have to develop a mechanism to as
prompt payment to commerci haulers.
The esmated total cost for the intenad transortation of items required for drought relief and
recovery $17 million, including US$7 million for fuel for government vehicles.
93.          Vehicle spares. The public and private trasport fleets in Zimbabwe have
suffere from a debilitating shortage of replacement vehicles, vehicle spares, and equipment. As
a result, both fleets have large numbers of life-epired vehicles, and an unreasonable proportion
of vehicles are inoperative at any given time. Although largecale vehicle replacement is not
immediaty feasible, the govermnt wil provide $4 million m foreign exdchnge to freight
haulers for the importation of vehicle spares and equipment, and will allocate another $4 million
for its own truck fleet. lhe government will institte control mechanisms for the storage and use
of public sector vehicle spare parts that are acceptable to the Association.
C.           Agricultur
94.          Without assistance, most housholds in the CA will be unable to prepare land or
purchase Inputs for the 1992/93 planting season. And if the 1992/93 harvests should prove
nadequate, food relief effous would likely have to be contied on a large scale through April
1994. Iherefbre the govemen's firt priority is to restore minimum food self-sufficiency to
fams in the commun  aeas (CA), by proviing critical inputs for next year's crops. The
government also hopes to rebuild the economic viability of the agriculture sector in general.
95.          Ihe governmens program consists of the following components:
a.           iAgltual inputs - seed, fertilizer, and crop chemicals - to
be dstibutd to drought-affed farmers through commercial channels under a
coupon voucher scheme;
b.          land Preparation, supervised by DDF, consisting of lard
preparation by private and public trars, contract ox plowing, distribution of
implements for minimal animal tillage, and hand hoeing under the Food-for-
Work program;
c.           Small IUvestock Restoking. As an alternative for farmers who
cannot or do not receive tillage services, those who participate in Food-for-Work
19



may choose istead to receive as their wage the cost-equivalent of dllage services
in the form of small livestock;
d.           Cotton Inputs Scheme, under which inputs are provided to
regstered CA cotton farmers, to be reimbursed at the time of their deliveries of
harvested cotton to the ginerles.
e.           Importation of raw materials, and spares and equipment to
support agricultural producdon in both the CA and the LSCS;
f.           Improved Producer Price Incentives to induce sufficient food
and cash crop harvests in the 19921M season.
96.          The goverment's plan to provide crop inputs and land preparation in the CA is
highly cost effective, particularly in comparison with the likely alternative of having to import
maize again next year. 'Me cost to the government of providing agricultural inputs to a farmng
family is approximately one-fikh the cost that the government will incur this year for grai
imports to feed that same family. The government has concluded that it is impracticable to
inte ful cost recovery mes In the present emergency coutext, and the Assocation
concurs. However, as a condition of receiving assistance, recipients will be required to
participate in FFW, where the program exists.
97.          The specifics of the agricultura recovery program and its costs are set forth in
the attached government Letter of Emergency Drought Policy. A summary of these pro%am
costs follows. The total cost of the crop pack program is esftimated to be US$111.3 million, with
a foreign exchange component of US$37.1 million. The total cost of public and private ractor
imports and land cultivation is estimated to be US$59.4 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$42.9 milion. Livestock restocking will cost about US$24.0 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$4.0 million.
98.          The government recovery program provides for the importation of fertilizer
(US$12 milion), agricutural chemicals (US$19 mfllion), agricultural spares for the private (US$7
million) and public sectors (JS$3 million), and equipment and intermediate products (US$5
million). Inputs for smallholder cotton production, on a reimbursable basis, would amount to
US$13 million, of which, US$5.7 mfllion would be foreign exchange. Ihe government will
inste control mecims for the storage and use of public sector agricultural spare parts that
are acceptable to the Association.
D.           Wat %WWI
99.          Ihe water sector component of the govemment's emergency program seeks the
immediate alleviation of water shortages caused by the drought and the short-term provision of
sufficient water to last unti the next rains near the end of the year. The government hopes to
avert substantial human sufering in the short-term and to forestall potent  large population
movements from rurl areas.
100.         Bank Group involvement in the water sector of Zimbabwe is relatively new. It
has recently completed a Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Review (currendy in yellow cover
form). The government and Bank have collaborated closely to ensure that the rural component
20



of the emergency program is consistent with the long-term development goals enunciated in that
Review. Lessons learned from the preious drought have also been incorpoaed, espeily a
reognition of the Importne of rehabilitatng existing water sources and of building on existg
I    tional structues. Ihe Bank is also financig urban water augmentation through the Urban
11 Project.
101.         Sector Recovery Program. The water sector is compartively well-organized
to rpond to the drought. Drught-rlated water policy is coordinated, planned and directed by
the Nationa Action Committee (NAC), an inter-ministerial plamnng committee chaired by the
Ministry of Loca Government, Rural and Urban Development (MLGRUD). Ihe NAC's
program Inudes immediae and short-term measures to address the drought-relatd water
r p eu p VI 0of rural and urban populations. It also includes analysis to help devise longer-term
strates for the sector.
102.         Ihere are nmero  subcomponents to the government's water program,
reflecting the inherently multi-imensional vature of water supply rehabilitation. The unifying
approach reflected In the pogram Is a focus on the restoration of existing sources, and
improvements in their opeaton and maintenance. The program also calls for a limited and
targeted effort to augmet eing water sources through private sector drilling. It also stresses
the aoution of community participation in the siting, rehabilitation, and protection of water
source. Where feasible, private sector assets have also been enlisted in this efforL
103.         Although the program is highly ambitious given the short-term emergency
context, the government has sought to make it (1) feasible, (2) sustinale in the long run, and
(3) implemetable using eisting resources. The proposed water program consists of the
followiu cmpon :
(a)     h =         gm 700 zisting boireJlaal by DDF (service to 175,000) -
$0.8 million;
0b)  g on se        for rehabilitation of vehicles, rigs and bowsers to be used
by DDF and MBWIUD for emergency water supply program - $0.45 million;
(c) Rehabiltate4ik pted water sAUlies. DDF- and MEWRD- maged piped
water schemes will be rehabilitated and fitted with engines and pumps (service
to 225,000) - $5.8 million.
(d) R£abilitate 1900 fy or iMerative dMAll by DDF (service to 475,000) -
- $0.7 milion;
(e) Rebabilitate 15O dry or inoperaive boreholes (service to 375,000) - $1.8
million;
(f) HXydrUic-Fracug of 900 dry or inoere boreholes by MEWRD
(sevice to 114,000) - $ 1.0 million. Contingent on finacing, an additional
2000 boreholes will be hydralically fractured under private contract at an
estimaed cost of $1.5 milion;
(g).   MEWRDADDF-managed program for borehole siting.
The cost of US$0.6 million,including resistivity survey equipment. The
21



compone may Include a private sector surveying program. Financing expected
from CIDA and/or SIDA; and
(h) Cmmunky blida . Materials and supervisory support for community
involvement in the wrual water program, witfi assistance from Ministry of
Community and Cooperatve Development, at a cost of US$2.4 million.
(I) DrilHing ofnew boreholes. 1,100 new boreholes to be drilled by DDF and
MEWRD using existig and rehabilitated equipment to provide service to
275,000 people. Required imported consumables will amount to US$1.2 mlion.
On thae condition that the government is able to acquire additional drilling rigs
(using non-Bank Group resources), it intends to drill another 1,000 boreholes.
Rigs would be Imported by the public sector and, to the extent feasible, leased
to private sector operators under contract in priority areas. Approximately four
rigs have already been pledged by ODA, and the government seeks an additional
eight rigs valued at US$9 million. The cost of spares and consumables for this
contingency would be US$1.0 million.
104.        In addition, emergency water supply augmentation schemes have been proposed
for five towns, amoutn to US$3.9 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$2.4
million. Since these towns are not covered under the Urban rI Project, their foreign exchange
costs would be financed under the proposed Credit.
105.         NCU Is receiing technical assistance from NORAD to support overall program
coordnatin, iormation management, and program reporting fimctions, as well as to alleviate
drought-rdead staffing shortages. NORAD will also provide assistance to urban councils for
development and Implementation of specific conservation strategies, for training workshops for
omucl staf, and to fin;ace equipment to implement conservation measures. In addition, ODA
wifl fiance a conaervation study for Bulawayo, with an ensuing worlshop on its findings for
urban councils. Additional exral fnacig is being sought for consultants t conduct technical,
financial, and eronmenal sessments of water supply augmentation measures for Bulawayo
and Mutar, which are at risk of exhasting their water supplies before December 1992.
Resources may also be required for an additional eight towns that could face serious water
shortages later in the year. Accep     proposals may be financed separately, under the Bank's
Urban E Projet
106.        The NAC wi coordinate implementation of the water component with assistance
from NCU. Actual imp lon will be carried out by the four main government agencies -
MLGRUD, DDF, Ministy of Energy, Water Resources and Development (MEWD), and
Minstry of Health (MOR) - as outlined In the govermnent's Letter of Emergency Drought
Policy.
22



D. SlES AND MEC3  IAL-ANSSIANCE
107.         As is true with many other natural disastets, the economic Impact of this drought
is stronly compounded by numerous int     of poor policies and imstitonal weaknesses. For
exwampl, a whinxtion of low rainfll and weak management caused stored water in major dams
to d-indle over the pat 4 years to its lowest level on record. Water management remains poor,
and the govermat has only recety begun an ad hoc program of water conservaton.
Agricultur price cotrols and other related regulations have long hampered food supply and
distribution. Buffer supplies of grain were allowed to decline to unprecedented low levels, and
the government failed to finance a replenishment, even after the need to do so had been
established. Restrictive  portation policies, which were partially liberalized only recently,
have left the couny dependent for food distnbution on an inadequate and aged vehicle fleet.
Moreover, the reliability of the road network has been compromised by inadequate maintenance.
108.         The government recognizes that responding to the drought will be an extreme test
Of its implentaton capadty. For this reason, the government has secured resources from
ctnal donors to enhance its ability to carry out its relief and recovery program rapidly and
effcdvely. In addion, the gment has reached agreement with donors to undertake certain
actions to Iden  and correct policies dtat would exacerbate losses and suffering in the event of
a future drought, and to strengthen the count's capacity to respond to emergencies in general.
109.         Three such actvities were programmed prior to the drought's onset
(a) Food Security Project (finaced by USAID), including pricing policy, and
aicultural parastatal reform and strategic planing;
(b) tecdnical and endng assistance to the National Action Committee for
water supply (fiaced by NORAD);
(c) an emaegency preparedness study (financed by USAID), which includes
of eady warning systems and their information flows;
110.        in response to the current drought, the following additional actions have been
idlentied, and are being or will be undertaken under the governmens emergenocY drought
recovey ptogram:
(a) technical aistce  to the Deparm   of Social Welfare (tentatively to be
finaced by NORAD) for management, monitoring, accountg, auditing, and
training rdead to the expanded Food-for-Work progrm
(b) addtion  resources from SIDA to the National Coordiating Unit for
assistance with new hydrogeology techology.
(c) a drought mitgaion study (financed by NORAD), coift  of sectora
stgies to minimize the impact of drought on productit, icomes and
services through long-tm development investments such as public works/food-
for-work; livesck market development and marketng policy reform; livestck
emergency off-te and re-stocking schemes; analysis of rural credit instiutions
and mechnisms to better manage drought risk.
23



(d)     m    I  of the recomntions of existing (UNDP) and ongoing
(USAID) studies of emergenq preparedness (fnaced by NORAD), including
development of a sectoa and coordiaed multi-sectoral disaster stategies for
emergency response; taining in disater management; contingency plan for
possle seoond yea of drought and other fitmre disasters (e.g., AIDS impact,
natural and human accidents).
(e) MOH planning, logistics and mutritional surveilance to support child
supply feedig program (partly finaced by UNICEF), including a
nutritnist and planming and logistics specialists.
(f) a region-wide drought emergency relief program (finalced by USAID),
Iniluding logistical support and enhancement of early waig system.
(g) a national urban water conservation strategy, including loss reduction
(finane by NORAD). Program includes technical assistnce for saegy
development (to follow ODA study for Bulawayo), and traiig   workshops for
muici pal wate sector staff (to be coordinated by the Univerity of Zimbabwes
Trining Cear for Watr & Sanitai).
*h) a contingency study of the prospective impact of and response to accelerated
uban in-migrai, including an implementation plan.
(D a fulnd to finance short-tem  hiring of local consutants to expand
Implemention capacity related to the agricultural recovery component.
() a study and action plan to encourage non-tradional, iom  generation
acivities in drouht-prone areas.
24



111.         The proposed Credit will disbure against a positive list of imports designed to
suot te count's emgeny drougt recovery needs. The list Includes:
(a)          Ptroleum products (not to exceed 20% of the Credit);
(b)          Selected motor vehicles (motorbikes, trucks, tractors, and pickp
trucks);
(c)          Spare parts for vehicles and agricultural equipment;
(d)          Agricultural Inputs, including crop seed, farm  equipment,
implements, spares, fertilizer and fertilizer inputs, and
chemicals;
(e)            um  for water works, including steel inputs, swveying
eqpment, water drilling spares, and consumable materias (but
excluding borehole drilling rigs);
(t)          Microcomputers, software and related equipment; and
(g)          Construction materis.
Pro- ftmrduru
112.         The proposed Credit of US$150 miUlion would finance 100 pecent of the CIF
costs of imports specified in the positive list above. Public and private sector procement will
use simplifid itea lcompetiive bidding (ICB) pocedues for powrement contracts
valued at US$500,000 equvalent or more, in accordance with the World Bank C?oup's
Procurement Guidelines 31 (see para. 119 for exception related to fuel). Under these
guideines, bids must be adversd and publicly opened, and contracts be awarded to the lotrest
evauated bidder. Imo  contracted by the public sector that are estied to cost less tla
US$500,000 equivalent will follow public sector procurement procedures that have been reviewed
and found acce       by the Association, and will include secring at least three quotations from
at least wo coies for all concts, except where direct contacting is permissibleunder World
Bank Group Procurement Guidelines (see OD 11.03, para. 3.5).
113.         By and large, prae sector procurement procedures for major private Importe
are based on sole sourcing, which fais to safeguard against trade malpractice. Imports contracted
by th private sector that are   mated to cost less than US$500,000 wil include seuring at least
three quotations fom at least two countries, except where direct contracting is permissible. All
I See Wodd Bank Guidelines: Proument under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(Wasdhgton, D.C., May 1985).
25



procurement will include preshipment inpections for verification of quality, quantity, and prico
(ecept tOat ICB prueme  resultng in adequate competition will be exempt from price
verification).
114.         Up to US$30 million of the Credit (20 percent) may be used to finance public
sector hIportation of petroleum products, to be procured in accordance with simplified ICB.
Commodity imports, cuding petroleum products, chemicals and fertilizers, by any purchaser
will be pacged for bulk procurement under simplified ICB procedures.
115.        Imports shipped prior to April 1992 would not be eligible for Associaion
financing. Conac  valued at less than US$2,000 would not be eligible for Asociadon
fiag. Retroactive fiancig would be acceptable to the Association, up to US$30 million
for expedt    paid duidg the three month period precedig the loan signature.
116.         The private sector is contracting for a total of $4.9 million of various cropseeds
that hve been adapted to the specific conditions of Southem Africa. These shall be procured on
the basis of an evauaion and compaison of bids from at least three qualified bidders or under
ote pues satisctoy to the Association. Prpretary equipment, proprietary spare parts,
and stadardized equipment, may be procured under direct contracting procedures up to an
eggmw amoumt of US$500,000. In the case of agricultural equipment and vehicles, the
Assocation will fine imports made by these agents from their principals. 4  Procurement
under eistng Bank Project, duly amended, must conform to the procedures specified In the
respective Loa or Credit Agreements.
117.        IDA wfll provide the Government of Zimbabwe with guidelines for acceptable
standards of ICB procurcet and disbursement to assist the government in preparing required
documents.  Procurem,a ot and disbumen methods must conform to th  IDA-apprved
prcs specified in this Amnex. Transactions that do not so conform will not be financed by
IDDA.
18.         A General Pocurement Notice has been submitted to the vmnent Busine's
for publication in the issue of July 16, 1992. The notice will list the main categories of imports
to be finnced under the credit, rcmmends ta Bank Group-eligible exporters contact poea
local impos, and Invites supliers interested in the monthly petroleum procurement to registe
with TB.
119.         Each ext   agency has established a procurement unit to undertake
procurement activities in respet of the drought program. Their organization, key staff, and
procedures  ll be acceble to the Asociation. In MLARR and MLMPSW, and NAC, the
units will retain one or more on-e procement specialists (Crown Agents or another acceptable
prourmen  cotancyr fim), under terms of reference acceptable to the Asociation, to
ficilitate procurme  and the training of public sector procurement staff.  M   will
coordinate thir activites and will provide monhly progress report of procurement activies to
the Associton.
iTmese markts operate very much as in industriad economies: most manufactrers of
agriculturalequi na and vehicles are represented through local dealers, who are free to
import from their princpals and compete in the local market.
26



120.         Disbursements for contracts for less than US$500,000 equivalent would be made
agaist Statment of Expenditure. The relevant documentation would be kept locally and for
auditors whose terns of reference for procurement audits would be acceptable to the Association.
The accountg and auditing procedures of the Reserve Bank are generally acceptable to the
Association, and are in the process of being fturther strengthened.
Status t Bank Group Operations
121.         Since fiscal year 1981, there have been 21 projects benefitting Zimbabwe,
Involving 18 Bank loans (US$776 million) and 5 IDA credits (US$103 million) totaling US$879
million (net of cancelatons). Three projects (one of which included IDA and Bank financing)
supported the Industrial sector, including imports first for rehabilitation and then for the
expansion of exports of the manufacturing sector (US$146 million or 17 percent); three projects
helped finance energy development (US$150 million or 17 percent); five projects in the transport
sector focused on reconstruction and rehabilitation activities. including training and manpower
development in the railways subsector and development and manace of highways (US$150
million or 17 percent); two urban development projects are helping increase the supply of low-
cost housing and related services in the county's major urban and economic centers (US$123
million or 14 percent); five projects supported forestry and the reorientation of agricultural
services towazd communal areas (US$101 million or 12 percent); family health projects are
supporting the expansion of population and basic health services (US$35 million or 4 percent);
and our first structural adjustment operation (which is supported by a Bank loan and an IDA
credit totalling US$175 milion or 20 percent) will provide BOP support for the Government's
djustment program-
122.        In fiscal year 1992, the Structural Adjustment operation has been approved and
an Emergency Drought Recovery Credit is planned. In fiscal year 1993, the Bank plans to
approve loans for Urban Transportation and Power Distribution.
123.        IFC's first investment In Zimbabwe was in 1981 in the Wankie Colliery Compnmy
Ltd., primarily to help finance a project for producing coal for the nearby thermal power station.
This was a loan of US$23 milion, of which US$12 million was for IFC's own account and
US$11 million for commercial bank participation. In 1984, IFC invested US$2 million in UDC
Ltd. (a finance company) to assist in the expansion of the company's capital base and In the
localization of ownership. A follow-up loan of US$10 million to UDC Ltd. was approved in July
1988 for the purpose of on-lending to the private sector. In 1986, IEFC made an investment of
US$5 million (US$4 million loan and the balance as equity) in Crest Breeders International Ltd.
to support the expansion of an Integrated poultry operation for the domestic and export markets.
During fiscal year 1990, a US$8 million line of credit was approved for Scotfin for on-lending
to small- and medium-scale businesses in transport and manufactring to finance imports of
capital equpment. It was followed by five lines of credit totaling US$130 million for relending
through merchant banks f^r export oriented projects. During the last financial year, ended June
1991, five investments were made comprising a US$2 million loan to TA Trading/Cresta Lodge
to develop a selected services hotel in Harare; a US$7 million loan to National Blankets Ltd. to
expand blanket production; a US$2 million equity investment in the Venture Capital Company
of Zimbabwe Ltd.; a US$2 million equity investment in the First Merchant Bank; and a US$5
million loan to Zimbabwe Spinners and Weavers Ltd. to expand production. Since June 1991,
27



two fuiher IFC bIvestments have been approved: a US$8 million loan for the expansion and
eubihmnt of th Mes Rotd I HaRae, and a US$17 milion loan (with partic   to
provid a further US$16 million) for the constuction of a 200 km petoleum ppeline from
Feruka to HUrar.
124.        Th   are two generic problems in the disbrmn  for Zimbabwes ptoject.
lbo first one is a gal weakness in the Accounant General's Aid Accounting Office. AM
donor money flows trugh this office and aUl withdrawals must pass here for approv.
Procesing  banded maulyby afewaccountats. ComputeizatlonhasnotbeenImplemented
yeL The head of the Aid Accoutg office has beon in Washington for disbursement traig
and has sbsequently orgnized trainng in  ae. His office has the skills and knowledge to
providei           assistance to Implemeng agencies but they ae oveworkod and cannot
syst ically provide the upport needed in Specia Account operations and itraonal trade
prAtlc'Is.
125.         bhe second problem comes from the role the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (tBZ)
pkys in dd 9Special Accunts (SA). Vitualy all SA payments must be handled by the
RBZ beu  all SAs are in the name of the RBZ. They claim it is in accrdae with the law.
With the proliration of projects and acuns, the RBZ Is not equipped to provide the kind of
servces provied by commeril bans to their cliens. May impl g agenes would
raher not he an SA ta to ded with the RWZ. It is simply more trouble to go to the RBZ for
a payment ta to ask Word Bak HQ to pay.
126.        In most odtr counies, i    enting agencies are alowed to opera  their own
SA, which peed project impleaon. Our poston is that RBZ and MFBPD should allow
prllra ements in our projects.
28



127.         Mem Ju cation for this operation Is explained in thie text of the Memodum
of the Preide   Briefly, the fiani justfication for this Credit is to help close the etea
paymets gap that bas aista bause of droughts lated damages sustained by Zimbabwe. By
offeig  a Crdit on IDA lending trm, the county will be able to close this gap In a way that
is _ablo ove the longer-tem  Ihe main econmic jusffication of the Credit is that the
dwrt- and mdu tm viabilty of tie entire agriutue sector, which supports the
ovwheing mjority of the popultDn, is at risk as a result of the drought. Tn  Credt will
finance the governent's program to restore the sector's viability. Due to the emegency
I  0 - - of the operation, an explicit cost-bnefit analysis would be impossible and is not
reuired under OD 8.50.
G. ACIX  PLAN
128.          h g     m    acton plan is fuly outlined in its Letter of Emergy Drougt
Policy (LEDP), whi  is attached. Perman  wfll be measured against the timetables stated
in the LEDP and implW by the annual planting cycle. IDA will send a first review mission
win four months of the date of Credit effetveness to evaluate the overall status of progm
29



June 2, 1992
GOVRNMEmr OF ZSiMWw
LITTER OF ENERGENCY DROUGHT POLICY
Mr L. Preston
President
The World Bank
1818 H street
Washington DC 20433
Dear Mr Prestons
1.    Zimbabwe is experiencing a catastrophic drought, which has come after
poor rainfall and a disappointing harvest last year too. The failure of
the 1991/92 rainy season - with precipitation measuring less than 50
percent of normal in most areas -- has lead to an almost complete crop
failure in most of the country. This drought now threatens the country's
population and eonomy.
2.   As at the end of April, national maize production was forecasted to
be only 362,000 tons, less than 20 percent of the average for 1988-1990.
Shortages of food have already become evident and food consumption is now
being reduced substantially. The situation is considered desperate in much
of Masvingo, Matabeleland and Nanicaland Provinces in particular. About 4
million people are now registered to receive food rations under the Food-
for-Work (11W) Programme, and 704,000 children are currently in need of
upplementary feeding. 2.7 million tons of food imports are needed.
3.    The drought has also devastated the agricultural assets of small-
b-alder and commercial farmers, and it is estimated that about one third of
the national herd is likely to die in the coming months due to inadequate
pastures and water shortages. The reduced production of cash crops is
significantly reducing the demand for labor throughout the agricultural
sector and this is further limiting the incomes and purchasing power of
households which are increasingly reliant on market purchases for food.
Moreover, the official prices of all major foodstuffs, except maize, have
been inereased substantially, and the consumer price of maize has risen
dramatically in the informal market. The drought has also caused a
precipitous decline in access to safe water for both rural and urban areas.
4.   The lack of inputs from the agricultural sector, the rationing of
water and the likelihood of electricity outages (due to reduced hydro power
generating capacity) are also reducing output and employment throughout the
manufacturing, mining and service sectors. Some population movements from
rural to urban areas have occurred, and there are fears that large numbers
of displaced people could place an even greater strain on the already
overburdened urban infrastructure and services.
5.    The macroeonomic implications of this crisis and the risks to the
ongoing process of structural adjustment are also substantial, due to the
deleterious effects on the Government's efforts to reduce the budget
deficit and to improve the balance of payments. Economic growth this year
will be substantially negative as a result of the drought, despite the
macro- conomic adjustment measures already taken by the Government.
ReSsonse to the Drouoht.
6.   The President has declared the drought a "national disaster" and has
convened the National Civil Protection Coordination Committee, chaired by
the Vice President. A Drought Relief Task Force has also been established.
The hovernment has designed a comprehensive US$1043.5 million programme of
drought relief and recovery, as set out in this Letter of Emergency Drought
30



Policy. We are now seeking external assistance to help to finance this
programme.
7.    The largest component of our programme is the purchase of food
supplies, amounting to approximately US$453.6 million (at Durban landed
prices) over the period March 1992 to August 1993. Total food import
requirements are estimated by the Government and the Food and Agriculture
Organization (PAO) to be as followes maize 1,700,000 tons, wheat 380,000
tons, sugar 360,000 tons, oilseeds 200,000 tons, rice lS,000 tons, edible
pulses 42,000 tons, and milk powder 4,000 tons. Some of these additional
imports wlll be financed through increased donor assistance to Zimbabwe,
but the Government too will have to cover a considerable portion of the
total cost.
8.   The drought programme also includes five non-food components (costed
at a total amount of US$553.7 million):
(i) US$17.5 million for the expanded food for work (FFW) programme of rural
public works, US$10.4 million for other public works and US$21 million for
the supplementary feeding of children; and
(ii) US$217.2 million for drought-related railway and road transportation
needs;
(iii) US$263.2 million for the recovery of the agricultural sector,
consisting oft (a) financing the private sector distribution of seed,
fertilizer and crop chemicals to an estimated 800,000 most-affected
smallholder farmers, as well as tillage to an estimated 350,000 smallholder
farmers, and (b) foreign exchange requirements for other agricultural
consumables, vehicles, equipment, and spares;
(iv) US$58.3 million for emergency water supply rehabilitation and water
drilling;
(v) US$2.4 million to strengthen Zimbabwes short-term capacity to manage
the current disaster and the country's longer-term capacity to avoid and
respond to future potential crises.
9.   Food-for-Work Programme.  A drought relief programme was initiated in
1982 and is now administered by the Department of Social Welfare in the
Ministry of Labor, Manpower Planning and Social Welfare. The programme
began as a general, free food distribution programme, but it has since
shifted to being a community-based FFW programme in order to discourage
dependency of the rural population, target food distribution more
effectively to the most needy, and mobilize available labour for the
development of community infrastructure.
10.  A large number of households in the small-holder areas will rely on
the FMW programme as their primary source of income and consumption until
the 1992/93 crop is harvested in April/May 1993. As food shortages worsen
through the year, up to about 700,000 workers are expected to require
employment under the programme, in order to obtain food for nearly 5
million people (or over 65 percent of the rural population). With effect
from June 1, food wage payment for participation will be increased from 10
to 1S kilograms of maize per capita per month, or approximately 500 grams
per person per day. In addition to maize, 100 grams of dried meat or fish
per peron per day will be provided to complete the basic food wage ration.
Excluding local transport costs, the total cost of the food wage will be
approximately US$240.6 million for the next 14 months. These costs are
included in the total food costs indicated above. Donors will provide some
assistance in the procurement of food supplies, especially in the form of
grain.
11.  A major constraint on the effectiveness of the VFW programme in the
past has been the lack of reliable transport for food commodities. To
31



ensure the offective distribution of food supplies during the drought
emergency, the Government Is making an increased number of vehicles
available on a full-time basis for the FFW programme. The Government is
also hiring commercial transport to meet the additional vehicle
requirements. A preliminary estimate of the internal costs for moving
'about 800,000 tons of maize, dried meat and fish over a 14-month period is
approximately US$12.1 million.
12.  In the past, FFW projects have been used for a wide variety of
activitieos soil and water conservation, road maintenance, the construction
of shallow wells and small dams, cattle dip tanks, bridges, schools and
clinics. They are low-input, labor-intensive works, approved by the
district development comittees with supervision undertaken by local
officials. To maximize the long-term development impact of the FFW
projects will require additional resources for material inputs, hand tools
and other equipment, additional training for skilled laborers, and
increased supervision. Approximately US$3.6 million will be required for
this.
13.   The envisioned expansion of the VFW under the current drought
emergency represents nearly a 5-fold increase over the programme's past
levels of employment and food distribution. The Department of Social
Welfare will be responsible for: (a) the overall coordination and planning
of the large-scale relief operation; (b) the development and management of
an information system to facilitate the targeted allocation of commodities;
(c) the planning and coordination of local transport needs; (d) the
technical supervision of projects; and (e) the development and management
of a financial accounting and payments system. The Department is being
strengthened accordingly to enable it to carry out its greatly expanded
role. In particular, at the central level an emergency coordination unit
is being established under the direction of the National Drought Relief
Cooordinator. At the provincial level, the provincial drought relief
officers will supervise field operations, and they will be provided with
vehicles, computers and related equipment to do so. Additional staff will
also be appointed at the provincial level to facilitate the management of
the programme. At the district level, additional staff (with motorbikes)
will be appointed to compile information for managing and monitoring work,
and to support the district social welfare officers.
14.  The following is a summary of the expected total non-food costs of
the V1W programmes
Local cost    Forex cost     Total cost
Z$ mn        US$ mn         US$ an
Local Transport               61.0                          12.1
Material Inputs                3.5           2.9             3.6
Vehicles and Uquipment                       0.8             0.8
Additional Field Staff         2.0                           0.4
Institutional support          0.6           0.5            0.6
Total                         67.1           4.2            17.5
15.  Public N2XM. The public works program is a labor intensive rural
development program whlch provides employment and is an integral part of
the Government's program to address the social dimensions of the economic
structural adjustment program. The program will be an important channel
for alleviating drought related hardships over the coming year as
Government is committed to voting additional funding to public works.
Projects are identified with the active participation of local communities
with technical supervision and materials funding provided through DDr. 858
projects have been identified in the following areas: water works; grazing
schees; roads; schools and clinics. This is expected to cost ZS$52.4 mn
32



(US$10.4 mn) and should provide employment to about 36,000 heads of
families.
16. Child Sunplementarv Feedsng Proaramme. Children under the age of
five are especially vulnerable to more rapid and severe nutritional
deterioration as a result of drought-related food shortages. As a result,
the Government will carry out a supplementary feeding programme, targeted
toward children under the age of five and lactating women, in conjunction
with the general food distribution under the FFW Programme. The Child
Supplementary Feeding (CSF) Programme will be administered by the
Department of Nutrition in the ministry of Health, building on experiences
gained under a similar supplementary feeding programme implemented between
1981 and 1986. The goal of the CSF Programme is to provide a single, daily
supplementary meal to children to provide one-third to one-half of their
total daily energy requirement.
17. It in expected that as many as 1.5 million children could require
assistance under this programme.  20,000 feeding centers will be
established to provide sufficient access to the supplementary food rations,
and they will be managed by village community health workers, with support
from ward coordinators and local women's groups. The cost of the food will
be approximately Z$93 million (US$19 million), while the cost of
transporting and storing the commodities in expected to reach Z$9.3 million
(US$1.9 million). The transport operations of the CSF Programme will be
coordinated with those of the FFM Programme.
18. The likely scarcity of food supplies, especially in the early stages
of the transport and relief operation, imply the need to establish
priorities in basic food allocations. Food allocations will be targeted to
the most needy geographical areas so that the limited supplies of food are
deployed to maxium effect. The Ministry of Health is initiating a
Commnunity-Based Growth Monitoring Programme to measure and weigh children
in the CS? Programme in order to identify other necessary nutrition
interventions. The government will also establish a technical secretariat
at the inlistry of Health to coordinate the overall management, information
and logistics of the CS8 Programme.
19.  Trang2=. Approximately 2 million tons of food will have to be
imported into Zimbabwe over the next 12 months, while the Southern African
rvgion as a wbole will be importing a total of 11.6 million tons.   The
Government is committed to assuring the expeditious importation and
distribution of all emergency food and supplies. For the transport of food
into Zimbabwe, ship and inland transport movements will be carefully
coordinated with other countries of the region to avoid bottlenecks and
conflicts. Zimbabwe expects to import at least 1.4 million tons of food
commoditieo via South African ports, principally Port Elizabeth and Vast
London. This planned movement of food through South Africa is within the
capacity of the National Railways of Zimbabwe. Plans lhave been initiated
to import substantial quantities of food through Beira too. For its
drought operations, the National Railways of Zimbabwe will require US$5
million in critical locomotive spares, and the Government has requested the
World Bank to reprogramme these funds from the existing Railways It
Project. The Government believes that there is sufficient external
transport Capacity for Zimbabwe's estimated food importation requirements.
But the importation will require a significant amount of moneys the
aggregate cost of external transportation from the ports for the relief and
recovery operation is estimated at $175 million over the next 12 months.
20. The Grain Marketing Board (GNB) is responsible for internal movements
of food from reception points to principal depots, as well as the direct
delivery by road from rail heads to mills and to the remainder of the GMB
depots. The total GRe road transport requirement is estimated at 570
million ton-km (350 million ton-km for cross-border traffic, and 220
33



million ton-km for long-haul internal traffic). Zimbabwe's existing fleet
is sufficient to handle this amount of haulage.
21. Local dLitribution is not the responsibility of the ONO, but rather
of commorcial millers, private traders, the Department of Social Welfare
for the PFW Programme and the Ninistry of Health for the CSF Programme.
The internal transportation of imported foodetuffo is estimated to require
capacity of nearly 160 million ton-km (equivalent to a distribution fleet
of about 575 vehicles). Approximately 30 percent of the total could
reasonably be expected to be carried in Government vehicles, leaving a need
to contract commercially for about 110 million ton-km (or nearly 400
vehicles). This is possible to achieve, and the Government is, therefore,
removing restrictions which prevent the Department of Social Welfare from
hiring commercial vehicles to transport relief commodities. The Government
is also making arrangements to ensure prompt payments for services rendered
by commercial haulers and farmers etc.
22. Transport costs vary widely by route and mode, but are expected to
average about Z$ S00 (US$100) per ton. The total cost to the GMB for the
importation and internal transportation of foodstuffs will be about 5$
1,000 million (US$200 million). In addition, local distribution will cost
an average of Z$ 37.50 per ton and Z$ 60 million (US$12 million) in
aggregate. Any substantial increase in carriage by road would lead to an
increase in the total costs and in the average costs per ton. Therefore,
maximum use is being made of rail in order to keep down overall costs. The
table below offers a summary of expected transport costs from the ports:
Total Cost                  Cost
millions)                  Per Ton
Zs         US$           Z$        US$
Long-Haul
Cross-border       819.4       163.9       372.50       74.50
Internal           203.0        40.6        93.00       18.50
'    Local                      60.0        12.0       37.50         ? . 5
Total                   12.4         217.2       s03.00 AQQ^£
23. The public and private transport fleets in Zimbabwe have suffered
from a shortage of foreign exchange for vehicle replacement. As a result,
both have large numbers of life-expired vehicles. It iL critical that both
the public and private fleets receive foreign exchange for critical
shortages of vehicle spares and equipment. Under the emergency drought
programme, the Government will provide a total of US$8 million, divided
equally between the private and public fleets, for immediate repairs and
for operations during the crisis period. To do this, the Goverment has
identified a positive list of eligible spare parts, in conformity with the
following principles: (a) parts purchased under the emergency programme
will be only for vehicles of 5 tons carrying capacity and above; (b) major
rehabilitation will not be done in this emergency context; and (c) the
selection of eligible parts for repairs will be on the basis of whether (i)
they would enable vehicles presently off the road to be put back into
working order quickly, and (ii) they consist of fast-moving parts and
consumables necesary to sustain operations over the emergency period.
24.  Auricullgral Recovery. The Government's agricultural recovery
programme is intended quickly to restore minimum food self-sufficiency in
the small-holder farming areas, as well as to rebuild the economic
viability of the agricultural sector bi general. The cornerstone of the
Governoent's programm- for agricultural recovery is the provision of a
package of essential planting inputs (widely known as "crop packs") for 80
percent of all smallholder farmers. However, the Government will also
address the problem of the anticipated loss by small-holder farmers of vast
34



numbers of draft animals, through assistarce with alternative methods of
preparing land for planting. To support Xommercial farmers, the Government
will ensure the availability of sufficient foreign exchange for the import
of inputs for fertiliser, for crop chemicals and for critical spares for
agricultural equipment and vehicles.
25. Specifically the agricultural recovery programme has the following
componentst
(a) ¢roo Packs, consisting of a set of agricultural inputs, to be
distributed to drought-affected farmers in the small-holder areas,
through commercial channels under a coupon voucher scheme. Coupon
books distributed to farmers will provide access to seed, fertiliser
and crop chemicals sufficient for 1 ha of food crop and 0.25 ha of
cash crops.
(b) land ureparation, comprising the import of spares for government
and privately-owned tractors, an extension programme to promote
minimum tillage practices to reduce strain on weakened draft oxen and
maximize area cultivated by tractor, and, under the coupon scheme,
the provision of access to land preparation from a range of sources.
(c) restocking of small livestock in Natural Regions IV and V.
(d) rgimbursable cotton inputs scheme, under which the Government
will assure that a sufficient crop is planted by providing inputs to
registered small-holder area cotton farmers, to be reimbursed upon
delivery of harvested cotton to the ginneries.
(e) imoorts of agricultural raw materials and aaricultural esares and
uinment to support production in both the small-holder and large-
scale commercial agricultural areas.
(f) pricina policies will be carefully evaluated to ensure that
sufficient r-oducer incentives exist to induce large plantings of
food and cash crops for the 1992/93 season.
26. The crop-packs will be provided to approximately 800,000 families in
the small-holder areas. Each crop pack will consist of seed, fertiliser
and crop chemical inputs sufficient to plant one ha of food grains and an
additional 0.25 ha of a cash crop. Crop pack distribution will be
facilitated via a system of coupon books for fertiliser, crop chemicals,
and seed. Able-bodied farmers will be expected to earn their crop packs
through participation in the FFW Programme, where it exists. The contents
of the crop packs will be tailored to some extent to reflect regional
differences in agricultural conditions. The three elements of the crop
packs -- seed, fertiliser and crop chemicals -- will be distributed through
normal commercial channels. AGRITEX will develop estimates of the number
of farmers and different crop packs required in each ward and district, and
will assist with local distribution at the ward level if necessary.
Sufficient quantities of seed will be procured from the private sector for
the 1992/93 planting needs of the commercial farmers and for the maize
requirements of the small-holder farmers. However, special arrangements
will be made to guarantee sufficient supplies of white sorghum, millet,
sunflower and groundnuts suitable for the small-holder areas for inclusion
in the crop packs. The Government will contract with private suppliers for
the purchase and distribution of fertiliser and agricultural chemicals for
the small-holder areas. Chemicals will be included in the crop packs for
two crops only: granular insecticide to protect maize from stem borer and a
chemical pack for cotton.
27. The local cost of the crop pack programme is estimated to be S$371.1
million (US$74.2 million), plus a foreign exchange component of US$37.1
million as follows:
35



Local Cost   Forex cost
ZS an       US$ mn
Seeds               53.3        4.5
Fertiliser         294.5       12.0
Crop Protection                20.6
Transportation      23.3
Total              371.1       37.1
28.  As a result of the drought, few of the draft animals remaining in the
small-holder areas will be strong enough to prepare land for the 1992/93
summer crop. Therefore, to ensure that an adequate area is planted, land
preparation by oxen will have to be supplemented by a range of other
measures. Tractors will be imported to augment the fleets of the private
sector and DDF. However, even the use of minimum tillage practices only
allow the cultivatation by tractor and oxen of about b00,000 ha, serving
only half of the 800,000 farmers targeted under the crop pack scheme.
Tractors will be deployed most heavily in those locations where their
productive impact will be greatest. In order to provide for farmers who
cannot or do not receive tillage services, those who participate in Food-
for-Work may choose between receiving tillage services or its equivalent ln
small livestock as their wage. The total cost of tractor import and land
cultivation is estimated to be US$59.4 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$42.9 million. Livestock restocking will cost about US$24.0
million, with a foreign exchange component of US$4.0 million.
29. The cost of providing assistance for crop inputs and land preparation
is approximately Z$600/ha in the small-holder areas. compared to the cost
of importing one ton of maize, currently over ZS1500, the cost of the
proposed recovery programme highly cost effective. Given the complications
and large expense of implementing cost recovery measures in a short-term
emergency context, the Government has determined that it will provide this
assistance to small-holder farmers in 1992/93 without charge.
30. The strategic importance of cotton production for the industrial
sector underlines the necessity of assisting farmers in the small-holder
areas, who produce half of the national production. Inputs provided as
grants under the crop pack programme will be sufficient to plant 50,000 ha
of cotton. Another 100,000 ha will need to be produced, but small-holder
farmers now lack the resources to purchase inputs for 1992/93.
Accordingly, the recovery programme will provide inputs -- on a
reimbursable basis -- for this additional cotton to be produced by the
100,000 registered cotton growers. The cost of seed, fertiliser,
chemicals, and interest charges will be deducted from deliveries of seed
cotton to the ginneries.  The aggregate cost of this programm  is Z$65.0
million, of which the foreign exchange cost is be US$5.7 million.
31. The Government recognizes that some additional measures will also be
needed to rebuild the economic viability of both the small-holder and the
commercial agricu' 'al sectors. Sufficient supplies of fertilizer will be
critical for this, _ad the Government will make an allocation of about
US$12 million (including US$2 million for triple-super-phosphate) for the
manufacture of compound fertilisers for the 1992/93 season. For the import
of crop protection chemicals and veterinary pharmaceuticals, a total amount
of US$31 million is needed. The Government has already allocated US$6.6
million for the first half-year and some donor support has also been
obtained. The Government will contribute the remaining US$24.4 million of
foreign exchange to permit the import of agricultural chemicals and
veterinary pharmaceuticals, including urgently needed livestock dips and
browse additives.
32. The Government also recognizes that the success of the recovery
programme for the 1992/93 season will depend critically on the agricultural
sector's ability to deploy its vehicles and equipment. In order to
implement the planned agricultural recovery, both the private and public
36



tractor fleets will require substantial rehabilitation. The Government's
programe, therefore, will provide foreign exchange of USS7 million for the
importation of agricultural spares by private farmers and machinery
contractors. In addition, up to US$5 million foreign exchange will be made
available for tf.L importation of intermediate goods (including specialist
and electronlc components) used in the domestic production of agricultural
machinery, irrigation and other equipment.
33. The Government also fully recognizes the importance of sufficiently
attractlve pro-planting producer prices to the production of adequate
volumes of foodorops in 1992/93. It is anticipated that the crop pack
programe will result in sufficient subsiLtence production from the mall-
holder areas next year. However, the Government is seeking not only to
avoid imports, but also to start to replenishing the nation's strategic
reserve of maize to the previous pre-drought target of about 500,000 tons.
Accordingly, the estimated area of maLze planted by the large-scale
commercial farmers will have to increase by 50 percent over the average
heotarage planted in recent years# that is from about 120,000 ha to 180,000
ha. Thie would produce an addltional 250,000 tons of deliveries from the
LSCS. Pricing polLcies for the 1992/93 summer crop will have a major
impact on Zimbabwe's recovery from the drought, and the Government is in
the process of determLning producer floor prices that will suffice to
ensure the necessary supply response in foodcrop production next year. The
0overmue t will announce floor prices for some crops, including maize, by
the end of July, allowLng farmers plenty of lead-time to plan their
cropping pattern.
Mu.ar  Tablo of Aarioultural Recovery Comnonent
Local Cost    Fores Cost    Total Cost
Z$ mn         US$ mn        USS mn
Crop packs                  371.13          37.12         111.34
Tillage program              83.08          24.17          40.79
Tractors and spares
DDE'                                    6.25           6.25
Private sector                        12.50           12.50
Small livestock             100.00           4.00          24.00
Cotton  cheme                36.50           5.70          13.00
veterinary chemicals                         3.88           3.88
Additional staff               0.50                         0.10
Fertilizers and chemicals                   36.40          36.40
8pares and intermedLates                    15.00          15.00
TOTAL                       591.21         145.02         263.26
34. WateM SMpplies. The goal of the Government's programme in the water
sector is to alleviate immediately the water shortages caused by the
drought and to provlde sufficient water on a short-term basis to last until
the next rains expected in late 1992. A long-term aim of the programme is
to develop drought mitigation measures such as the identification and
protectlon of reliable, drought-resistant water sources, the promotion of
water conservatLon methods, re-afforestation programmes in drought prone
regions, and the improvement of the early warning systems. In developing
its emergency programme, the Government has considered the long-term goals
for the water sector and lessons learned from the previous drought. The
latter include a realLsation of the importance of rehabilitating existing
water sources, building on existing institutional structures and keeping
long-term goals clearly in sight.
35. The National Action Committee (NAC), an inter-ministerial planning
committee chaired by the Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban
Development (NLGRUD) and consisting of representatives from eight
government agencies, has been given the responsibility for coordinating
37



drought relief efforts for the water sector. The NAC has drawn up a
programme which includes immediate, short-, and medium- term measures for
meeting the drought-related water requirements of rural and urban
populations.  This programme includes the following elementas
(a) Installation of handoumps by the District Development Fund (DDF)
on 700 existing boreholes for service to 175,000 people. The cost of
US$0.8 million includes a foreign exchange allocation for importation
of raw material (steel) for production of the local, standardized
bushpump;
(b) Im)orted sware oarts for rehabilitation of vehicles, rigs and
bowsers to be used by DDF and the Ministry of Energy, Water Resources
and Development (MEWED) for the emergency water supply programme.
Foreign exchange requirements total US$0.45 million;
(c) Rehabilitation of DiDed water suoclies. 450 DDF and MEWRD managed
piped-water schemes will be rehabilitated and fitted with new diesel
engines and motorized pumps. The cost of US$5.8 million includes
financing of required imported inputs. Some rehabilitation of MEWRD
piped supplies will also be undertaken if requiredt
(d) Rehabilitation of deel wells. DDF will deepen and rehabilitate
1900 dry or inoperative deep wells to provide service to 475,000
people. The cost of US$0.7 million includes financing of required
imported inputs;
(e) Rehabilitation of bore-holes, which will initially require 5
workover rigs for flushing and spare parts for faulty pumps. 375,000
people will benefit from this component covering up to 1,000
boreholes, at a cost of US$1.8 million;
(f) Hydraulic Fracturing of 900 dry or inoperative boreholes by MEWED
for service to 114,000 people. The cost of US$1.0 million includes
importation of 5 hydrofracturing units and training of work crews.
An additional 2000 boreholes require hydraulic fracturing, which can
be undertaken under contracts with the private sector at an estimated
cost of US$1.5 million, if such is deemed financially feasible;
(g) Drillina of new boreholes. 1,100 new boreholes to be drilled by
DDF and MEWED using existing and rehabilitated equipment to provide
service to 275,000 people. Required imported consumables will amount
to US$1.5 mn. An additional 1,000 boreholes will be drilled,
providing service to a further 250,000 people, on the acquisition of
8 new drilling rigs at a cost of USS10 mn including spares and
consnmables.  These rigs will be imported by the public sector and,
to the extent feasible, leased to private sector operators under
contract in priority areas;
(h) Geoohvsical survey. MEWRD/DDF-managed programme for borehole
siting. The cost of US$0.6 million includes foreign exchange
allocation for importation of resistivity survey equipment for
HEWRD/DDF. For purposes of the emergency programme this component
could include a private sector surveying programme for a portion or
all of the geophysical work, to be managed by government-appointed
consultants;
(j) urban emeraencv sucolies. Pipes, pumps and related equipment to
assure supplies to seriously affected towns, ie Chegutu, Shurugwi,
Masvingo, Gwanda and Bindura, through to the next rains. Total cost
is US$3.9 mn. Projects will be undertaken by the urban councils with
the assistance of private contractors; and
(k) Community Initiatives. Materials and supervisory support for
community involvement in this programme with assistance of Ministry
38



of Cosmmnity and Cooperatives Development (MCCD). A health education
will be carried in parallel and communities will be mobilized to
assist with rehabilitation and operation and maintenance activities.
This component will be implemented by extensLon agents with
assistance from NGOs (US$2.4 million).
36. In order to complete the above programme, the Government has
requested staffing assistance to offset current shortages. The following
indicates the staffing and technical assistance to be provided with donor
financing: support to the MAC for overall coordination of the programme;
and a water conservation study is being. Funding for consultants to
conduct technical, financial and environmental appraisals of critically
affected urban areas is also included. Piped supplies to a number of
municipalities, including Bulawayo and Mutare, will be accelerated to take
account of the drought. These schemes will be incorporated into revised
municipality investment programmes and as such will be eligible, subject to
further appraisal, for support under the World Bank funded Urban rs project
tentatively estimated at US$2S million.
37.  The water programme will be coordinated by the NAC. Actual
implementation will be the responsibility of the four main Government
agencies -- NLGRUD, DDF, HEWMD, and MOR -- on the basis of a geographically
prioritized and district-based plan being prepared by NAC. In summary, the
NAC will decide on strategy and monitor its implementation; the DDT shares
responsibility with MEWRD for borehole drilling, but is solely responsible
for borehole rehabilitation and deep-well construction and rehabilitation;
the MEWED is responsible for construction and maintenance of large urban
water supplies and for maintenance of piped water schemes; the
Environmental Health Department of the LioH is responsible for shallow well
protection and public health education; and the MIGRUD is responsible for
the implementation of the Urban rI Project, from which funds for urban
water supply will be reallocated.
Summayv table for Water Suu,lv comoonent
Local cost  Forex cost   Total cost
3$ mn       US$ mn        US$ mn
Handpump installation            0.71          0.63          0.77
Spare parts                                    0.4S          0.45
Piped supply rehabilitation      1.00          5.60          5.80
Deep well rehabilitation         3.26          0.08          0.73
Borehole rehabilitation          6.80          0.48          1.84
Hydraulic fracturing             1.90          2.12          2.50
Drilling of new boreholes       12.64         11.50         14.03
Geophysical survey               0.50          0.50          0.60
Community initiatives            1.92          2.02          2.40
Urban emergency supply           7.19          2.40          3.96
Urban water augmentation                      25300         2S.00
Technical assistance                           0.23          0.23
TOTAL                           36.S2         51.01         58.31
38. Institutional Strenothening. The Geovernment recognizes it needs to
strengthen the country's capacity to respond to emergencies. Even before
the drought, the following activities had commenced: (a) a food security
study, including pricing policy, agricultural parastatal reform and
strategic planning; (b) technical and engineering assistance to the NAC
(see para. 36); and (c) an emergency preparedness study, which includes
assessment of early warning systems and their information flows.
39. In response to the current drought, the following additional actions
have been identified and will be undertaken under the Government's
39



programmes (a) technical assistance to the Department of Social Welfare for
the management, monitoring, accounting, auditing, and training related to
the expanded FFW programme; (b) establishment of emergency agriculture
recovery task forces in the technical units of MLARR; (c) additional
resources to the NAC Coordinating Unit for the various water sector
agencies, to finance technical assistance with hydrogeology, back-up
support to national coordinator and disbursements; (d) a drought mitigation
study; (e) implementation of existing and ongoing studies of emergency
preparedness; (f) MOH planning, logistics and nutritional surveillance; (g)
a region-wide drought emergency relief progranme; (h) a national urban
water conservation strategy, including loss reduction; (i) a study and
action plan to incourage non-traditional, income generation activities in
drought-prone areas; and (j) a contingency plan for accelerated urban in-
migration. Total cost of the required studies, technical assistance and
training is put at US$2.4 million.
40. The table below summarizes the entire drought programme by
local/foreign costs.
Local cost      Forex cost    Total cost
ZS mn           Us$ mn         U0S mn
Nonfood requirements
Food for Work            67.1             4.2             17.5
Public works             44.0             1.6             10.4
Supplementary feeding  102.3                             21.0
Transportation         434.5           130.3            217.0
Agricultural recovery   591.2           145.2            263.3
Water supplies           36.5            51.0             58.3
Institutional capacity                   2.4               2.4
Subtotal                1275.6           334.7            589.9
Food imports                             453.6            453.6
TOTAL                   1275.6           788.3           1043.5
The Government expects to finance US$556.5 mn of this programme,
whilst other donors are expected to contribute US$300 on. In addition to
reallocations of existing Bank loans expected to amount to US$37 mn, an IDA
emergency drought recovery credit of US$150 mn is being requested to cover
the financing gap.
41. In conclusion, Mr President, I believe that that the Government has
put together a comprehensive and detailed plan to address the massive
problem of the drought now devastating our country. We are already
financing much of the program ourselves, but the scale of the challenge
requires us also to look towards the external community for additional
assistance. We are grateful for the past support of the World Bank group
and we would now like to request an IDA credit of US$150 million to ensure
that the balance of the financing needed is available.
Yours sincerely,
BTG Chidzero
Senior Minister
Finance, Economic Planning and Development
(signed copy on file)
40



