Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15193
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
EMFRGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2399-ZIM)
DECEMBER 20, 1995
Macro, Trade and Industry Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(at appraisal)
US$] =      Z$4.874
US$I =   SDRO.730
US$1 = NKK6.500
(at implementation)
US$1 =      Z$6.337
US$1 =   SDRO.721
US$1 = NKK6.780
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I - June 30
DEFINITIONS
Types of emergency assistance referred to in the text:
Relief                   Immediate assistance tendered with the aim of
preserving human and animal life.
Short Term Recovery      Assistance within a one year time frame with the
aim of restoring assets and their productivity.
Medium Term Recovery    Assistance beyond the one year time frame with the
aim of restoring assets and of rehabilitating
infrastructure.
Preparedness             Assistance in the form of training, contingency
planning, organizational restructuring with the aim
of improving the future management of
emergencies.
Mitigation               Assistance in the form of policies, procedures and
programs with the aim of reducing vulnerability to
the future emergency and its negative impact.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
CMB                    Cotton Marketing Board
CSFP                   Child Supplementary Feeding Program
DDF                    District Development Fund
DRP                    Drought Recovery Programme
DSW                    Department of Social Welfare
DWD                    Department of Water Development
EDRMP                  Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project
ESAP                   Economic Structural Adjustment Program
EWP                    Emergency Water Plan
FEWS                   Famine Early Warning System
FFW                    Food for Work Program
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
GMB                    Grain Marketing Board
GOZ                    Government of Zimbabwe
ICB                    Intemational Comp-titive Bidding
ICR                    Implementation Completion Report
IDA                    International Development Association
IFAD                   Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development
LEDP                   Letter of Emergency Drought Policy
MIC                    Ministry of Industry and Commerce
MLAWD                  Ministry of Lands, Agriculture and Water Development
MLGRUD                 Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban Development
MOF                    Ministry of Finance
MOHCW                  Ministry of Health and Child Welfare
MOP                    Memorandum of the President
MOTE                   Ministry of Transport and Energy
MPCNH                  Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing
MPSLSW                 Ministry of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare
NAC                    National Action Committee
NCPCC                  National Civil Protection Coordination Committee
NCU                    National Coordinating Unit
NEPC                   National Economic Planning Commission
NGO                    Non Govenmmental Organization
NCK                     Norwegian Kroner
NORAD                  Norwegian International Development Agency
NRZ                    National Railways of Zimbabwe
OD                     Operational Directive
O&M                    Operations and Maintenance
PCR                    Project Completion Report
PWP                    Public Works Programme
RBZ                    Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe
SAC                    Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL                    Structural Adjustment Loan
SADC                   Southern Africa Development Community
SDR                    Special Drawing Right
SIDA                   Swedish Intemational Development Agency
UNCHS                  United Nations Centre for Human Settlements
UNDP                   United Nations Development Program
UNICEF                 United Nations Children's Fund
USAID                  United States Agency for Intemational Development
VOC                    Vote of Credit
WB                     World Bank
WFP                    World Food Program
WHO                    World Health Organization
ZESA                   Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority
ZFU                    Zimbabwe Farmers Union
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornmance of their
Iofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.






ZIMBABWE
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 2399-ZIM)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ....................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................................................i
A. Introduction  ...................................................i
B. Project Objectives and Components ...................................................i
C. Implementation Experience and Results ................................................... ii
D. Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned  ...................................................  iii
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ....................................................1
A. Project Identity ....................................................I
B. Project Background ...................................................                                                                      lI
C. Project Objectives ....................................................2
D. Achievement of Project Objectives ....................................................3
E. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................................................:.4
F. Project Sustainability ..................................................9
G. Bank Performance .................................................                                                                        10
H. Borrower Performance .................................................1  I
1. Assessment of Outcome .................................................          .                                                        12
J. Future Operations .................................................                                                                       12
K. Key Lessons Learned .................................................                                                                     13



PART II    STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Project Timetable
Table 3:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and
Actual
Table 4:     Studies Included in Project
Table 5:     Project Costs
Table 6:     Project Financing
Table 7:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:     Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
A.           Aide Memoire (ICR Review Workshop)
B.           Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C.           Procurement and Disbursement Summary Tables
D.           List of Reports in the Project File
Map



ZIMBABWE
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT
[CREDIT 2399-ZIM]
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency Drought
Recovery and Mitigation Project in Zimbabwe for which Credit 2399-ZIM in the amount
of SDR 109.5 million (US$150 million equivalent) was approved on June 24, 1992 and
made effective on July 28, 1992.
2.    The Credit was closed on March 31, 1995 compared to the original closing date of
March 31, 1994. Final disbursement took place on November 16, 1995, at which time the
undisbursed balance of SDR 20,126,308.16 (US$ 27,914,435) was canceled.
Cofinancing was provided by the Government of Norway.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Stephen Brushett, Task Manager, AF1ZB of the
Southern Africa Department, Africa Region with additional contributions from Caesar
Chidawanyika, AFIZB, and Amanda Hammar, consultant. The ICR was reviewed by
Ataman Aksoy, Chief, Macro, Trade and Industry Division (AF 1 MI) and by Judith
Edstrom, Operations Adviser (AF IDR) of the Southern Africa Department, Africa
Region. Rutendo Nyoni (AF 1 ZB), Rita Attia (AF 1 MI) and Joyce Chinsen (AF 1 EI)
provided administrative and editorial support.
4.    Preparation of this ICR was started during the Bank's supervision mission of
September 1993 further to which an Issues Paper was prepared and reviewed in the Bank
in November 1993. The ICR is also based on the President's Report; the Credit
Agreement; implementation review reports and mission Aide Memoires; correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; documentation on the
1991/92 drought emergency and its aftermath prepared by the Borrower and by external
agencies. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR through preparing its
own completion report and through commenting on the draft ICR. A joint Government-
Bank workshop to review the ICR was held June 21, 1995 in Harare, Zimbabwe.



t



ZIMBABWE
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 2399-ZIM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Introduction (Sections A, B)
1.    The Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project (EDRMP) supported
by IDA Credit 2399 was the first emergency operation (in terms of OD 8.50) undertaken
by the Bank in Zimbabwe. The project was intended to respond to the extraordinary and
incremental foreign exchange requirements arising out of the failure of rains in the
1991/92 growing season (the worst drought experienced by Zimbabwe in this century)
which resulted in severe food and water shortages and which devastated the small scale
communal farming sector.
B. Project Objectives and Components (Section C)
2.    The project was defined as the Government's drought relief and recovery program
as articulated in a Letter of Emergency Drought Policy (LEDP) prepared with extensive
assistance from the Bank, agreed at credit negotiations and signed June 2, 1992. The
project's two principal objectives were the alleviation of human suffering and the
restoration of productive capacity. The objective of the IDA credit was to provide
Zimbabwe with timely financial resources to finance this program and thus to help
narrow the anticipated balance of payments gap resulting from incremental imports and
reduced exports.
3.    The total program cost was estimated as US$1,043.5 million of which US$788.3
million in foreign exchange over the period April 1992 to August 1993. The program
had six principal components, i.e.:
(a)   Importation of foodstuffs (US$453.6 million);
(b)   Agricultural recovery program (US$263.3 million);
(c)   Drought related truck and rail transport (US$217.2 million);
(d)   Emergency water supply rehabilitation (US$58.3 million);
(e)   Drought relief and supplementary feeding programs (US$48.9 million);
(f)   Institutional strengthening (US$2.4 million).



4.   In order to contribute effectively to Zimbabwe's financing needs, Bank support to
the project was designed to ensure rapid disbursement of the IDA Credit against an
agreed and broadly defined list of eligible imported goods and services using appropriate
procurement procedures, principally simplified international competitive bidding (ICB).
There were no special credit covenants or agreements.
5.    The project objectives were reasonable and the project was designed to address
Zimbabwe's drought recovery needs in an appropriate fashion. While the program was
generally well specified, the rehabilitation and recovery needs of the power sector had
been omitted and had subsequently to be included in the project.
C. Implementation Experience and Results (Sections D, E, F, G, H, I)
6.    The project was successful in so far as the Government's drought relief and
recovery program, funded inter alia by the IDA Credit, alleviated human suffering,
ensured adequate food supplies and contributed to rebuilding the small scale agricultural
sector which recorded a significantly increased harvest in 1992/93. A number of
elements in the recovery program, notably in the water sector, were not completed within
the original time frame but have subsequently been addressed. Achievement of
institutional development objectives was patchy. A number of possible organizational
and policy improvements were identified. In addition, awareness of the need to prepare
for, and properly manage drought, was heightened. However sustainability is rated as
uncertain because of a lack of follow through on a comprehensive policy and institutional
framework for drought preparedness and drought mitigation.
7.    An estimate of the actual total cost of the Government's program is put tentatively
at US$928.2 million for which financing of US$447.2 million is estimated to have come
from external sources. The cost of emergency food imports is estimated as US$470.0
million, the agricultural recovery program as US$87.6 million and the water program as
US$72.9 million. This suggests the LEDP estimate was on the high side, borne out by
the fact that in aggregate more foreign exchange was made available to finance drought
needs than could be readily absorbed, i.e. the US$23.5 million equivalent canceled out of
the IDA Credit and the very limited recourse to funds reallocated out of ongoing
IDA/IBRD operations. Government did experience shortfalls in local currency arising
out of the inadequacy of budgetary allocations in 1992/93 and to some extent in
subsequent years. The program was implemented in a timely manner where this was
driven by tight deadlines, i.e. delivery of imported food and preparation for the 1992/93
agricultural season. However some elements of the program were still being completed
in the early part of 1995.
8.    Only US$126.5 million equivalent of the US$150 million equivalent IDA credit
was disbursed. Of that only US$63.8 million was disbursed in the period of most critical
need up to June 1993, and only US$73.8 million was disbursed up to the projected
completion of the project in September 1993. A number of factors contributed to this
relatively disappointing disbursement performance. Project implementation was to be the



- . .
- III -
responsibility of established units in the relevant executing ministries. However their
capacity was demonstrably not sufficient to handle the extra volume of work.
Responsibility for project coordination was initially unclear and only resolved once the
project was underway. Procurement planning which should in retrospect have started at
the earliest opportunity only began after credit effectiveness was declared. Certain ad
hoc measures to address critical capacity constraints, taken together with a concerted
Bank/Borrower effort to accelerate procurement, were somewhat effective in improving
performance.
9.    The Bank performed commendably in assuring the quick processing of the Credit
in line with OD 8.50. A significant contribution was made to the preparation of the
Government's LEDP. Greater attention could have been given upfront to defining an
appropriate project implementation structure and to accelerated procurement planning.
The supervision effort was though substantial in quantitative terms and generally
effective. The Borrower performed very well in being able to deliver the critical
elements, especially food relief, of the program under tight time and resource constraints.
Greater use could have been made of external assistance, including private sector and
NGOs, and there may have been benefits derived from greater decentralization of
responsibility for implementation on the ground. Neither the Bank nor Borrower was
fully effective in delivering on the institutional development objectives of the project.
10.   Overall the project outcome is assessed satisfactory. Major relief objectives were
achieved and the emergency situation was responded to in a timely and effective fashion.
The recovery effort is only assessed as marginally satisfactory in the light of
implementation delays in the emergency water program and the underachievement of
targets for the agricultural recovery program. The institutional development component
is rated as unsatisfactory. Limited institutional capacity was built for future drought
management, and proposed policy and organizational improvements have still not been
followed through.
D. Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned (Section J, K)
11.   Project implementation experience demonstrated the usefulness of the accelerated
project processing framework as per OD 8.50. The project was though hampered by
limited implementation capacity, which was not fully addressed during project
implementation. In addition, experience suggests that laudable attempts to design a fast
disbursing project, through such instruments as a positive import list, can be undermined
by inadequate or tardy procurement planning and implementation.
12.   Whilst the project was designed to respond to a specific drought emergency, both
the Bank and Borrower have realized that drought is, and will continue to be, a recurring
phenomenon in Zimbabwe. This underlines the importance of more systematically
pursuing efforts at building drought management capacity, clarifying institutional roles
and developing a policy framework. Improved macroeconomic management and
forecasting and improved sector planning, especially in the agriculture, water and power



- iv-
sectors which remain vulnerable to periodic drought of varying intensity seem
particularly important. This could initially be supported by the Bank through economic
and sector work and agreed operations in the relevant sectors.
13.   A lesson for the future is to more clearly distinguish between relief and short term
recovery on the one hand and medium term recovery and mitigation with regard to
methods of delivery and timeframe. Speed and effectiveness of implementation (with the
benefit of external and extraordinary assistance) must take priority for the former,
whereas for the latter capacity building for the reduction of drought vulnerability should
be the focus. Drought and how it should be managed should feature more clearly in
future country assistance strategy and in Bank operations in Zimbabwe.



ZIMBABWE
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 2399-ZIM)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Identity
- Project Name:   Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project
- Credit No:      2399-ZIM
- RVP Unit:       Africa Region, Southern Africa Department
- Country:        Zimbabwe
- Sector:         Emergency
- Subsector:      Agricultural Recovery
B. Project Background
1.    The Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project (EDRMP) was
prepared by the Bank, using accelerated procedures provided for under Operational
Directive (OD) 8.50 on Emergency Recovery Assistance dated November 28, 1989, in
response to the Government's request for assistance in the face of the most severe
drought to afflict Zimbabwe (and Southern Africa generally) in this century. The major
likely consequences of the drought, arising out of the failure of the rains in the 1991/92
agricultural growing season, perceived at the time were: (a) food shortages which were
expected to persist from April 1992 through August 1993, such shortages being
exacerbated by unusually low levels of grain stocks on hand at the beginning of 1992; (b)
agricultural sector devastation, particularly in the small scale and communal subsectors,
given anticipated acute shortages of seed and other inputs and of draught power; (c)
reduced availability of safe water in both rural and urban areas with a potential negative
impact on individual health and, directly ar.d indirectly (through curtailed hydroelectricity
supply), on productive sector output; and (d) risk of accelerated urban in-migration as a
result of declining income opportunities in the rural areas related to the drought.
2.    EDRMP was prepared in the context of major economic transformation in
Zimbabwe, in the wake of the adoption in early 1991 of a Bank-supported Economic
Structural Adjustment Program (ESAP). The 1991/92 drought was seen as posing a
threat to the successful implementation of ESAP and as having the potential to derail the
policy reform process. From the outset the project was thus conceived with the objective
of increasing resource transfers to Zimbabwe, from the Bank group as well as from other
donors, to close the anticipated resource gap and to underpin continued economic reform.
At project appraisal, GDP was anticipated to fall 9 percent in 1992 rather than increase 5
percent as originally projected. The Government's fiscal deficit target of 6 percent of
GDP in 1992/93 was no longer viewed as feasible given anticipated drought relief
expenditures. Drought induced imports, coupled with the loss of expected exports, were
anticipated to increase the 1992 current account deficit to nearly 20 percent of GDP



-2 -
compared to 11 percent previously forecast. At the time of the February 1992
Consultative Group meeting the Bank's preliminary estimate was that additional drought
related external financing of US$400 million would be required in 1992.
C.   Project Objectives
3.    The Drought Relief and Recovery Program. EDRMP was defined as the
Government's drought relief and recovery program. The two principal objectives of the
program were: to address the risk of widespread famine in Zimbabwe; and to provide the
conditions under which the productive sectors could rebound quickly from the drought.
The Government's programn was articulated in a Letter of Emergency Drought Policy
(LEDP) which was prepared with extensive assistance from the Bank, agreed at
negotiations and signed June 2, 1992. The program had the following six principal
components, which covered immediate relief, short and medium term recovery as well as
drought mitigation and preparedness measures:
(a)   Importation of foodstuffs (US$453.6 million);
(b)   Agricultural recovery program including tillage services, seed and crop
chemical distribution, and importation of equipment and spares (US$263.2
million);
(c)   Drought related truck and rail transportation (US$217.2 million);
(d)   Emergency water supply rehabilitation (US$58.3 million);
(e)   Expanded programs of Food for Work (FFW), Public Works and Child
Supplementary Feeding (CSFP) (US$48.9 million); and
(f)   Institutional strengthening aimed at improving short term drought
management capability and longer term drought mitigation capacity
(US$2.4 million).
4.    Total program cost was estimated as US$1,043.5 million of which US$788.3
million in foreign exchange including US$334.7 million for non-food components. The
program was an ambitious one given the timeframe of April 1992 to August 1993. This
was however of necessity driven by the nature of the emergency and was an appropriate
response in the circumstances. Comprehensive as it was, not all the elements of the
drought recovery program were fully defined at project appraisal. No provision was
made for the power sector for which existing sources of finance, including the Bank's
ongoing and proposed lending operations, were expected to be sufficient to meet drought
related needs from the second half of 1992 onwards. This was addressed through the
addition of a power sector recovery component in September 1992 which provided for
incremental electricity imports (in the light of low water levels and limited generation
capacity at Kariba) and for rehabilitation of the main thermal power plant at Hwange (to
increase its reliability and power availability factor). This notwithstanding, the project's
objectives were reasonable and, subject to provisos discussed below, the project was
designed to meet Zimbabwe's drought recovery needs in an appropriate fashion.
5.    Bank Group Support. Bank Group support to the project was primarily through
the provision of an IDA credit of SDR 109.5 million (US$150 million). In designing the



credit, it was intended to give Government maximum flexibility in the use of IDA credit
proceeds. To this end 100% of the proceeds of the credit were to be used to finance items
on a broadly defined positive list of imported goods and services for drought recovery
and mitigation purposes (though not for food relief). Procurement arrangements were
intended to support quick disbursement - goods and services to the value of over
US$500,000 were to be procured on the basis of simplified international competitive
bidding (ICB); goods and services below this threshold were to be procured on the basis
of at least three quotations from at least two countries. Limited provision of up to
US$500,000 was made for direct contracting and in addition a special procedure was
included in the Credit agreement for the procurement of seeds.
6.   In line with OD 8.50, it was envisaged that the Bank's contribution would be
supplemented by reallocation of the proceeds of Bank loans under implementation. This
was anticipated to amount to US$37 million, i.e. US$25 million from Urban II (Loan
3079), US$7 million from Agriculture Credit and Export Promotion (Loan 3063) and
US$5 million from Railways II (Loan 3273). In addition and at the request of the
Government, the Bank agreed to administer grant funds of NKK7 million (US$1 million
equivalent) from the Government of Norway which were to be used to finance studies
and technical assistance required for drought mitigation under the program.
D.   Achievement of Project Objectives
7.    The project was successful in that the two major goals were achieved - the risk of
famine was averted, the recovery of the productive sectors of the economy was
facilitated. This finding is qualified by the fact that the achievements were more limited
in the case of medium term recovery and mitigation than in the case of relief and short
term recovery.
8.   Imports of foodstuffs, including maize, wheat, sugar, pulses and oils, in the
period to June 1993 were critical in averting famine - not a single death was reported as
directly attributable to drought related malnutrition. In agricultural recovery, an
innovative program for the distribution of seed, fertilizer and crop chemical packs to
communal and small scale farmers was mounted in short order. Despite the failure of the
tillage program to take off to any extent and despite the fact that the crop pack program
had to be scaled back because of budget and procurement induced delays, these inputs
helped promote a major turnaround in agricultural output and a consequent increase in
rural incomes from early 1993. The emergency water plan helped to meet most of the
immediate needs and more particularly enabled Government to accelerate its program for
augmenting water supplies, though more so in rural than in urban areas. The additional
program component for the power sector had a positive impact on availability and
reliability of electricity supply through both facilitating a higher level of power imports
and financing the rehabilitation of the Hwange power station. Achievement of
institutional development objectives was patchy and capacity building for future
drought management was very limited. The project did however help identify areas for
improvement in the management of the drought relief and agricultural recovery program
and also facilitated the introduction of new technologies in the water sector.



- 4 -
9.    A significant inflow of incremental external resources, including but not limited
to the IDA credit, was effected. This inflow assisted the economy to recover to a certain
extent the growth momentum that was impacted adversely by the drought. Real GDP
growth of about 2.4 percent was recorded in 1993 on the back of major increases in
agricultural output in the 1992/93 growing season and of a rebound in manufacturing and
services activity in the second half of the year. 1994 growth was 4.9 percent. As
anticipated the fiscal deficit rose in 1992/93 to an estimated outturn of 11.4 percent of
GDP but this was reduced to 7.8 percent in 1993/94. Drought induced imports of an
estimated US$400 million pushed the 1992 current account deficit to 11.4 percent of
GDP. The deficit narrowed in 1993 but was still 5.7 percent of GDP given the
stagnation in export levels. As these began to rebound in 1994 the deficit was cut further
to 4.5 percent of GDP. A project risk identified at appraisal was that Zimbabwe might
have faced difficulties in continuing to meet its external debt obligations. External debt
increased sharply in 1992 and the debt service to exports ratio reached 31.8 percent at the
end of that year and an estimated 31.2 percent at end 1993. Whilst this ratio is high,
Zimbabwe has still been able to service its debts and the problem is expected to ease as
export earnings rebound. A facilitating factor was that most drought assistance was on
grant or concessional loan terms.
E.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
10.   Project Processing. The project was prepared in short order in the light of the
emergency situation. Government requested Bank assistance on March 18, 1992 and a
combined preparation and appraisal mission was fielded March 23, 1992. The mission
completed its work within four weeks. Due to accelerated procedures for project
processing as per OD 8.50, negotiations for the IDA credit were completed before end
May and Board approval was obtained June 24, 1992. The IDA credit for EDRMP was
signed June 30, 1992 and became effective July 28, 1992. The Bank fielded a launch
mission beginning July 27, 1992 just prior to which (July 13-14, 1992) a procurement
planning workshop for executing agencies was organized with Bank support. This
mission was instrumental in focusing Government attention on how the proceeds on the
credit were to be used and in drawing up a timetable for key procurement actions.
11.   Project Implementation Overview. In line with the Government's program
outlined in the LEDP, EDRMP was expected to be completed by September 1993. The
program was generally implemented in a timely manner. However it was eventually
completed only in May 1995 due to delays in implementation of elements of the medium
term recovery program - even then the mitigation program was only partially completed.
Two particular factors delayed implementation of the recovery program: the
reprogramming of the emergency water plan to bring in the private sector for borehole
drilling; the introduction of a power sector component to finance inter alia spare parts for
the overhaul of Hwange power station. Both these elements however eventually
contributed, and still are contributing, significantly to the drought recovery process.
Implementation of the main components of the project is treated in turn below.



- 5 -
12.   Food. 2.5 million tons of foodstuffs were imported by June 1993. In general,
food was efficiently distributed internally though transportation bottlenecks at district
level did occur. Otherwise the performance of regional and domestic infrastructure
exceeded nearly all expectations, the capacity of said infrastructure to handle the
unprecedented level of food imports being cited as a major project risk at appraisal. This
was critical in averting the main risk of the drought - widespread famine. The food
importation effort facilitated the Government's drought relief and child supplementary
feeding programs which, supplemented by donor and NGO assistance, reached
respectively 5.9 million persons and 1 million children at their height in October/
November 1992. Government's PCR suggests an average 88 percent of those applying
for relief were fed - an impressive achievement given that at times this was equivalent to
50 percent of the total population of the country. There were though some downside
factors, i.e.: the average relief distribution per head worked out at about 5-7 kg per head
as opposed to the 15 kg per head objective because of transport and budget constraints; it
proved difficult to develop an effective targeting strategy such that much of the relief
effort benefited households other than the poorest; the FFW program was somewhat less
productive than expected as the planning of the component was deficient; additionally,
implementation was adversely affected by the fact that materials were not made available
in the required quantities in a timely fashion.
13.   Agricultural recovery. An estimated 920,000 farm households were assisted
with inputs ("crop packs") thus setting the stage for a significant recovery in agricultural
output in the 1992/93 season. This helped to offset another project risk cited at appraisal,
that urban rather than rural constituencies would receive a disproportionate share of
project financing and thus benefits. Food security was in effect restored in most areas of
the country as a result of the project which produced major increases in production and
yields over 1991/92. Nonetheless performance fell well short of target in that, because of
budget and procurement induced delays, the program could not be mounted on the scale
originally envisaged, i.e. crop packs were sufficient for 0.5 hectares per household, and
not 1.25 hectares as per the program. A successfully implemented cotton inputs scheme
helped about 100,000 individual farmers and over 1,000 groups obtain seeds and inputs
on a credit basis - the impact on cotton output in both 1992/93 and 1993/94 has been
significant and is expected to be sustainable. Much less successful were the livestock and
tillage programs - only 2 percent and 10 percent of the respective programs were
completed. Both were underfunded and late in starting and had a minimal impact.
Government's PCR suggests, for the tillage program at least, that greater success could
have been achieved if farmers had shared costs with the Government.
14.   Emergency Water. The project successfully addressed critical water shortages
and helped avert possible health risks from unavailability of potable water, especially in
the rural areas. Between June 1992 and June 1993, water point availability improved due
to a combination of emergency works and river and water table recharge from the
1992/93 rains. The project was successful in that most physical targets were met. 95
percent of the original borehole siting and drilling program and 80 percent of the well
deepening program were completed. Completion was delayed by slow procurement,
especially for the additional private sector drilling program so that the medium term



recovery effort was not achieved during the project's original time frame. Sustainability
depends on improved future contingency planning and on greater attention being paid to
water conservation strategies as well as on increased local participation in planning,
operating and maintaining water points.
15.   Power Sector. The project facilitated incremental importation of power, largely
from Zaire and Zambia, to address a larger than originally anticipated shortfall in supply
in 1992 and 1993. In addition, spare parts and equipment for the Hwange power station
were imported to increase the reliability and efficiency of this source of thermal power.
The results were strongly positive in that power availability improved over the course of
the project life and the costs to industry and commerce were minimized. These results
are expected to be sustainable given the strong performance of the parastatal Zimbabwe
Electricity Supply Authority (ZESA) which implemented a Performance Improvement
Program starting in 1994 and which continues to enjoy Bank support through an ongoing
lending operation, Power III (Loan 3639).
16.  Institutional Strengthening. Some progress was made on the program of studies
and technical assistance to be undertaken under the project. Technical assistance designed
to strengthen implementation capacity for relief and recovery was generally timely but its
effectiveness was somewhat reduced by confusion in the roles to be played by different
agencies of Government. The components aimed at drought mitigation and preparedness
lacked consistent and clear attention and there was very little follow up on the activities
which were completed. However the EDRMP experience has strengthened the
constituency within Government for greater strategic attention to be paid to drought
management in Zimbabwe.
17.   Project Costs and Financing. Project cost has been estimated as US$928.2
million, 12 percent less than projected at appraisal. Total cost of food imports is
estimated as US$470 million of which about US$244 million was financed from
Government's own resources and about US$226 million by donors. The agricultural
recovery program was estimated to have cost US$87.6 million compared to a projected
US$263.3 million which reflects the degree of underachievement of physical targets. The
emergency water plan was estimated to have cost US$72.9 million compared to a
projected US$58.3 million, reflecting some reprogramming and the cost of
implementation delays. Even with the addition of the power sector component, whose
estimated cost is US$62.2 million, total foreign financing of US$754 million (of which
US$326 million from domestic contribution) was more than adequate to meet the
incremental foreign exchange requirements of the program. Local cost financing was
expected to be provided entirely from domestic contribution. Such financing was not
always made available in a timely or sufficient manner during project implementation.
The local cost requirements of the program, and this was particularly the case for the
agricultural recovery component, were not fully reflected in the 1992/93 budget. The
deficiency was however made up in supplementary allocations and recourse to donor
funds. Further to a Government request, the Bank agreed to finance out of the IDA
credit, on an exceptional basis, up to US$8 million of the foreign exchange component of
locally produced fertilizer. In addition, the Bank agreed to finance a portion of the local



costs of the borehole drilling program. Notwithstanding these measures, the local costs
of the medium term elements of the recovery and mitigation program, especially with the
water sector and the livestock program, were also not fully budgeted for in the following
two fiscal years.
18.   Bank Financing. Only US$126.5 million equivalent disbursed out of the
US$150 million equivalent IDA credit. Given both that the credit proceeds were to be
allocated on a flexible basis, as needed by Government, against a positive list of imports
and given that total foreign financing for the project was more than adequate, this is not
necessarily surprising. It could be argued that a greater portion of credit proceeds could
have been disbursed if local costs had been made eligible at the outset - given that local
cost financing turned out to be a bigger constraint than foreign financing. IDA credit
proceeds were allocated in the following manner: Electricity imports US$27 million;
power sector spares US$20.2 million; petroleum products US$16.3 million; agricultural
recovery program US$32.2 million; emergency water program US$24.3 million; other
(FFW program support, truck and tractor spares) US$6.5 million.
19.   The Bank agreed to make available 20 percent of the proceeds of SAL/SAC I
(Loan 3434/Credit 2331), i.e. US$35 million equivalent, to help finance the purchase of
imported maize. Very limited recourse otherwise was made by the Government to funds
reallocated under existing projects supported by Bank loans or IDA credits. Only
US$995,000 was utilized for railway spares (Railways II Project, Loan 3273). The Bank
agreed to reallocate an amount of US$3.9 million from the Agricultural Credit and Export
Promotion Project (Loan 3063) for the purposes of financing stockfeed but this option
was never exercised by Government. Similarly no proposals were forthcoming for the
reallocation of Urban II Project (Loan 3079) loan proceeds for priority urban water
projects. The IDA administered Norwegian grant funds were not utilized at all, although
a number of activities for which the funding was earmnarked were either successfully
accomplished, i.e. a drought relief program review workshop; a retrospective analysis of
the agricultural recovery program, or started, i.e. an urban water conservation strategy
(see Table 4).
20.   Disbursement. Disbursement performance lagged behind expectations with only
US$63.8 million equivalent disbursed in fiscal year 1992/93 against a projected amount
of US$85 million. Only US$73.8 million had been disbursed by the original completion
date of the project, that is September 30, 1993 (the original credit closing date was March
31, 1994). These lags are accounted for by delays in the implementation of the medium
term recovery and mitigation components of the project that obliged Government to make
two separate requests for extension of the credit closing date in order to facilitate
disbursements. The Bank agreed to a six month extension of the credit closing date to
September 30, 1994 further to Government's request of November 5, 1993. A second
extension to March 31, 1995 was agreed on the basis of Government's request dated
September 2, 1994. The final disbursement was on November 16, 1995.
21.   Both Bank and Borrower were conscious of the need to address the above
referenced lags in disbursement through amendment to the disbursement provisions of the



-8-
credit agreement. A number of actions were in fact taken which helped somewhat to
accelerate disbursements during the life of the project, although, as discussed below,
weaknesses in procurement and project management arrangements were fundamentally at
the root cause of the lags. Firstly, the Bank agreed to increase the authorized allocation to
the Special Account from US$10 million to US$25 million. Secondly, the Bank agreed
to three separate requests from Government to amend the disbursement (and
procurement) schedules of the credit agreement. The amendment of September 23, 1992
added water sector and electricity sector items to the positive list and increased the ceiling
for negotiated direct procurements to US$5 million from US$0.5 million. The
amendment of May 19, 1993 further widened the provision for electricity imports and
raised the direct procurement ceiling again to US$10 million. The amendment of January
19, 1995 added a provision for the financing of 80 percent of local costs of water sector
drilling services and consultancy services.
22.   Procurement. A number of factors inherent in the procurement arrangements for
the project contributed to the relatively disappointing disbursement performance in spite
of the above mentioned measures. The design of the procurement arrangements as well
as the management of procurement under the IDA Credit do not appear to have been fully
consistent with the needs of quick disbursement. Whilst it may be acknowledged that
simplified ICB was chosen in an effort to accelerate the procurement process and
probably helped to contain costs of imports, the threshold of US$500,000 appears
relatively low compared to that agreed for previous and ongoing structural adjustment
operations in Zimbabwe. Also, relatively limited provision was made for special or
directly negotiated procurement in the credit agreement (though the ceiling for direct
contracting was subsequently increased) which could have been effective in accelerating
procurement for the short term recovery component of the project, especially in
agricultural recovery. Provision was made for retroactive financing of up to 20 percent of
the credit amount but this was only used to a limited extent (for electricity imports) due to
the difficulty in identifying any qualifying procurements.
23.   More critically perhaps were the capacity constraints which emerged in
Government procurement units which had been anticipated in project documents, but
which were not fully reflected in project design. Lack of timely procurement planning
and the delays in getting procurement done created a major initial difficulty which the
Bank and the Borrower seem to have been constantly struggling to overcome. Up until
July 1992, very little attention appears to have been given to procurement planning which
thus delayed the start of procurement and disbursement under the project. This process
needed to start, in retrospect, at a much earlier stage in the project cycle in order, with
regard to public sector procurements, to clearly identify and budget the cost of items to be
financed out of the credit. Nonetheless it should be acknowledged that a considerable
effort was then invested by both Bank and borrower staff to take the necessary steps for
procurement to go forward. Bank input of staff time (including 100 staffweeks of
supervision) was well in excess of what had been forecast and Government took a
number of albeit ad hoc measures to strengthen the capacity of existing procurement units
both of which responses were effective up to a point. In any event, limited experience
with Bank procurement procedures was a constraint experienced in some of these units



- 9 -
It could be thus argued that much stronger consideration should have been given upfront
to the employment of appropriately qualified and mandated procurement agents or similar
external assistance - and that the Bank should have tried harder to overcome any
misgivings Government may have had on this matter.
24.   Project Management. Implementation of the program, and of the particular
tasks associated with procurement and disbursement of the IDA credit, placed
considerable strains on Govermment capacity. A considerable number of Government
officials had, in addition to the regular tasks, to carry out drought related activities. The
government established a special Task Force of the National Civil Protection
Coordination Committee (NCPCC) under the chairmanship of the Vice President to
manage the relief and recovery effort. The Task Force was assisted by six technical
subcommittees and an advisory council with private sector representation. The Task
Force performed well, in relation to the implementation of the relief program, in spite of
the acute pressure of time and its limited capacity. It did not have direct responsibility for
the management of the IDA financing, nor generally for medium term recovery and
mitigation, which was left unclear at project preparation and negotiation. It was finally
resolved only on July 21, 1992 that the Ministry of Finance (MOF) would take on this
responsibility, one which it is not normally asked to fill nor indeed is it well equipped to
carry out. MOF nonetheless was instrumental in coordinating procurement through the
medium of weekly meetings with Bank and executing agency staff which helped
accelerate implementation. These meetings however tailed off towards the middle of
1993 after which there was no formal coordinating mechanism for management of project
implementation. Responsibility for the management of the institutional development
component, much of which was expected to be financed out of the IDA administered
Norwegian grant, was also unclear until it was established in December 1992 that this
was to be coordinated by the National Economic Planning Commission (NEPC). Whilst
a number of planned activities did eventually proceed, overall coordination of this
component was lacking and no funds were withdrawn from the grant. From this
experience, it could be argued that project management could have been improved if an
implementation unit of dedicated staff had been created, possibly under the Task Force,
to handle the IDA funded component at least through the short term recovery phase.
Alternatively, a more systematic approach to strengthening the capacity of existing
agencies, greater use of private sector and NGO capabilities and, where feasible,
decentralization of management of implementation to provincial or district level may
have paid greater dividends.
F.   Project Sustainability
25.   The project's primary aim was to respond effectively and in a timely fashion to a
specific emergency. However, as per OD 8.50, it was recognized in the design of the
project, and is reflected in the Government's LEDP which sets out the relief and recovery
program, that drought mitigation policies should be developed and requisite measures
implemented. Whilst such measures have not been pursued on a systematic basis across
the board, nor was the IDA administered Norwegian grant provided to this end utilized, a
start has been made in drawing lessons from the 1991/92 drought emergency and in



- 10-
applying this to institutional roles and the design of mitigation policies. This is
particularly true in regard to agricultural and social welfare policies and programs. In
both cases there is a particular enhanced awareness of the need for drought preparedness,
contingency planning and associated training with the emphasis on pushing responsibility
to the provincial and district level where possible. However the follow up to date on
conclusions and recommendations arising out of this work has been very limited. By the
admission of its own PCR, Government needs to diligently pursue this to ensure that the
necessary capacity building measures are taken, that institutional roles are clarified, and
that the design of future assistance strategies is strengthened. In addition, it will be
important that appropriate policies are put into effect and maintained in sectors likely to
be impacted negatively in future by periodic drought of varying intensity. This certainly
applies to the agricultural sector and specifically to grain stocks and early warning
systems in order that the impact of future droughts on food supplies is mitigated. The
absence or incompleteness of such policies is widely seen in retrospect to have
exacerbated the impact of the 1991/92 drought.
26.   Project sustainability also arises in the sense that considerable additions to
infrastructure, particularly in the water and power sectors, have been brought about. This
potentially will help mitigate the impact of any future droughts, but only if the
infrastructure is properly operated and maintained. The role of communities will become
more important in the future for the water sector. At the onset of the drought, water
shortages were exacerbated by the poor state of repair of many facilities. It is important
that the drought recovery investments be fully integrated into ongoing sector programs
and that the medium term funding for these programs is secured. The need for
appropriate policies on operations and maintenance in the power sector also applies on
the same grounds as well as on the management of the level of water in Lake Kariba for
hydroelectric power generation. This is being pursued in the context of the Bank's
ongoing lending to the power sector.
27.   On balance however sustainability is considered uncertain. There is a continued
absence an overarching institutional framework for drought preparedness and drought
management and the incompleteness of the application of lessons to strategy and policy
formulation in the various sectors. There is a stronger constituency than hitherto to
address these weaknesses, as evidenced by the discussion at the Bank-Government joint
ICR review workshop. There is also evidence at sectoral level, at least in power and
agricultural sectors, that national strategies and investment planning, are now factoring in
more systematically drought preparedness and mitigation. These developments however
will need to be underpinned by a more consistent economy wide approach to drought
management for the project to be considered sustainable.
G.   Bank Performance
28.   The Bank performed creditably in facilitating the quick processing of the project
and using the provisions of OD 8.50 to accelerate the various preparatory steps up to
Board approval. The project appears in the circumstances to have been well designed,
with some provisos, to respond to the emergency at hand and generally matched up well



- 11 -
with the need for flexibility in the use of IDA funds. Substantial input was made into the
preparation of the Government's LEDP outlining the program the project was intended to
support - this included assistance in the design of a highly innovative approach to
agricultural recovery. Procurement arrangements however do not appear to have been
fully compatible with the need for rapid disbursement of funds and the Bank should have
either anticipated, or else pressed Government harder, on solutions to implementation
problems that were likely to arise. The Bank did however provide very intensive support
to Government throughout project implementation which was facilitated by assigning
task management to the Zimbabwe Resident Mission. In addition there was intensive
involvement of specialist procurement staff which helped the process of training of key
Government staff in Bank procurement procedures both through formal workshops and
informal on-the-job training. Generally the Bank fitted well into the role of supporting
the efforts of the Government. Where it tried to go ahead of Government it was less
successful. An example of this was the program of studies under the Norwegian grant
where the Bank sought to take initial responsibility to accelerate the process. This
however appears to have resulted in a problem of ownership of the program which
adversely impacted implementation and delayed the benefit to be derived from the
studies. Though formal responsibility was vested as of December 1992 in the National
Economic Planning Commission (NEPC), ownership of the program was still weak and
this surely contributed to the lack of disbursement of the Norwegian funds and the limited
follow up to the studies that were undertaken.
H.   Borrower Performance
29.   The Borrower performed well with regard to the implementation of the program
which imposed tremendous pressure on the Government apparatus to deliver the relief
and recovery effort in a short time frame. Government ownership of the project, with the
exception noted in the paragraph above, was clear from the outset as the project was in
fact the Government's program. The necessary broad and high level commitment to the
program existed throughout. Whilst the overall organization and management of the
program was good, existing units and structures in the key executing agencies were not
up to managing all elements of the program in a timely fashion. Limited capacity and
lack of appropriate emergency procedures clearly delayed procurement, particularly that
financed out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit. Underfunding of some aspects of the
program, as set out in the LEDP, in the 1992/93 budget also hampered implementation.
However the Borrower was responsive to the need to strengthen coordination and
monitoring arrangements in the course of implementation and this helped keep delays
within reasonable limits. Performance could perhaps have been further improved if more
involved staff were dedicated to project implementation throughout rather than having to
balance this with their other responsibilities. However the approach to increasing
implementation capacity was more ad hoc than systematic. In future emergencies,
greater use from the outset of private sector and NGO capabilities might help reduce the
implementation bottleneck. One aspect of the program however was not given systematic
attention - institution building for longer term drought preparedness and drought
mitigation measures. For the benefits of project to be sustainable, the Borrower will need
to continue to address this matter and to build on the results of the response to the



- 12-
1991/92 drought. Government's own PCR clearly recognizes a number of weaknesses in
the response to the drought and discusses the type of institutional structures and
preparedness and mitigation programs and policies that might be put in place.
I.    Assessment of Outcome
30.   In overall terms, the outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. The project
largely achieved its objectives of alleviating suffering and restoring productive capacity
in the aftermath of the 1991/92 drought. This achievement was in the face of very tight
time constraints, limited institutional capacity and imperfectly defined policy and
institutional framework for drought management. In terms of addressing the specific
components of the drought, the project was fully satisfactory with regard to the food
relief and associated transportation component which, quite rightly, was given highest
priority by Government and donors. The recovery elements of the program, both short
term and the medium term, are assessed as only marginally satisfactory (with the
exception of power, which was fully satisfactory) as the project objectives were only
partially achieved during the project timeframe - the physical shortfall on the agricultural
recovery program is most striking here. The institutional strengthening component,
which did have some short term elements but was mostly oriented towards longer term
mitigation, is assessed as unsatisfactory. In assessing the contribution of the IDA credit
separately, the outcome is marginally satisfactory given the objective of providing
Zimbabwe with incremental financial resources was achieved. This assistance was not
however as timely as it should have been, or needed to be, and its beneficial impact was
thus much less than anticipated.
J.   Future Operations
31.   There is no plan for the future operation of the project as the project was explicitly
designed to address the consequences of the 1991/92 drought over the period April 1992
to August 1993. However current and future operations of the Bank in Zimbabwe, as
reflected in the Country Assistance Strategy, will need to demonstrate, where applicable,
how the process of continued improvement in drought management capability will be
supported. Operations in the urban and rural infrastructure sectors, and in the power and
agriculture sectors will all contribute in this fashion. With regard to the water sector, the
Bank will agree with Government on the monitoring indicators that will be used to
measure future performance in the rural water subsector with a particular view to
ensuring: the integration of facilities provided under the project into the core national
program; the adoption of an appropriate policy and institutional framework; adequate
allocations for operation and maintenance expenditure; and enhancement of the role of
beneficiary communities in the management of water supplies. These concerns should be
integrated into any future support of the Bank Group for water resources management in
Zimbabwe, which may now become a higher priority given the continuation of dry
conditions in the country since the 1991/92 drought.



- 13-
K.   Key Lessons Leamed
32. The principal lessons learned from the EDRMP operation are given below in
summary form:
(a)   From the viewpoint of the Bank, OD 8.50 provided a very useful
framework for accelerated project processing in an emergency situation.
EDRMP suffered though, as have many Bank/IDA funded emergency
projects, from slow disbursements and delays in implementation which
detracted from what was in many respects a successful project.
Implementation arrangements would ideally need to be more carefully
designed and fully articulated at the outset to provide additional
implementation capacity, in particular in the area of procurement planning
and monitoring, for the duration of the emergency. This could be achieved
by the use of procurement agents or other short term external assistance,
which could come from official sources or alternatively the private and
NGO sectors. Such measures would need to be accompanied by
developing Government's own emergency procedures;
(b)   EDRMP experience illustrates the difficulty of keeping the relief and short
term recovery effort and the medium term recovery and long term
mitigation process in reasonable balance during implementation. It is
suggested that these elements need to be more clearly distinguished and
that the relief and short term recovery effort be managed, as proposed
above, on an extraordinary basis. The medium term recovery and
mitigation effort would seek to emphasize the importance of institution
building but would need to provide a more realistic time frame for such
activities to be completed. EDRMP experience also suggests that more
thought and attention has to be given to thinking through the mitigation
strategy, if not possible at the outset, then at least at some defined point
during project implementation;
(c)   EDRMP experience suggests limits to the usefulness of the exclusive use
of a positive list of eligible imports approach to the provision of IDA
assistance in emergencies, particular where local financing shortages may
be important and where local products and suppliers are available. The
eligible list of imports approach also created expectations about project
implementation and credit disbursement that were not realistically
achievable, given the procurement arrangements and the constraints
experienced in project management. Any future emergency operations
would need to define upfront how and when goods and services were
expected to be procured;
(d)   Both Government and Bank were able to garner considerable experience
from the project from which to fine tune their future approaches. It is thus
important on both sides that the drought is not considered an isolated event



- 14 -
(particularly as drought is a recurring phenomenon) but that mechanisms
are set in train to take on board lessons learnt and translate into effective
future action. To this end Government should be encouraged to develop
appropriate policy framework for drought preparedness and mitigation.
The Bank could assist through targeted economic and sector work and
selected lending operations.



ZIMBABWE
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 2399-ZIM)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES



Table 1 Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives  Substantial  Partial     Negligible   Notapplicable
(10          ("I)         (1/)            )
Macro policies                 n            nn
U            U            Li            U
Sector policies
Li           U            U             U
Financial objectives           n            n            n              n
U            ULi          U             U
Institutional development       n           n                           n
I/
i            Li           Li            U
Physical objectives            n            n             n             n
11           U            U             U
Poverty reduction              n            n            n              n
w/
11           U            U             U
Gender issues                  n            n            n              n
11           U            U             U
Other social objectives        n            n            n              n
-V
Li           U            U             U
Environmental objectives       n            nn
Li           U            U             U
Public sector management        n           n            n        
v
Li           Li           U             U
Private sector development     n            n            n              n
Li           Li           U             U
Other (specify                 n            n            n              n
Li          Li            U             U



B. Project sustainability    Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
(/)                (1)                 (/)
n                  n                   n
U                  UiL
Highly
C. Bank performarice        satisacltor         Satisfactory        Deficient
(8/)               (/)                 (1/)
Identification                                                        n
Preparation assistance         n                  n                   n
./
Appraisal                      n                   n 
/
Supervision                    n                  n 
UJ                 U                   U
Highly
D. Borrowerp1erformance     satisfactor         Satisfactory        Deficien
Preparation)                               n/                 n/
Preparationnnn
Implementation                 nn
Covenant compliance            n                  n                   n
V/
U                  u                   U
Operation (if applicable)      n                  n                   n
U                  U                   U



Highly                                              Highly
E. Assessmet of outcome'              satisfactry    Satisfactory    Unsafisfactr           unsatisfactor
n               n                n                  n
U               u                U                  U
lRelief                                    Highly Satisfactory
Short term recovery                       Marginally Satisfactory
Medium term recovery                      Marginally Satisfactory
Drought migation and preparedness         Unsatisfactory



Table 2: Project Timetable
Date actual
Steps in Project Cycle                   Date planned                  latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)   NA
Preparation                                  March-April 1992
Appraisal                                    March - April 1992
Negotiations                                 May 26-28, 1992
Letter of emergency drought policy           June 2, 1992
Board presentation                           June 24, 1992
Signing                                      June 30, 1992
Effectiveness                                July 10, 1992                 July 28, 1992
Project Completion                           September 30, 1993            May 1995
Credit Closing                               March 31, 1994                March 31, 1995
Table 3: Loan/Credit Disbursements. Cumulative Estimated Actual
(US$ millions)
FY93   FY94   FY95                       FY96
Appraisal estimate                            85.00       150.00    150.00            150.00
Actual                                        63.80       109.94    120.90             126.5
Actual as %  of estimate                      73.06        73.29       80.60          84.30
Date of final disbursement                                                       November 16,
1995



Table 4: Studies and Technical Assistance included in Project
Study/Technical Assistance  Purpose as defined at                 Status                                      Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
Food Security Project       Reform of pricing policy, agricultural    Successfully completed with USAID assistance.   Study had major impact on agricultural
parastatal reform and strategic planning                                         sector reform and is supportive of
drought mitigation.
Technical and Engineering    Support to institutional capacity to  Drought related assistance completed though  Assistance helped accelerate procurement
Assistance to NAC           manage drought related needs in rural    NORAD support for the sector is ongoing.  in emergency water and other
water sector                                                                     components of the Government's
program.
Emergency preparedness      Assessment of early warning systems   Successfully completed with USAID assistance.   Famine Early Warning System (FEWS)
study                       and information flows                                                             has helped increase Government capacity
to respond to drought relief needs.
Technical assistance to      Support to institutional capacity for  Planner was provided with NORAD assistance    Assistance helped increase capacity at a
Department of Social Welfare   management, monitoring, auditing and    and USAID helped fund short term assistance  critical juncture. Proposals for long term
accounting related to Food for Work  for monitoring.                             strengthening of drought relief program
Program.                                                                         developed at April 1993 workshop but
not yet acted upon.
Assistance to the NAC for    Provide training to operatives in use of   Program mounted in 1992/93 for DDF and  New technology has gained acceptance
hydrogeology technology     this technology in rural water sector.  DWD operatives with SIDA assistance.      in Zimbabwe. Effectiveness in practice
has been limited by inadequate O&M
provision.
Drought mitigation study    Design sectoral strategies to minimize    Government decided not to proceed although  A number of retrospective study
drought impact on productivity,      funding identified under IDA administered   conclusions and recommendations are
incomes and services                 Norwegian grant. Retrospective studies of   being acted upon.
agricultural and water programs undertaken
instead. Agricultural report submitted October
1993.



Study/Technical Assistance  Purpose as defined at               Status                                     Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
Implementation of disaster  Follow up to recommendations of     No action although funding identified under  N/A
management strategies       earlier studies including contingency  IDA administered Norwegian grant.
planning for future disasters.      Government however now intends to review
arrangements and commence capacity building
program in 1995.
Assistance to the Ministry of   Support to institutional capacity for  Successfully completed with UNICEF  Options for medium term reinforcement
Health                      planning, logistics and nutritional  assistance.                                of the program are to be reviewed.
surveillance for child supplementary
feeding program.
Drought emergency relief    Logistical support and enhancement of   Successfully completed with USAID assistance.   Support to transport operations
program                     early warning systems on region wide                                            coordination during 1992/93 was critical
basis.                                                                         to the successful food importation
program.
National urban water        Develop strategy and a program for loss  Ongoing with funding identified under IDA  Limited impact thus far. Awareness of
conservation strategy       reduction including training workshops.  administered Norwegian grant. Program  need for improved water management
guidelines developed and initial workshops held  has been raised. Government will seek
but program implementation has been delayed.   funds to enable program to continue.
Bulawayo case study completed with ODA
assistance.
Contingency study of urban  Analysis of prospective impact and  Study completed October 1992 with UNCHS     No follow up. Some recommendations
in-migration                response to accelerate urban in-    assistance.                                likely to be pursued under disaster
migration.                                                                     management program review.
Assistance to implementation   Provide a fund to finance short-term  Government determined extra assistance was not  N/A
of agricultural recovery    hiring of local consultants to augment    needed.
program                     implementation capacity.
Study on non-traditional    Study and action plan for encouraging    No study was undertaken. However such  N/A
income generating activities    non-traditional income generation  activities are to be supported through a newly
activities in drought prone areas.  approved IFAD project.



Table 5: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                Actual/latest estimate
Local      Foreign     Total    Local Costs   Foreign      Total
Costs      Costs                               Costs
Item                             (Z$mn)    (US$mn)   (US$mn)    (Z$mn)    (US$mn)   (US$mn)
1. Food Imports                         -       453.6      453.6            -      470.0'      470.0
2. Drought relief                    67.1         4.2        17.5       23.52        1.62        4.72
3. Public Works                      44.0         1.6        10.4       36.93           -        5.83
4. Child Supplementary Feeding      102.3           -        21.0       78.44       30.94       43.84
5. Transportation                   434.5       130.3      217.0       562.55       90.9I      179.7
6. Agricultural Recovery            591.2       145.2       263.3      211 .J6      54.3'       87.66
7. Emergency Water                   36.5        51.0        58.3      153. 7       48.67       72.97
8. Institutional Capacity Building      -         2.4         2.4           -        1.58        1.58
9. Power Sector                       NA         NA          NA         40.08       55.98       62/28
Total                              1,275.6      788.3     1,043.5      1,106.0      753.7      928.2
l   RBZ estimate
2   DSW and Bank estimate
3   -4CPCC report
4   IUNICEF and MOHCW estimate (inc. UNICEF direct contributions of US$2,548 million)
5   WFP estimate average Z$225/ton local transport
6   From Working Paper (Caesar Chidawanyika)
7   From Working Paper (Amanda Hammar)
B   Bank estimate
NB: Appraisal ex rate USSI = ZS4.870
Estimate ex rate (1994/95) US$ = Z$6.337



Table 6: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                 Actual/latest estimate
Z$mn             (IJS$mn)            Z$mn             (US$mn)
Local      Foreign      Total     Local Costs    Foreign      Total
Costs       Costs                                 Costs
Source
IDA- EDRMP                                        150.0       150.0         28.1         121.1      126.5
IBRD - Existing loan portfolio            -        37.0        37.0            -           1.0        1.0
IBRD/1DA - SAL/SAC I                      -           -           -                       35.0      35.0
Cofinancing institutions                  -         1.0         1.0                          -          -
Other extemal sources                     -       300.0       300.0        116.5'       270.71     289.11
Domestic contribution               1,275.6       301.5       556.5        961.4        325.9      476.6
Total                               1,275.6 |     788.3 |   1,043.5       1,106.0        753.7     928.2
1   Estimate based on NCPCC and other reports
NB: Appraisal ex rate US$1 = Z$4.870
Es.imate cx rate US$1 = Z$6.337



Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section   Covenant type        Present   Original         Revised          Description of Covenant          Comments
status    fulfillment date   fulfillment date
Credit       3.02      Procurement         C        Life of project    Life of project    Carry out procurement in      Complied
accordance with Schedule 3 unless
otherwise agreed
3.03     Institutional       CP        Life of project    Life of project    Maintain National Civil Protection   Committee was actually
Coordination Committee until     wound up in May 1993.
project completion.
3.04     Project             C         Life of project    Life of project    Maintain procurement units    Complied, but units were not
Implementation                                                  existing in project executing    generally fully effective
Arrangements                                                    agencies until project completion  without external assistance
3.05a    Monitoring/Review   C         11/92            9/92              Exchange views regularly on the  Complied, first supervision
project, the first such no later than    mission in September 1992
four months after credit
effectiveness
3.05b    Monitoring/Review   CP        11/92            9/92              Borrower to provide report before    Reports were prepared on
each such exchange of views      different components of the
program in varying degrees
of detail and regularity.
3.06     Accounts/Audit      CD        3/94 and 3/95    9/94 and 11/95    Maintain project accounts and    Complied with delay.
records and submit audit reports
within 9 months of the close of the
fiscal year
C Compliance
CP Partial Compliance
CD Compliance with delay



Table 8: Bank Resources. Staff Inputs
Stage of                              Planned                             Revised                              Actual
project cycle
Weeks             US$              Weeks              US$               Weeks              US$
Through appraisal                                                                       11.9              1,400               13.8            38,800
Appraisal-Board                                                                         47.4             20,700              50.0            136,900
Board-effectiveness                                                                      9.4                  -               12.8            34,200
Supervision                                          19.5           36,400              56.9             36,400              100.1           265,100
Completion                                           9.0            28,200               9.0             28,200               10.4            29,300
TOTAL                                               28.5            64,600             134.6             86,700              187.1           504,300



Table 9: Bank Resources. Missions
Pcrtbfrance Ratings
Specialized
Stage of                                 No. of    Days in                       staff skills
project cycle              Month/Year    persons        field                      represented
Implementation    Development            Types of problems
status         objectiv es
Through appraisal                         3-4/1992       8          20      Country Economist. Urbani Planner. Legal                 na               na         na
Counsel. Agricultural Economist, Transport
Specialist, Ilydrogeologist. Food Security
Specialist. Water Engineer. Health & Nutrition
Specialist
Appraisal through Board approval                na       na         na      na                                                       na               na         na
Board approval through                          na       na         na      na                                                       na               na         na
effectiveness
Supervision 1                             7-8/1992       5          iO      Country Economist. Food Security Specialist.             2                 1         Procurement, Disbursement,
Procurement Specialist, Agricultural Economist,                                      Project Manapement.
Rural Water Specialist                                                               Counterpart Financing
Supervision 11                             10/1992       5          10      Procurement Specialist, Agricultural Economist,           2                1         Procurement. Project
Rural Water Specialist                                                               Management, Counterpart
FIinancing
Supervision III                             2/1993       3          10      Procurement Specialist, Agricultural Economist.           2                2          Procurement. Studies
Rural Water Specialist
Supervision IV                            6-7/1993       3          10      Procurement Specialist, Agricultural Economist,          2                            Studies
Rural Water Specialist
Completion                                  9/1993       3          10      Procurement Specialist, Agricultural Economist,           2                2          na
I__________   I_________  Rural Water Specialist                          _                                I_
N.B.  (1)    6 formal missions were carried out including a combined preparation/appraisal, four supervisions and a completion mission.
(2)    Most project supervision was carried out by the Resident Mission from February 1993 through project completion workshop held in July 1995. This is not reflected in the above data.



Annex A
Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project
Implementation Completion Report/Project Completion Report Workshop
June 21, 1995 Harare Sheraton
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A workshop took place Wednesday June 21, 1995 at the Harare Sheraton to
discuss and exchange views on the findings and recommendations of the draft
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) prepared by the Bank and the draft Project
Completion Report (PCR) prepared by the Government of Zimbabwe for the Emergency
Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project (EDRMP). Copies of both documents had
been distributed to the relevant agencies in advance. The meeting xx as chaired jointly by
Mr. S. Brushett, Deputy Resident Representative of the World Bank in Harare and Task
Manager for EDRMP and by Mr. F.B. Simango, Deputy Director for Monitoring and
Evaluation, National Economic Planning Commission (NEPC). Ms. A. Hammar
facilitated the discussion on follow up action for the improvement of drought
management in Zimbabwe. A list of workshop participants is at Attachment I. The
workshop agenda is at Attachment 2.
2.    Mr. Brushett made the opening presentation from the point of view of the Bank.
He briefed participants on the differences between the PCR and the new style ICR which
had replaced it as of January 1994. The ICR was intended to be a forward looking
document laying strong emphasis on the application of lessons learned from project
experience in the continued operation of the project and like future operations. The two
fundamental considerations were project outcome - highly satisfactory, satisfactory,
unsatisfactory or highly unsatisfactory, and project sustainability - likely, unlikely or
uncertain. The Bank had reached some tentative conclusions which it was happy to
discuss in the workshop. Outcome had been rated satisfactory given that the fundamental
objectives of the project, which was the Government's drought recovery and mitigation
program dated June 1992, had been achieved. Sustainability was rated likely, though
there was room for arguing for a rating of uncertain given that follow through on the
institutional development component of the project had been patchy. Mr. Brushett
invited the workshop's views. A total of 15 participants completed Table 1: Summary of
Assessments. The analysis of responses is attached.
3.    Mr. Brushett outlined a number of issues raised in the 1CR that might be
discussed. He mentioned that it was important to draw a distinction in so doing between
the project, i.e. the Government's program and the IDA credit which was provided to
finance a portion of the (foreign exchange) costs of the program. With regard to the
management of the credit, a number of concerns could be legitimately raised, i.e. was
there room for improvement in procurement design and planning, what more could have
been done to streamline project implementation. Other concerns were of a broader nature
and included: the limited extent to which external assistance especially from the NGO



Annex A
and private sector was used during the program; and the limited follow up on studies and
technical assistance provided under the project for drought management capacity
building. Mr. Brushett finally requested help in completing a number of tables in the
ICR, with particular regard to total project costs and financing. No complete estimate had
thus far been prepared but it was intended that a tentative estimate be provided in the final
version of the ICR.
4.    Mr. Simango laid out some of the principal findings and recommendations of the
Government report which had been prepared on the basis of work carried out by an
Interministerial Task Force. He prefaced his remarks by stressing the priority that
should be placed on reflecting on the recurrence of drought, its economic impact and
integration in the planning process for the future. Drought appeared to be more
frequent and 1991/92 could not be looked on as an isolated event unlikely to reoccur. Mr.
Simango referred to the various components of the program and notkd that the needs of
the power sector had not originally been included. Whilst the project was well prepared
and appraised, most of the work had been done by thie Bank and the government role
was a secondary one, with minimal involvement of provincial and district planning
structures, mainly due to capacity limitations within government. There were problents
in project management since there was no clear definitions of responsibilities within
government. Government capacity was stretched during project implementation and this
resulted at times in weak coordination of the different inputs to the program and shortfalls
in coordination, e.g. of the NGO role. This also contributed to the fact that in terms of
the achievement of physical objectives the programn fell short in many areas, such as crop
pack distribution. There were absorption capacity problems in the water sector too, such
that for example not much advantage was taken of the introduction of the hydrofracturing
units. Mr. Simango made mention of the fact that there had been follow up on the lessons
learned from the drought experience in some cases, notably the Department of Social
Welfare which held a workshop in April 1993. Government's view was that
coordination, planning and drought management continued to be weak. The
institutional structure for drought management needed to be strengthened and the
establishment of a permanent institutional structure dedicated to drought management
had to be seriously considered.
5.    The joint chairmen invited reactions to the two presentations with a view to
developing a list of issues for plenary discussion. Fourteen (14) points were raised by the
participants and noted for discussion after brief presentations from the line ministries.
These points were as follows:
*     The need to clarify the respective role of Bank, Government and others in
the project appraisal process;
*     The need to clarify coordination responsibility - NEPC role seen as not
clear and not felt; what should be Finance's responsibility;



Annex A
*     The contribution to implementation delays of a lack of knowledge of
World Bank procurement procedures;
*     Better coordination needed of procurement and delivery processes as well
as of reporting and monitoring on project progress;
*     The framework for management in a drought situation, clearly specifying
responsibilities, is not clear - is there a role for a permanent institutional
structure;
*     The planning and policy framework for targeting of drought assistance
needs reconsideration;
*     The need to phase implementation and get a realistic ume scale for a
drought recovery program;
*     Greater attention needed to be given to financial coordination and
accounting;
*     Communication needs to improve in future to keep all parties informed on
key changes and processes;
*     Appropriate and responsive emergency procedures should be developed;
*     Experience has demonstrated the need to keep political and
practical/operational approaches to emergency needs in balance;
*     There is a need for adequate documentation and information flow;
*     There should be a defined ox, :rall structure for program monitoring,
supervision and management; and
*     Clear financial arrangements are needed in order to assure the efficiency of
various activities.
6.    Ms. Hammar added four additional issues on the basis of her reading of the draft
ICR and PCR:
*     There are capacity constraints under emergency conditions - short term
and long term solutions may be different, i.e. external assistance in the
short run, capacity building in the long run;
*     Project design experience suggests the need for clearer objectives,
targeting and an explicit implementation planning framework;



Annex A
*     The right balance has to be struck between relief, recovery and mitigation
each of which has particular policy, planning and institutional responses;
and
*     Expectations have to be brought closer to realities in respect of resources,
capacities and timeframes.
7.    The joint chairmen invited representatives of the diffe~rent ministries and agencies
represented to present their views on the successes and failures of the program from their
(sectoral) point of view. They regretted the fact that, despite confirming their attendance,
some ministries and agencies were not represented at the workshop that is Health and
Child Welfare; Social Welfare; Transport and Energy; District Development Fund;
National Coordination Unit. Mr. Mathende of Agriculture suggested that the appraisal of
the project had been hurried and there had generally been inadequate Lime for preparation
of project components. Delays in procurement and shortfalls in the availability of
funding had both contributed to the need to scale back the agricultural recovery program.
Mr. Chitsiko of Agritex referred also to the inadequacy of inputs in relation to the
original size of the program. This also raised the targeting issue - who should have
benefited most from the scarce resources available? It might be preferable in future to
subsidize inputs rather than give free handouts. There was also a need to promote
more appropriate agricultural strategies in future, inter alia to economize on the use of
water. Dr. Madzima suggested that whilst the livestock component encountered no major
implementation problems, there were delays traceable to unfamiliarity with World Bank
procurement procedures in his department. Government Tender Board also proved to be
a bottleneck at times. He mentioned that there was an ongoing medium term mitigation
program for the livestock sector. Mrs Zimba also referred to implementation delays in
the water sector that were related to problems of procurement, within government and the
World Bank, which were however eventually ironed out. Another problem was the
shortage of staff who could be dedicated to the project - a full time central project
coordinator might have been helpful.
8.    Mr. Masoso for the Reserve Bank focused on issues relating to the disbursement
of the IDA credit. One constraint was the low level of resources actually available in the
Special Account at any given time. More frequent replenishment was hindered by the
unavailability of documentation on a timely basis. This was not helped by inadequate
staffing for the project in the concerned line ministries. A further problem was the need
to set aside Special Account funds against letters of credit. Messrs. Chidavaenzi and
Makuwaza of Finance commented on project implementation and accounting
arrangements. Not everything could be foreseen in the design of an emergency operation.
However the situation in 1991/92 was not helped by the rigidity of the procurement
procedures, e.g. no fast track for financing, issuance of licenses. Coordination could have
worked better had the concerned ministries and agencies attended the weekly meetings on
a regular basis and at the appropriate level. Finance's specific role in the emergency still
presupposed that the ministries were basically responsible for implementation.



Annex A
9.    Ms. Haminar, in leading the discussion of issues raised, organised the material
into five broad headings: institutional framework; policy framework; procedures;
financing; and planning.
Institutional framework - The existence of the Civil Protection Act and the
responsibilities given to the Minister of Local Government and others in a disaster
situation was recognised. However the ministry had limited capacity (the civil
protection department having been disbanded) and the act did not go into detail
with regard to drought emergencies. The National Civil Protection Plan was not
well known to ministries - it needs fuller dissemination. This plan established
how the ministries are charged with the preparation of sector plans which effort
now needed to be redoubled. The need for coordination was recognised as the
focal point for coordination differed, i.e. Local Government for implementation,
NEPC for planning, Finance for resource mobilisation. NEPJ is better placed to
plan and coordinate the programme, hence its role needs to be developed and
technical assistance is being sought to this end. The link between the occurrence
and nature of droughts (and other emergencies) and the economic planning
framework and targets had to be developed. NEPC should look at emergencies as
"dynamic planning opportunities" and coordinate the translation of lessons
learned into future drought planning. On the whole the workshop endorsed the
view that the coordination of emergencies should be within the established
planning system.
Policy framework - The workshop favored the idea of an overall national policy
framework for disaster management. The Civil Protection Act provides a broad
framework and a National Plan for Civil Protection was developedfor the
implementation and interpretation of the provisions of theAct. It was
recognised that the provisions of the Act might not be fully utilised and
familiarity of the various ministries and agencies with the Act had to be increased.
A national policy should build up frem sectoral policies which were not fully
developed, though recent progress in some areas e.g agriculture and water was
noted. In such sectoral policies, it would be helpful to distinguish between
disaster reaction, mitigation and the underlying need to respond to social
problems and poverty issues. The workshop felt that targeting of drought
assistance was a matter that had not been satisfactorily resolved and a matter that
should be given close attention in the development of sector policy.
Procedures - Participants generally accepted that emergency procedures needed
to be well integrated into existing procedures and institutional framework.
Nonetheless at the point of emergency declaration, it should be clearer than it is
now what emergency procedures come into effect and what regular procedures
they would supplant. Otherwise much of the discussion focused on procurement
and the need for Tender Board to develop its procedures to account for an
emergency. Both regular and emergency procedures would have to be



Annex A
disseminated and thoroughly understood by ministries and agencies otherwise the
benefit of having such might not be realised.
Planning - There were several dimensions to planning for the drought emergency
- and it was the responsibility of all concerned ministries and agencies, and not
just NEPC, to take appropriate steps. A better job had to be done on collection,
analysis and communication of information. Indicators needed to be developed
for drought declaration, with particular regard to leading indicators of an expected
drought situation. Planning needed to be informed by identification of vulnerable
groups in a drought situation and how best to respond to this vulnerability. Broad
objectives and goals could be developed on this basis, but this would have to be
supplemented by more detailed implementation planning once the nature and
dimensions of a particular drought emergency were known. Such implementation
planning was a weak area and helped explain some of the shortfalls in the
response to the 1991/92 drought. Lessons from that experience ought to be
applied. A suggestion made was that (some) ministries could develop a "rapid
response mechanism" to be put into place in the event of an emergency - people to
be involved and procedures to be followed would be identified in advance.
Financing - The workshop recognised that drought emergencies required that
both local currency and foreign exchange resources had to be raised in a short
time frame. What could be done to prepare for such? There was discussion on
the creation of a drought fund as an advance special financing mechanism - in a
sense the 1995/96 drought levy acted in this way. The idea was worth pursuing
providing responsibility for managing such a fund was clear as well as the ends to
which such funding could be put. It was recognised that donor responses to
drought needs were often delayed, as in 1991/92 by the lack of information from
Government, the late declaration of an emergency and the lack of specificity in
the drought response program. If these could be addressed, donors would
generally be willing to accelerate projert appraisal and approval of financing and
would be sympathetic to increasing coordination of procedures. A special effort
still needed to be made to disburse funds quickly - to this end more donors might
want to adopt advance funding through a special account mechanism. A point
was made about maximising the use of grants before loans and credits (such as the
IDA credit in 1992) were accessed. This would only work if there was a stronger
proactive role taken by Government in identifying available sources of finance at
an early stage. The needfor close consultation and coordination between
central ministries and implementing agencies was also emphasised.
10.   Ms. Hammar then led a concluding session to arrive at a plan of action to be
undertaken at the conclusion of the workshop.
(a)   In regard to completing the ICR the following was agreed:



Annex A
- Individual ministries to provide information for completion of
Statistical Tables by mid-July;
- Comments on the text of the draft ICR to the Bank through
NEPC by mid-July; and the Bank to give feedback to Government
through NEPC on results of Bank management review of the draft
ICR by mid-August.
(b)   In regard to future drought preparedness and management the following
was agreed:
- All relevant ministries and agencies to participate in capacity
building for disaster management program organised by Local
Government as an aid to developing sectoral policies and
procedures. First meeting under this initiative planned for July 31-
August 2. Other workshops to be held in future to cover technical
assistance, training and provincial structures.
- Government to consider potential value of reopening the EDRMP
IDA credit and the associated Norwegian grant in the light of
current year drought needs. NEPC and Finance to coordinate
sector inputs for a formal approach to the Bank before end July.
- NEPC to provide feedback to ministries and agencies on its plans
to strengthen its capacity in the area of drought mitigation and
planning.
- Ministries and agencies to assess their current information
systems and the extent to which these are adequate for generating
usable information for drought preparedness and planning. Any
requirements need to be coordinated with NEPC's capacity
building program.



Annex A
Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project
Implementation Completion Report Workshop
June 21, 1995
List of Attendees:
Mr. F. Simango           Dep. Director, Monitoring and Evaluation NEPC
Mr. G. Sigobodhla        Asst. Chief Economist                NEPC
Mr. N. Mudzinganyama    Asst. Chief Economist                 NEPC
Mr. L. Mujuru            Principal Economist                  NEPC
Mr. M. Mangwende         Principal Economist                  NEPC
Mr. B. Makwindi          Senior Economist                     NEPC
Mr. T. Murombedzi        Senior Economist                     NEPC
Mr. A. Musindo           Economist                            NEPC
Mr. F. Chidavaenzi       Asst. Secretary                      Finance
Mr. G. Makuwaza          Accountant                           Finance
Mr. J. Mathende          Senior Agricultural Economist        Agriculture
Dr. W. Madzima           Dep Director, Vet. Services          Agriculture
Mr. R. Chitsiko          Acting Director                      Agritex
Mr. D. Utete             Acting Principal Ag Extension Specialist Agritex
Mr. I. Pompi             Senior Agronomist                    Agritex
Mrs. L. Tapfumaneyi      Senior Crop Specialist               Agritex
Mrs. 0. Zimba            Hydrogeologist                       Lands & Water
Ms. S. Ndlovu            Asst Secretary                       Local Govt
Mr. B. Masoso            Senior Disbursement Officer          Reserve Bank
Mr. S. Brushett          Dep Resident Representative, Harare  World Bank
Ms. A. Hammar            Consultant



Annex A
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
TOTAL#== 15
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial   Partial   Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                      5           9           1               0
Sector policies                     3           7           4               0
Financial objectives                3           10          0               0
Institutional development           2           7           6               0
Physical objectives                 6           4           2               1
Poverty reduction                   6           7           1               1
Gender issues                       0           4           4               6
Other social objectives             1           6           3               0
Environmental objectives            2           4           4               2
Public sector management            2           7           3               0
Private sector development          2           4           5               1
Other (specify)                     0           0           0               0
B. Project sustainability         Likely             Unlikely        Uncertain
7                   3                5
C. iBank performance              Highly
Satisfactory      Satisfactory    Deficient
(/)             (1)              (1)
Identification                         5                 8                1
Preparation assistance                 3                10                1
Appraisal                              3                10                1
Supervision                            2                10                1
D. Borrower performance            Highly
Satisfactory        Satisfactory   Deficient
(/)             (")              (1)
Preparation                            2                  6                6
Implementation                         I                 11                2
Covenant compliance                    0                 10                2
Operation (if applicable)              0                 9                 1
E. Assessment of outcome     Highly
Satisfactory Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Deficient
1           13           0              0



Annex B
GOVERNMENT OF ZIMBABWE
Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project
EVALUATION REPORT
[Loan 2399-ZIMI
A. INTRODUCTION
Preparation of the PCR
1.    Preparation of the Project Completion Report (PCR) Part 11 ' started with the
setting up of an inter-ministerial evaluation team composed of staff from Ministry of
Lands, Agriculture and Water Development (MLAWD), Ministry of Local Government,
Rural and Urban Development (MLGRUD), Ministry of Public Service, Labour and
Social Welfare (MPSLSW), Ministry of Transport and Energy (MOTE), Ministry of
Health and Child Welfare (MOHCW), Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the National
Economic Planning Commission (NEPC). The committee was chaired and coordinated
by the Monitoring and Evaluation Division in the NEPC. The list of team members is
indicated in Annex 1.
Methodology
2.    The approach adopted in familiarising team members on the objectives, planning
and implementation of the project, involved presentations and discussions on progress
reports of the various components of the project by implementing ministries and their
departments. Meetings were also held to discuss Part I and III of the PCRI prepared by
the World Bank (WB).
3.    Guidelines for preparing the PCR were in accordance with the WB format' and
own experience from similar assignments. In essence, the thrust of the PCR was
analytical and selective rather than descriptive and comprehensive, and reflects the
borrower's perspective. The PCR, apart from evaluating policy matters looks at the
project in terms of measurable targets, its developmental impact and lessons for the
future.
4.    Due to time limitations the team was unable to visit project sites to assess the
impact of the project and conduct interviews with both staff on the ground and project
beneficiaries. The team benefited from project reports and observations of team members
who reported on these issues. The documents availed to the review team are shown in
Annex 2.
First draft was done by the Bank (and Government) on the basis of PCR Guidelines. Final version by the Bank
follows ICR guidelines.



Annex B
B. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Policy Thrust
5.   In February 1992, Government realized that the drought that was affecting the
Southern African region threatened the well being of the people in the country. The
drought affected areas which had experienced more than ten years of below average
rainfall rendering such population more vulnerable to starvation. The drought led to a
critical food security situation and a deteriorating water supply situation which led the
President to declare in March 1992, a State of Disaster in the country.
6.    The project was formulated in response to the declaration of the drought as a
national disaster by the President, in terms of the Civil Protection Act, which needed
extraordinary measures to assist and protect persons who were affecwcd or likely to be
affected in the country. The objective of the declaration was to introduce emergency
measures to avert wide scale famine and provide an environment which would enable the
productive sector to recover rapidly.
7.    The project was formulated and implemented at a time Government had embarked
on a major economic policy, the Economic Structural Adjustment Programme (ESAP).
Instead of a 5 percent expected increase in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for 1992, a
decline of 9 percent was forecasted due to the drought, with agricultural output falling by
35 percent. The fall in GDP was expected to be accompanied by a large increase in the
balance of payments deficit and increased government expenditure on drought relief
programmes. The expected importation of basic food commodities due to shortages of
food on the local market was expected to fuel inflation.
Project Objectives
8.    The project was formulated with the overall objective of alleviating famine in the
country for the present and future. It was also aimed at restoring and enhancing
Zimbabwe's productive base to enable it to recover quickly from the adverse effects of
the drought.
Project Components
9.    To achieve the above mentioned objectives, the project focused on the following
components:-
Importation of foodstuff (US $454m) Agricultural Recovery Programme
including tillage services, seed and crop chemical distribution, and importation of
equipment and spares (US $263m)
Expanded programmes of Food for Work (FFW)



Annex B
Child Supplementary Feeding Programme (all costs excluding food) (US $1.9m)
Public Works Programme (US $10.4m)
Drought related railway and road transportation (US $21 7.2m)
Emergency water supply rehabilitation and water drilling (US $58.3m)
Institutional Strengthening (US $2.4m)
A Power Sector Recovery component ( introduced later)
The total cost of the project was US $1 ,044m of which WB support was through the
provision of US $150m. The project was to be implemented from April 1992 to August
1993. The project can be considered ambitious in view of the size of the project and
timeframe within which it was to be completed.
C. PROJECT PLANNING, DESIGN AND ORGANISATION
Project Planning and Design
10.   Although the project was identified by Government, the appraisal process was
mostly done by the WB partly due to lack of experience and preparedness on the part of
GOZ. Government played a secondary role in providing information needed by the WB
appraisal team. This led to the project design drawing heavily on lessons learnt from the
WB's experience with other drought recovery operations elsewhere.
11.   The project did not involve provincial and district staff in the planning process.
This affected the implementation of the project since plans were handed down to them.
Workshops could have been held during appraisal stage to educate district staff on the
contents and procedure for undertaking the project.
12.  In the Letter of Emergency Drought Policy (LEDP) sent to the WB by
Government in June 1992, the project design did not specify clearly the specific
objectives of the project. This affected the implementation of the project since it was
difficult to set up realistic targets with unclear project objectives.
13.   Targeting of the food distribution component of the project to households in the
communal and resettlement areas tended to neglect other vulnerable groups in the urban,
small and large scale commercial areas who were equally affected by the drought. The
identification of the target group was narrow and biased towards those perceived to be
most "needy".
14.   Since this was the first emergency drought project funded by the WB in
Zimbabwe, the design of the project should have been more specific on WVB procurement



Annex B
procedures and how these could be adapted to suit the emergency situation. This led to
problems as implementing agencies were not aware of the WB's procurement procedures,
and how to react to an emergency drought situation.
15.   The drought caused many boreholes to dry up and ZESA had to ration electricity
supply in the urban areas, due to limited hydro-electric capacity. The need to include the
power sector and private sector component in the drilling of boreholes was not foreseen.
Although these components were later introduced during project implementation, this
delayed the completion of the project by a year. As a result of this delay, project costs
increased and government had to pay commitment fees for the extended period of
implementation.
Project Organisation
16.   The roles of the Committee of Ministers and that of Resident Provincial Ministers
were not clearly defined. This led to duplication of functions at both national and
provincial levels. There were overlapping roles at the national level between the
MLGRUD and the Office of the Vice President regarding the co-ordination of the project
and the administration of the Civil Protection Act. This confusion was worsened by the
temporary transfer of the National Civil Protection and Co-ordination Committee
(NCPCC) from the MLGRUD to the Vice President's office as both agencies were
coordinating and implementing the same Act. At provincial level, the roles of the
Resident Ministers tendered to overlap with those of the governors and the provincial
administrators. This hindered effective co-ordination during the implementation of the
project.
17.   The responsibility for feeding primary school children, from grades one to three,
in the drought stricken areas was not clearly defined at appraisal. It was not clear whether
the feeding of school children was the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and
Culture (MEC) or that of the MOHCW. This issue has not been solved yet.
18.   The project management arrangement with regard to IDA financing was not well
defined at appraisal. This delayed the implementation of the project. Although the WB
and government later agreed that the MOF should take over this responsibility, the
ministry lacked capacity to carry out such a task effectively due to manpower constraints.
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
General
19.   Sector ministries and their departments, parastatals and the private sector were
involved in the implementation of the project. The project did not have a full time project
coordination and monitoring unit despite the fact that there were about eight
implementing ministries. The volume of work involved needed a full-time project
coordinator to enable effective implementation. The implementation as outlined in the



Annex B
LEDP was expected to be completed by 30 September 1993. The programme was
however extended to 30 September 1994, mainly due to the re-definition of the
emergency water plan to bring in the private sector for borehole drilling and introduction
of a power sector component to cater for spare parts for Hwange Power Station and
importation of electricity from Zaire and South Africa.
20.   Officers from implementing agencies were not initially appraised on the WB
disbursement procedures, resulting in a number of mistakes which slowed down the
disbursement of funds. Some implementing agencies did not attend weekly disbursement
meetings organized jointly by the WB and MOF to assess progress on project
implementation. Such agencies encountered endless problems which negatively affected
progress.
21.   The late allocation of funds by Government adversely affectcd the implementation
of the project. During the 1992/93 financial year, the foreign component of the project
was not budgeted for, hence implementing agencies had problems in getting VOC
transfers. This resulted initially in counterpart funds not going into the Exchequer
Account. However, funds were made available later on in September 1992 when it was
rather late, especially for the procurement of inputs, such as those for the Agricultural
Recovery Programme. The funds were transferred to the implementing agencies late,
which resulted in a number of suppliers going for months without receiving their
payments. In some instances, the funds were not enough to meet the standards set by
government, for example, the official per capita ration was 1 Okg per person per month
initially which was latter increased to 15 kg. In reality, the average allocation was 6 kg
per person per month with some months being as low as 3 kg per person.
22.   The WB tender procedure using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) was
difficult to use during the emergency operation. Government was required to tender
world wide and engage the cheapest company. During the implementation of the project,
it took a long time to process the bids. It was realized that the cheapest companies were
not always the best. In one instance for example, the company that won the tender had
never worked in a developing country and experienced a lot of difficulties in procuring
the required supplies. The contract had to be terninated and a local company engaged
thereafter.
23.  Implementation of the project began at a time when Government was
implementing the civil service reform programme. This had an effect on staff morale in
the different ministries as staff were uncertain about their future in Government. In some
ministries e.g MOHCW, MPSLSW, most of the posts required for implementating the
project were on a temporary basis. Government has not yet converted the posts to a full
time basis. In addition, the MPSLSW, is not well represented at local level although it
was one of the main implementing agencies of the project. This has implications on the
institutional strengthening aspect to ensure sustainabilty. Government could not fund
additional posts, due to the civil service reform.



Annex B
24.   Problems were encountered in the co-ordination of Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs) who were also undertaking food relief activities. There was no
mechanism put in place to ensure effective co-ordination of NGOs and its interface with
GOZ. In some instances, this led to wastage of resources as a result of duplicating
activities by Government agencies and NGOs.
Project Components
Food Import Programme
25.   The devastating drought necessitated the importation of food from as far as
America, Argentina and Mexico. Problems related to time lag between placement of
orders, and its delivery were further worsened by congestion at the ports. The
introduction of toll charges by the Mozambican authorities caused problems to road
hauliers contracted to bring maize from the port of Beira. For Zimbabwe, the port of
Beira was the most ideal in terms of distance but port users preferred South African ports
as they were safer and more reliable, despite the distance involved.
26.  Internally, food was moved by rail and road. The DSW was responsible for the
transportation of food from the GMB deports to approximately 1 500 distribution points
in the country. The National Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ), Central Mechanical
Equipment Department (CMED), District Development Fund (DDF), the Zimbabwe
National Army (ZNA), and private hauliers were charged with the responsibility of
transporting the food. Shortage of rail wagons and locomotives to move maize destined
for Zimbabwe and neighbouring countries was a critical problem for this component. A
solution was to hire South African locomotives and wagons.
27.   Government paid local transporters using local currency. Some of these local
transporters were attracted to operate in Zambia because the Zambian Government was
paying using the US $. This problem could have been minimised had Government
offered competitive prices to attract local transporters. Carrying food from main depots
to distribution points was a critical problem during project implementation. In some
areas, this was worsened by the poor state of roads.
Drought Relief Programme
28.   The Drought Relief Programme (DRP) was initially aimed at supplying free food
to the young, infirm and disabled. However, due to the severity of the drought, this
component had to be extended to able-bodied persons. Whilst food managed to reach
most villages in the country, supplies were erratic and in-adequate. The situation got out
of hand when the number of people in need of food increased to about 50 percent of the
total national population. There was a significant difference between official estimates of
relief cases and the situation on the ground. This made planning and targeting difficult
for the DSW officers. Computers that were part of the project, could have been used to
update the data, but only arrived in 1994 due to delays caused by WB procurement



Annex B
procedures. Although the computers arrived late, the ministry has however managed to
update its data from 1982 to the present.
29.   This component of the project suffered due to conflict between the implementors
and politicians since the latter were not aware that government was supposed to account
for all food issued. Politicians informed the community that food would be made
available in quantities that did not correspond with the available resources. The problem
could have been minimised if government had informed the community on the amount of
food that was to be issued to each household.
30.   The screening criteria used were not good enough to capture significant
differences in the welfare of people who qualified for food relief, especially households
that did not depend upon agriculture. The lack of adequate personnel by the DSW made
accurate screening impossible, hence daily variations in the numbers requiring assistance.
This suggests that, there is need to review and modify the screening criteria for food relief
to take into account local variations and resources of people.
31.   The Food for Work (FFW) programme was designed to enable able-bodied
persons to participate in rural development projects in return for food. The component
was not well designed and hence inefficient in the use of resources. The conimunity was
not aware of how the FFW programme was expected to operate. Government needs to
identify, design and approve potential FFW projects before emergency situations. All
technical ministries should have some input in the planning, implementation and
monitoring of FFW programmes.
Public Works Programme
32.   DDF was charged with the responsibility of providing employment to communal
people. The programme managed to fund a total of 485 projects and employed an
average of 4,000 participants per month. A daily wage of $4 per person was paid in
return for work done, to buy food and other necessities. However, due to inflation rates
which were over 30 percent, this allowance was not adequate. The programme, unlike
the FFW programme, provided participants with cash instead of food. This had an
advantage as people could buy food and other necessities of their choice, unlike in the
FFW programme.
Child Supplementary Feeding Programme (CSFP)
33.   The Child Supplementary Feeding Progamme (CSFP) was coordinated by the
MOHCW under the leadership of the National Drought Relief Programme managed by
the MPSLSW. The objectives of the CSFP were to screen and identify malnourished
children under the age of five in need of feeding, provide a daily supplementary meal,
create nutrition awareness to communities, as well as providing nutrition and health
education to all those involved in the CSFP at feeding points. Although the
implementation of the programme did not begin until July 1992, as funds were not



Annex B
released timeously by the MOF, the project managed to feed about 1.6 million children at
about 30 000 feeding points throughout the country. Malnutrition however continued to
increase to levels which were even higher than the pre-disaster declaration period. This
was a result of insufficient dietary provision combined with infection and lack of other
micro-nutrients like iron and vitamin A. The rates of wasting and underweight children
during the implementation phase of the project was higher than those in 199 1.
34.   A CSFP secretariat was formed at the national level under the directorship of the
National Nutrition Unit in the MOHCW consisting of a Programme Manager, three
Logistic officers, two drivers, two secretaries and a computer clerk. These cadres were
hired on short term contracts. A logistic officer and program manager have already
resigned and the remaining are unsure of their future.
35.  Implementation of the programme was affected by lack of transport to distribute
food and poor supervision as well as low support visits by the head office officials.
36.   During the implementation phase of the CSFP, it was realized that pregnant and
lactating mothers had to be protected from the vagaries of drought to ensure the well
being of a child and the mother's health. Resources were solicited for the programme but
this could not be fully implemented due to lack of capacity within the sector. The
programme was implemented at provincial discretion in the most hard hit provinces i.e.
Matabeleland and Masvingo. In some areas, mothers were fed from the CSFP and in
other areas, they were given dry rations as take home packages from rural health centres.
37.   Following reports from schools which expressed concern over noticeable levels of
clinical malnutrition and the potentially high rate of educational wastage from
absenteeism and fainting in class, the MOHCW was given an additional responsibility to
initiate an emergency school child feeding programme for grades 1, 2 and 3. From the
CSFP allocations, the MOHCW was allocated Z $1 Om to execute the programme. The
programme is ongoing, utilizing residual funds and food initially donated. The problem
currently is that the responsibility for feeding school children is not clearly spelt out
between the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Health and Child
Welfare. Although both ministries have communicated on the issue, no definite
agreement has been reached yet.
Agricultural Recovery Programme
Crop Input Distribution Component
38.   The MLAWD's role in the above component of the project was to procure
agricultural inputs for distribution to farmers through AGRITEX. Proposals for the
allocation of funds for free agricultural inputs for 2.5 hectares per farm family to nearly
one million small holder families was done in May 1992. The MOF advised MLAWD
that the programme was too ambitious in August. The programme was then scaled down
to supply inputs adequate for only 0.5 hectares per farm family as the MOF was only able



Annex B
to provide Z $1 lOm for the programme. The late provision of funds delayed the
procurement of inputs, which required a minimum of 21 working days through the
Government Tender Board. An extra Z $1 OOm was provided by the donor community in
December 1992, a time considered late for procurement and distribution of agricultural
inputs. The transporters had problems in some areas which had been rendered
inaccessible due to slippery and rain damaged roads.
39.   Some inputs particularly small grain seed suitable for natural region IV and V
were not locally available in sufficient quantities, resulting in the importation of seed of
unknown performance in the local environment.
40.   Local politicians, ignorant of government accounting procedures interfered with
the distribution of crop packs. In some areas, overstated levels of assistance adversely
affected the normal input distribution system. Farmers who could afford to buy inputs
did not do so anticipating free packs from government and agricultural input dealers
operating in communal areas did not order sufficient quantities fearing that farmers were
not going to buy since government had promised free inputs.
41.   Although MLAWD had made it clear that only full time smallholder farmers who
were adveserly affected by the 1991/92 drought were to benefit from the programme,
everyone located in the smallholder sector including gainfully employed people such as
teachers, nurses and local businessmen ended up benefiting due to political interference.
Tillage Scheme
42.   Small holder farmers depend on draught animals for their land preparation. The
draught animals that survived the drought were too weak to assist in land preparation,
hence government embarked on the free tillage programme in order for the small holder
farmners to prepare land for the 1992/93 season. DDF and DERUDE took the lead in the
implementation of this component. 406 tractors were expected to plough 1.6m hectares of
land but only managed 43,000 hectares, i.e. only 2 percent of the 1.6 m hectares was
ploughed. This was due to the late provision of funds for tractor spares, ploughs and
subsistence allowances for field staff. An additional 150 new tractors were provided
late, hence they could not make any meaningful contribution to the project. A system
where all farmers were asked to meet part of the tillage costs could have produced better
results. This is evidenced by the fact that when free tillage was suspended in March 1993
and paid services resumed afterwards at an increased cost from Z$70 to Z$ 160 per ha,
there was no significant fall in the demand for tractor tillage services.
Cotton Input Scheme
43.   The cotton input scheme was intended to assist registered small holder farmers
who were producing approximately half of the national cotton product, with inputs on a
re-imbursement basis. Government did not allocate sufficient funds for the project in the
1991/92 financial year, which forced the Cotton Marketing Board (CMB) to borrow



Annex B
funds commercially, resulting in high cost of funds and a reduction in the size of the
programme. Farmers, with the support of ZFU, resisted terms imposed by CMB causing
the subscription level to fall far below expected figures. Involvement of organisations
such as the ZFU in the planning stage was inadequate.
The Livestock Rescue Scheme
44.   This scheme had three main components, namely, construction of feeding pens
and feeding/sale pens; establishment of watering points; and a credit facility for livestock
purchase. Delays were encountered due to the late release of funds from government and
in some cases, unavailability of funds. Problems were also encountered in the
procurement and supply of veterinary drugs, equipment, etc. Small holder farmers were
also suspicious that the scheme would result in forced de-stocking or confiscation of
cattle by government. Targeted farmers resisted using the facilities as the policy was
unclear policy to them. The capacity of the feedlots, of 1,000 cattle per head proved too
large and unmanageable. Three to five smaller feedlots per districts would be more
effective.
Emergency Water Supply Rehabilitation and Water Drilling
45.   After the declaration of the drought as a national disaster, the National Action
Committee (NAC) was tasked to respond promptly to the lack of and shortage of drinking
water throughout the country caused by the drought. An inter-ministerial task force
chaired by the MLGRUD was set up to implement the decisions through the National
Coordinating Unit (NCU).
46.  In urban areas, the programme was supposed to assist urban local authorities
which had serious water problems such as Bulawayo, Chegutu and Mutare. The
programme was not completed due to insufficient funding and problems encountered in
the importation of materials. Some activities were partially funded and in other instances
were too big to get full funding. In Kadoma, for example, the Council managed to get
funds for the pipeline to town but could not be funded for augmentation.
47.   There was lack of co-ordination when reporting on progress regarding drilling and
well sinking. While DDF produced concise reports weekly, MLAWD had problems in
producing progress reports. On the other hand, DDF was completely excluded from the
running of the drilling programme other than being the custodian of the materials used.
48.   The headworks installed under this programme did not meet DDF standards
though they were handed over to DDF to maintain. This was because DDF was not
provided with vehicle running costs to supervise the contractors as well as the fact that
the contract document was silent on the role of DDF on borehole drilling activity.
49.   A hydrofracturing unit was acquired for DWD by the WB. This component of the
project was initiated by the WB for the DWD. The project, according to the WB, had



Annex B
worked in some other countries hence it was expected to work in Zimbabwe.
Unfortunately, the hydrofracturing equipment recommended was not suitable for
Zimbabwe. The DWD was in need of drilling rigs and not the hydrofracturing unit2.
50.   The private sector water drilling component was added to the project at a later
stage. US $6m was allocated for the purchase of drilling services while US $12.5m was
allocated for tractors and spares. Most of the companies have used their allocations but
have not submitted evidence of payment to MOF. MOF is still making follow ups on
this component as only US $lm has been disbursed.
Power Sector Recovery
51.   The project funds were to be used for Hwange maintenance, mainly to purchase
overhaul spares and import of electricity from South Africa and Zaire. This was to be
done in three phases, firstly, the purchase of spares for emergency repairs, secondly for
carrying out all the necessary maintenance and improving stock levels, and thirdly,
purchase of spares for the major overhauls of the units. Power cuts that were affecting
industry, agriculture and households in general were greatly reduced due to the
implementation of the project.
52.   The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ) and MOF took long to make the 20
percent down payments required to open the Letters of Credit as per signed supply
contracts. The RBZ delayed re-imbursing the banks on paid Letters of Credit which
effectively forced ZESA to borrow from the banking sector. This in turn affected the
delivery period, as the opening of the Letters of Credit was a pre-requisite for the
commencement of contracts. This resulted in the payment of invoices going beyond the
expiry date of the WB facility set at 30 September 1994, to 31 December 1994.
53.   ZESA, the beneficiary of the credit, did not have a copy of the Credit Agreement.
It was not clear to the parastatal whether this was a grant or loan, and therefore had no
idea about the terms of the loan such as the grace period, repayment period and rates of
interest.
Institutional Strengthening
54.   This component of the project was given little attention during project
implementation due to poor coordination on the part of government. Although project
implementation has been officially terminated, other arrangements have been made to
carry out drought studies under the Norwegian grant, administered by IDA. These
studies are important since they will provide long term measures for drought
preparedness and mitigation.
2  Bank note: Hydrofracturing was an integral part of the Government's program. Financing for equipment,
technical assistance and training was provided by SIDA.



Annex B
E. PROJECT RESULTS AND IMPACTS
Achievements of project objectives and targets
55.   The project achieved its core objective of averting famine in the country. There
was not a single death recorded in the country due to lack of food. Although starvation
from drought was averted in the communal areas, it is difficult to assess the contribution
of the project in averting starvation in urban areas and large scale commercial farms
which did not receive drought relief.
56.   The DRP fed nearly 80 percent of the applicants after the declaration of drought
as a national emergency to the end of the project. As a result of the huge demand for
food relief and constraints on expenditure, government was unable to import enough food
for the country. From July to September 1992, for example, provinces received about
one third of requested grain for those people who had registered for food assistance. As a
result of these shortages, a reduction in monthly allocations per person was effected from
the anticipated 15 kg to an average of 5 kg per month in most wards. Details of the
drought relief food distribution are shown in table I below.
57.   The FFW component was designed to assist able-bodied persons to participate in
rural development projects in return for food. This component suffered a set back due to
lack of supervisory personnel and technicians which restricted the number of projects to
be implemented and contributed to the high failure rate. Several earth dams that were
constructed, for example, were washed away by the heavy rains of December 1992
rendering the roads impassable. Equipment for the project came well after the project life
time. Due to the form of remuneration that was provided for this component, people
were not eager to participate compared to the PWP where they got cash payments which
enabled them to buy commodities of their choice.
58.   The PWP employed about 4,000 people per month for the different projects
throughout the country. Roadworks and water projects accounted for more than 80
percent of the 485 projects.
59.   The CSFP managed to feed over a million children throughout the country. This
scheme was accepted by communities as it was regarded as a way of safeguarding the
health of their children. The scheme also strengthened community participation in other
government projects. Pregnant and lactating mothers who were initially not targeted,
ended up benefiting from the scheme. School enrollment improved especially in schools
that were designated as feeding points.
60.   Farm families who used the crop packs efficiently managed to recover in just one
season. The majority of the farmers were able to meet their immediate food requirements
after the 1992/93 harvest, reducing the cost of issuing food handouts on a massive scale.
92,000 farm units benefited from the crop packs that were provided by government. The
cattle programme was not very successful due to lack of trust by farmers towards



Annex B
government. Farmers were suspicious that the programme would result in government
confiscating their cattle. The cotton component suffered due to the high cost of
borrowing and resistance from the ZFU. Those farmers that participated in the project
managed to increase the total national cotton output with a significant amount.
61.   The project took precedence over planned activities of the IRWSS projects within
some districts, thereby affecting targets set by those districts. The increased workload
was to the detriment of planned activities. In some instances, it took long for boreholes
to be fitted with pumps.
62.   All towns that obtained loans for water rehabilitation and borehole drilling from
the project, failed to complete the projects. This implied that these towns are likely to
suffer from the same effects in the event of another drought, hence the need to complete
the projects. The failure to complete designed projects was mainly due to insufficient
funding from government and the time it took in tendering and importing required
materials. Lack of effective planning and coordination in government at central level
also affected this component. Achievements in the water rehabilitation and borehole
drilling component are shown in table 2 below.
63.   Though the energy component was included in the project at a later stage, the
power cuts that were associated with the early stages of the drought were slowly phased
out. The supply of electricity which had been reduced/rationed due to the drought was
restored to previous normnal conditions. Industry was assured of electricity supply which
saved some industries that could have collapsed due to lack of water and electricity.
Impact on the economy
64.   The project reduced undesirable secondary effects such as water and electricity
rationing. Rationing would have reduced the output in most of the productive sectors of
the economy. This in turn would have led to high rates of unemployment and rural urban
migration.
65.   Drought led to the postponement in meeting targets and requirements of the
WB/IMF pertaining to ESAP. Government borrowed more money because of the
drought and monetary and fiscal targets set had to be relaxed. Instead of reducing
subsidies to parastatals, government ended up increasing its subsidy to some parastatals
such as the GMB and ZESA. The budget deficit which was expected to be reduced to 7.1
percent of the GDP in 1992, increased to more than 10 percent because of the cost of
importing grain and the increased subsidies.
66.   The productive sector of the economy which was adversely affected by the
drought managed to recover in a very short period of time due to the implementation of
the project, particularly the agricultural and manufacturing sectors. From 1992 to 1993,
the GDP for the agriculture and the manufacturing sectors increased in nominal terms by
60 percent and 8 percent respectively.



Annex B
F. FINANCIAL DISBURSEMENTS AND ALLOCATIONS
Financial Disbursements
67.   From the US $1 50m pledged by IDA for the project, about 72 percent had been
disbursed as at 31 st July 1994. The disbursement method used was not compatible with
Government procedures, resulting in some of the funds not financing the budget as was
planned. Draw downs from the credit for unfinished contracts under the DWD,
Veterinary Services, ZESA and the private sector will continue up to the 31 March 1995.
The grant portion pledged has not yet been drawn and this may be used for drought
related evaluation activities. A special account of US $25m (originally US $1Om)
deposit, was opened with the RBZ. Withdrawals from this account were exclusively for
eligible expenditures which were made only when the WB had received satisfactory
evidence from the agencies. Implementing agencies either took a long time to submit
required documents or never submitted them to MOF, thus delaying disbursement of
funds into the special account. However, towards the end of the project, the WB started
recovering funds advanced into the special account resulting in a number of companies
not being paid due to shortage of funds.
Allocations
68.   Although implementing agencies were promised adequate PSIP allocations for
project implementation, these were not met by Government due to the need to reduce
budget deficit in line with ESAP. The MLAWD for instance was initially promised funds
for inputs enough for 2.5 hectares per farm family, but only got funds for inputs sufficient
to cover one hectare per farm family. This has implications on the sustainability of the
project, since some of the work such as the urban water rehabilitation, was not completed.
For those components that managed to get funding, the MOF transferred the money to
implementing ministries late.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILTY
69.   Due to poor coordination, government failed to fully implement the institutional
strengthening component. Its core objective was to improve both the short and long term
national drought management and mitigation capacity.
70.   At a workshop held in Kadoma in April 1993 to review the DRP, MPSLSW
proposed some recommendations to improve its effectiveness in mitigating the impact of
the drought in future. Some of the key recommendations included the following:-
the establishment of a permanent, high level disaster and drought relief
coordinating structure,
implementing one feeding programme to avoid duplication of activities
stimulating drought hardening activities.



Annex B
One year after the workshop was held, the recommendations were not followed indicating
a lack of seriousness in adopting and implementing the necessary policy measures.
71.   Although Government introduced some measures to recover costs for services
provided, interference by politicians made it difficult for agencies to recover costs. For
example, DWD failed to recover costs for water supplied to government institutions and
the community during the implementation phase of the project. The department is owed
Z $39m by government institutions for water services and it is difficult to recover the
money due to interference by politicians who shy away from austerities associated with
cost recovery measures.
72.   The sustainabilty of the project achievements may also be affected by the inability
of Government to fund additional posts in the MOHCW and DSW, due to the need to
reduce the size of the civil service. This was demonstrated during the implementation
phase of the project when donors had to step in to fund three posts for relief and transport
specialists and a specialist responsible for the development of a programme to improve
the technical supervision of the FFW projects.
H. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
73.   The WB made commendable effort in the preparation and processing of the
project document. It took approximately three months for the Bank to prepare the credit
document. The WB made follow-ups on project implementation through periodic
supervision missions which improved project implementation. WB officers attended
weekly inter-ministerial meetings, which improved communication between the Bank
and Government departments.
74.   Although the WB was flexible in the loan management as evidenced by the
approval of the power component, some of the conditions were not suitable for an
emergency drought situation. The procedure that public and private sector procurement
was required to use the simplified ICB procedures for procurement contracts valued at
US $ 500 000 or more did not go well with the implementing agencies. In some
instances, equipment that was to be used during the life span of the project arrived well
after August 1993, the expected date of the closure of the loan. The requirement that the
lowest evaluated bidder was to be awarded the tender did not augur well for ministries.
The WB took too long to approve tender documents and tender awards as Washington
insisted on approving every decision taken by the implementing agencies, without which
no payment would be made. This delayed the procurement and arrival of inputs.
75.   Local currency payments were not re-imbursed by the WB, and yet a number of
suppliers/companies included local costs on imported goods which were paid in local
currency. This was amended to enable local costs to be re-imbursed. Towards the end of
the project, the WB started recovering funds from the special account. This resulted in a
number of companies not being paid on time because of shortage of funds. Some



Annex B
companies suspended the supply of goods which were urgently needed by the
implementing agencies.
I. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
76.  In general, GOZ's performance was above expectations particularly given its lack
of experience in this type of project and at a time it had embarked on a major economic
adjustment programme. Government should be commended for efficiently using its
limited resources to procure a substantial part of the required food and non-food
components of the project such as equipment needed for health, water and sanitation
sectors. It is important to note that this was achieved despite a contracting revenue base,
worsening balance of payments position, inflation, liquidity problems on the local money
market and the increasing number of the population in need of food aid.
77.   The major weakness on the part of the Government was its failure to maintain
adequate budgetary support for project activities. This weakness was stemmed from the
need to reduce Government's high budget deficit and the fear of derailing ESAP. Under
funding affected, in particular, the implementation of the following components which
depended mostly on Government:
the water programme
FFW programme
CSFP
Due to poor coordination, GOZ failed to implement the institutional strengthening
component aimed at strengthening Government capacity to effectively coordinate and
manage emergency operations. This has consequences on the sustainabilty of the project.
78.   Government had limited capacity in terms of manpower to enable it to implement
the project effectively. This forced staff of the various departments such as AGRITEX,
DSW, to increase their workload above their normal duties. In some cases, the overload
delayed project implementation as some of the tasks were not executed timeously.
Performance could have been improved if Government had employed additional staff on
a temporary basis.
J. LESSONS LEARNT FROM PROJECT EXPERIENCE
79.   During the identification and appraisal stage, Government should play a more
significant role inorder to influence project design. This will enable Government to shape
the project in accordance with its policies in line with its established procedures and
capacity.
80.   The introduction of a temporary drought relief administration at national and
provincial level needs to be planned more carefully to avoid duplication and overlapping



Annex B
of roles and responsibilities. When formulating an emergency drought project, the roles
of each implementing ministry should be well defined to avoid duplication of efforts.
81.   The project has illustrated the need for Government to develop a clear policy on
identifying vulnerable groups in need of emergency drought relief and agricultural inputs.
Failure to develop clear policy guidelines resulted in the project being targeted to the
whole rural community including those who could afford to sustain themselves.
82.   Approval to procure inputs must be given in time whilst sourcing for funds is still
in progress.
83.   There is need for Government to provide enough funds for the whole project
especially if the component involves different ministries. There were situations where
the DWD was funded for dam construction with the MLGRUD not being funded for
augmentation of the water. There is need to improve the coordination of an emergency
especially where there is need for information flow from one level to another for decision
making purposes.
84.   EDRMP experience illustrates the difficulty in using ICB procedures in an
emergency drought situation. Tenders submitted to the WB under these procedures took
a long time to be approved. This caused delays in the procurement of inputs desperately
needed to reduce the effects of the drought disaster.
85.   The project revealed the capacity constraint of Government agencies in
implementing emergency drought relief operations effectively. There is need to increase
the number of staff and train them at all levels in drought preparedness.
86.   When contractors require 20 percent to open letters of credit, the RBZ and the
MOF should endeavor to make prompt payment to speed up establishing letters of credit.
This in turn will speed up the commencement of contracts and procurement of inputs.
87.   EDRMP demonstrated that after a disastrous drought such as the one experienced
in 1991/92 season, assistance in the forn of subsidized agricultural inputs is essential to
put small holder farmers back into production. However, it is important for Government
to guard against creating a dependency syndrome by handing out free inputs. For the
purposes of cost recovery, wherever possible, small holder farmers should meet part of
the input costs. Government should encourage and provide incentives for input suppliers
to invest in input distribution warehouses in small holder farm areas.
88.   Planning should not be centralised and whenever possible involve all levels and
layers of beneficiaries to enable transparency and acceptability.
89.   Since the effect of the drought was so pervasive and severe throughout the
country, project design for the emergency food relief component should be targeted not



Annex B
only at the needy households in the communal and resettlement areas , but households in
the urban, small and large scale commercial areas.
90.   Emergency procurement procedures need to be more carefully designed and fully
articulated at appraisal stage. Implementors should be trained to use guidelines at the
beginning of project implementation to facilitate procurement of emergency inputs.
91.   The Government Tender Board should be requested to process emergency tenders
on their own instead of mixing them with other tenders. This will facilitate quick
processing of the tenders and timely delivery of services.
92.  It is recommended that in future MOF should involve other interested ministries
when preparing loan agreements.
K. RECOMMENDATIONS
93.   There is need to strengthen the strategic grain reserve and improve on the early
warning system on food security together with an inbuilt feedback system to ensure that
warnings on the depletion of the grain reserves are heeded.
94.   As drought has major adverse effects on the growth of the economy, there is need
to integrate drought preparedness in development plans. This can be done by
incorporating data on environmental impact assessment and other socio economic
indicators. The physical construction of dams, boreholes and wells alone will not be
effective unless other measures e.g. the cultivation of suitable crops for different natural
regions, prevention of environmental degradation are included in the normal development
plans/programmes. Engineering input is needed in any future emergency construction of
dams, boreholes and wells to avoid environmental degradation.
95.   There is need to establish an active, high level permanent administrative structure
with clear cut roles and divisions of responsibility and full accountability to avoid
duplication and overlapping of functions, that is empowered to coordinate implementing
agencies' response to future emergencies. There is need to strengthen the capacity of
implementing agencies to enable them to prepare effectively for long term emergency
preparedness and mitigation measures through extensive training of staff at all levels.
96.  In an emergency drought situation, to facilitate the implementation of project
activities, Government should provide adequate budgetary allocations. To do this
effectively, financial allocations for other major projects/programmes may have to be cut
to enable adequate funds available for drought relief purposes.
97.   Government should improve the coordination of donor and NGO activities to
avoid duplication of effort and ensure optimum use of the available limited resources.
Policy guidelines should be discussed with all parties concerned to enhance transparency.
The needs of the country, provinces and districts should form the basis for donor and



Annex B
NGO assistance. Government and not WB should take a lead in the co-ordination of
donors and NGOs. In order for Government to take a leading role in donor coordination,
its capacity need to be strengthened.
L. COMMENTS ON THE WB IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT3
98.   Although Part I and Part III of the Implementation Completion Report prepared
by the WB presents a fair reflection on the perforrnance of the project, the following
observations have been noted:-
Page 20; Paragraph 6
The statement that 'the MLAWD failed to make decisions about the scope of the
programme was evidenced by their failure to present a comprehensi've implementation
and financial plan to the MOF at the time of the finalization of the 1992/93 budget', is an
unfair statement since the programme proposal was submitted to MOF in May 1992. All
financial requirements had been based on the ruling prices at that time. There was no
way the MLAWD could have given a comprehensive implementation plan i.e. names of
input suppliers, delivery starting and completion dates etc, before going to tender.
Governnent procedures require implementing agencies to go to tender after they have
been advised by Treasury in writing about the availability of funds.
Page 20; Paragraph 7
It is not correct to state that the late procurement of imported inputs resulted from
Government's unfamiliarity "with the Bank's procurement procedures coupled with
inadequate procurement planning". In fact, the late procurement of imported inputs was
caused by the WB itself. Tenders submitted to the Bank under the ICB procedures took a
very long time to be approved by the Bank. The WB insisted on approving every
decision taken by the implementing agencies without which no payment could be made.
Such deliberate actions by the Bank obviously resulted in procurement delays and late
arrival of imported inputs such as fertilizer which arrived in Zimbabwe in March 1993,
well after the planting season.
Page 26; Paragraph 30
It is misleading to state that although the commercial farmers and large scale estates had
initially agreed to use their tractors to provide contract services for the tillage programme,
Government failed to follow up on the offer since there was no budgetary provision
made. In fact, the private sector withdrew from the above programme when it became
clear that the services would be provided freely to farmers.
3  Actually on the basis of the draft PCR which was superceded by the final ICR.



Annex B
Annex 1
Team Members
Mr F B Simango (Chairman)             NEPC
Mr N S M Mudzinganyama (Secretariat)   NEPC
Mr A Musindo(Secretariat)             NEPC
Mr S A Soko                           MPSLSW
Mr J Madzivanyika                     MLGRUD
Mr J T Mutamiri                       MLGRUD
Mr S K Manyasha                       MLGRUD
Mr V Choga                            DWD
Mr S De Abrew                         DWD
Ms E Zhande                           MOTE
Ms D Shamu                            MOTE
Mr C T Mzezewa                        MOTE
Mr J Chikanda                         MLAWD
Mr R Muzamhindo                       DDF
Mr N Chatora                          DDF
Mr C K Mutombo                        DDF
Mr R J Chitsiko                       AGRITEX
Mr E Chidenga                         AGRITEX
Mrs J R Mutamba                       MOHCW
Mr Makuwaza                           MOF



Annex B
Annex 2
Literature Review
Letter of Emergency Drought Policy (LEDP) prepared by the Government in June 1992;
The Credit Agreement;
MPSLSW's report on a review of the implementation of the drought relief Progamme
held at Kadoma Ranch Hotel in April 1993;
Report on the 1992 drought disaster produced in August 1993 by the Secretariat of the
drought relief- Office of the Vice President;
Carol B. Thompson (1993), "Drought management strategies in Southern Africa: From
relief through rehabilitation to vulnerability reduction", study done for the United Nations
Children's Fund (UNICEF);
WB Technical Annex to the Memorandum and Recommendations of the President of
IDA on a proposed credit, 04 June 1992.
Zimbabwe: The Drought Relief and Recovery Programme 1992/93
President R. G. Mugabe's Drought Assessment Tours 1992-93.



Annex B
Table 1: Details of the National Drought Relief Food Distribution
Month       Total        Tonnage        Tonnage    Beneficiaries  Pop fed as a
Applicants    Allocated    Distributed                    % of total
review
1992
Jan        2,119,615       13,990         9,395         873,118         42%
Feb        2,351,027        15,329       10,919        1,110,724        48%
Mar        2,412,167        14,098       10,253        1,024,009        43%
Apr        2,846,190       20,174        13,886        1,510,040        54%
May        3,526,758       23,592        16,982        1,519,131        48%
June       4,040,097       29,232        13,096        1,256,991        65%
July       4,477,718       66,737        49,577        3,476,878        75%
Aug        4,707,103       25,328        25,529        2,340,547        54%
Sept       5,158,586       29,814        27,975        4,571,591        96%
Oct        5,397,435       30,000        27,822        4,967,315        90%
Nov        5,961,840       30,000        29,308        5,030,441        90%
Dec        5,329,434       30,000        28,812        4,888,199        91%
1993
|Jan        5,157,450       43,360       37,133        4,828,201        94%
|Feb        5,057,319       46,666       37,133        4,616,322        91%
XMar        4,927,523       47,952       49,007        4,575,348        93%
Source: MPSLSW
Table 2: Water Rehabilitation and Drilling Component.
National Progress Summary as at End of September 1994
Activity                     Targets            Achievements             Balance
Borehole Siting                 1200                  1152                  48
Borehole Drilling               1200                   939                 261
Pump Installation
:Existing Boreholes             700                    700                 Nil
New Boreholes                   730                    246                 484
Piped Scheme                     190                    52                 138
Rehabilitation
Well Deepening                  1900                  1523                 377
Handpump                        1500                  1269                 231
Rehabilitation
Hydrofracturing                                         5 5
Source: District Development Fund



Annex C
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ANALYSIS
Sector/Sub Sector                   No. of Tcnders              Est. Value of Tenders (USSm)             No. of Contracts               Value of Contracts (US$m)
ICB       Other       Total        ICB       Other       Total       ICB    rOther          Total        ICB      Other         Total
WATERINAC
- Drilling                                 5          2           7       19.00        2.15      21.15          13            I        18       11.33        2.39       13.61
- Spares                                   2          6           8        2.00        1.35       3.35           2          6           8        4.06        1.75        5.79
- Other                                    2          5           7        5.50        1.60       7.10           2          5           7        4.75        1.78        6.53
Sub Total                                  9         13          22       26.50        5.10      31.60          17          16         33       20.14        5.90      26.04
AGRICULTURE
- CMB                                     4           2           6        7.50        0.20       7.70           7          2           9        5.76        0.32        6.08
- Seed & Fertilizer                        I          1           2       12.50        3.70      16.20           3           1          4       10.61        3.45       14.06
- Livestock                                2           -          2        6.68           -       6.68           8                      8        3.95           -        3.58
Sub Total                                  7          3          10       26.68        3.90      30.58          18          3          2 1      19.95        3.77       23.72
POWER
- Electricity Imports                      -T         21          2           -       30.00      30.00           -          21          2 |                 27.60       27.60
- SpareParts                     |         3  _     _4  __7_        |      7.40       21.21      28.61          12          121        24        4.22       17.56       21.78
Sub Total                                  3|         6|          9        7.40       51.21      58.61          12          14|        26        4.22       45.16       49.38
TRANSPORT
-Petroleum                                 I           -          1       25.00           -      25.00           1           -           1      20.49           -       20.49
- Vehicle Spares                           I           1          2        2.00        1.80       3.80           2          15         17        1 .76        1.35       3.71
SubTotal                                  2            1          3       27.00        1.80      28.80           3          15         18       22.25        1.35       23.60
SOCIAL WELFARE                   |                    3           3 |                  1.05 |      105                       3          3           -        0.54        0.54
TOTAL                                    21          26          47       87.58       63.06     150.64          50          51        101       66.56       56.72      123.28
Notes:          1. Other: LCB, Short List, Sole Source
2. Above excludes Private Sector Procurement
3. Value of contracts data will not necessarily equate to amounts actually disbursed out of credit proceeds
4. Value of contracts given in US$million equivalent at date of contract signature.
NB. A total of 47 tenders were issued under the project giving rise to 102 contracts for goods and services. Experience with ICB suggests significant cost saving on average, i.e. contracts valued
at US$66.5 mn were signed on the basis of tender estimates amounting to US$87.6 mn. A much more significant amount of procurement went on a sole source or negotiated basis than
anticipated at appraisal - a total of USS48.6 mn. This was nearly all due to the addition of the power sector component amounting to US$49 mn about one third of the credit amount.



Annex C
ZIMBABWE
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY AND MITIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 2399-ZIM)
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Sector                    Original Allocation      Revised Allocation     Final Allocation
(USS million)           (US$ million)         (US$ million)
September 1992           October 1992            July 1995
1. Water
- Public Sector                                     26.00                   23.00                18.22
- Private Sector
* Services                                          10.00                   10.00                 5.49
* Equipment                                          6.00                    6.00                 0.55
2.  Transport (Spares)
- CMED                                               4.00                    4.00                 3.66
- Private Sector                                     4.00                    4.00                 1.56
3.  Petroleum                                           30.00                   25.00                16.27
4.  Food-for-Work                                        4.20                    4.20                 0.63
5.  Agriculture
- Crop Packs                                        37.10                   24.20                19.53
* Seed (imports)                                                           (3.70)               (3.78)
* Fertilizer (imports)                                                    (12.50)               (8.62)
* Chemicals
* Local inputs                                                             (8.00)               (7.13)
- Tractors & Spares
* DDF                                                6.25                    6.25                 3.52
* Private Sector                                     8.50                    8.25                 2.17
- Livestock                                          4.35                    4.35                 0.53
- Cotton Scheme (imports)                            5.70                    5.70                 4.00
- Veterinary drugs                                   3.90                    3.90                 2.97
6.  Power                                                                       20.90
- Electricity imports                                                                            27.03
- Spares                                                                                         20.37
- Generators
TOTAL                                                  150.00                  150.00               126.50
Unallocated                                                                                      23.50
NB. No formal a priori allocation of funds was agreed - a positive list of eligible imports was provided
for in the credit agreement instead. To facilitate project management, a tentative schedule for the
utilization of funds was drawn up in September 1992 as above. This was revised principally to allow
for the power sector component in October 1992.



Annex D
LIST OF REPORTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Africa Recovery No. 9 August 1993 (Carole Collins) - "Briefing Paper: Famine
Defeated - Southern Africa, UN win battle against the drought".
2.    Chidawanyika, Caesar: "Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project -
Agricultural Recovery Component", Working Paper.
3.    Drought Emergency in Southern Africa (DESA) - "Consolidated UN-SADC
Appeal" dated May 1992.
4.    Department of Social Welfare (C. Tobaiwa) - "Report on the Kadoma Review
Meeting on the Drought Relief Program, April 1-2 1993".
5.    Department of Veterinary Services (W. Madzima) - "Proposals for a Drought
Recovery Program for Livestock in Communal Areas of Zimbabwe" dated
January 29 1993.
6.    HABITAT (K. Wekwete) - "Zimbabwe Urban In-Migration Study/Plan" dated
October 30 1992.
7.    Hammar, Amanda - "Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project -
Water Component", Working Paper
S.    Michael Hicks - "Emergency Drought Recovery Credit - Import Corridor
Capacities and Transport Requirements" dated April 20 1992
9.    Logistics Advisory Centre - "Assessment of the Response to the 1991/92 Drought
in the SADC Region" dated July 1993.
10.   Ministry of Lands, Agriculture and Water Development (J Mushauri and
Associates) - "Evaluation of the 1992 Zimbabwe Agricultural Sector Drought
Recovery Program - Lessons and Recommendations for Future Drought
Mitigation in the Agricultural Sector" dated October 1993.
11.   National Action Committee for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation - "Emergency
Water Plan for Drought Situation in Zimbabwe" dated April 16 1992.
12.   National Civil Protection Coordination Committee (NCPCC) - "Zimbabwe: The
Drought Relief and Recovery Program 1992/93" dated November 1993.
13.   Overseas Development Institute (C. Benson and E. Clay) - "The Impact of
Drought on Sub Saharan African Economies: A Preliminary Examination" dated
June 14, 1994.



Annex D
14.   Overseas Development Institute (C. Benson) - "Drought and Macroeconomic
Performance: A Comparative Analysis of Six Sub Saharan African Economies"
dated June 14, 1994.
15.   SADC - "Drought Management Workshops in Southern Africa - Report of the
Regional Drought Management Workshop September 13-16 1993: Volume I
Workshop Proceedings".
16.   SADC (C. Tobaiwa, C. Thompson) - "Regional Drought Management Workshop
September 13-16 1993 - Draft Country Assessment Paper: Zimbabwe".
17.   Town Engineers' Forum/IWSD - "Workshop on Urban Water Conservation
Proceedings", Victoria Falls June 22-23 1994.
18.   Training Centre for Water and Sanitation (P. Taylor, N. Mudege) - "Emergency
Drought Relief Programs in Zimbabwe - Lessons from Past Experience" dated
April 1992.
19.   UNDP (Marco Borsotti) - "Drought Relief Program in Zimbabwe - Critical
Considerations on its Implementation: Lessons Learnt and Future Steps" dated
May 25 1993.
20.   UNICEF (Richard Ewbank) - "An Evaluation of the Child Supplementary
Feeding Program" dated 1993.
21.   UNICEF (C. Thompson) - "Drought Management Strategies in Southern Africa:
From Relief Through Rehabilitation to Vulnerability Reduction" dated February
1993.
22.   WFP - "Emergency operation in Southern Africa during the drought of 1992-93",
report of evaluation mission October 5 to November 17, 1993, dated February
1994.
23.   WFP (Deborah Hicks) - "Evaluation of the Zimbabwe Drought Relief Program
1992/93: The Role of Household Level Responses and Decentralized Decision
Making" dated June 7 1993.
24.   Zimbabwe Government - Civil Protection Act No. 5 of 1989.
NB. This represents a partial listing of reports produced on the 1991/92 drought
experience. Copies of all these reports have been placed in the project file.






_                 P Y  <    =-sMALAWI
ZAMBIA                    ) '                                                      tin
/ 6 ~ \,,/ >5,0 _ O >                      Cohirundu                                                                               A CD
I                                                        Muzeb)ukoel4/03i4fie   !  X    McIkuti
HAMIBIA \   ZIMBABWE                                                                    Konb auruve   Cent-
BOTSWANA    '6        /                                                                                                Mhangura                                           - Mt.Da rwr7 
SOUTH -/VKarol                                                                                                                                 tDri                                           To
j  AFRICA                                               '                                                                                                                                   f iX t   c:   O  ptvu.wi  rg .A/tyre
2~~~~~~~                                                    O~~~~~~~~~~w~,9urwi
26 I                                                                                                  / >.      Raffingaangora    Bindur                         r
26-    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~6>MiaeOl Shamna
CHINHOYI .           Banket t               t                         Mto
T. M.I.bezl                                                                                                                                                            2  Mutaoka
f/Ph                                                                     ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TreIlwh.   /I rh
>40 uT. Ch...                          /o  Bingo                                                                       i\0.                     /        )            t
i-I                                               *                                                                      DarweedaI1e>6-t-t   L           -    -     - 1D
'Kct                                                                                                                                 _ /  ,W.nZcr  ,ARARE
&   \   tt>\    '  ~~~~~~~~~~~'                             Gokwe ~~~~~~Chegutu  _,+ ro/c;                                                    
Kado   ~           Uadn
dn~  Hwange  ~  Kadama           (           Maronderc              Jusclole
1.6  Dete~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~Rusape
iv1,,    ')       Dete<>, \\5i~jhorsholo                                                         t                                         
*                            >6               8   Lupone                                              Kwekwe                                                                     )
'-9 \+ o! ~~~~~~~~~~Redcliff ,<Mua/MTQ     ,.,
., 6    ~                   Nkayi                                   __    hVi
''   \  GWERU j<   LalapanziSM             u       
Chalsworth           O                                  z
Tsholotshoa "                                                          Shvu    ugi' /
ZIMBABWE   KJa                                                         >              7 Mashcaa                                                        Ny/IcY
Y~~~~'                    I'W                    -                                                                2
BULAWAYO,>t                                                                                 Bikita         ,
MAJOR STATE ROADS                            Plumtree                                     Zishavane                                                                             
RAILROADS                            Fuc 'r                      FigIree                                                                                                 9          T<,  - -
MAJOR RIVERS                             To  *                                  / |                                                       Jerera                   6
*      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                 )                                       '\"
*INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT                                                                               |-.; \_/\tTriongle *)
t      OTHER AIRPORTS                                                                                                                                   0     N Gndi
     PROVINCE CAPITALS                                     .                                                           M        i '
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                              '                       /                                         A
--   -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                   j                                              '/The  boundaries, colars,
/                               ~~~~~~~~~denaininatians and  any
ather n format/an shown
/6'                                             ani ,;y  ,/  o . this map  do  not
>22                  \       /7                               t,  /               nmpiy, onl the  part of
>  22'                                                                                                         \         ^       \ /4                                    ;                 The 9World  Bannk Group,        itB
KILOMETERS   0   50  05  /50   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~any judgment an the legal'6
r...t~~"~~S. -iJ   BeitbricdgeF.MP.                                         status af any  territory,
. \      opuC       ar any  endorsement             a'
la                 MiLES u                   5s 5o              T0                                                          k                                                              or acceptance of such o
I                          Er~~~~~~ein-ri                                                       boundanes









IMAGING
Report No:        1'19
Type: ICR



