Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2399 ZIM
        (Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 30, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2399 ZIM
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a Letter of Emergency
Drought Policy dated June 2, 1992, from the Borrower describing a
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to assist in
the economic recovery caused by the drought in the territory of the
Borrower (the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program and requesting assistance from the
Association in the financing of urgently needed imports required
during such execution;
      WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS (C) the Borrower and the Government of the Kingdom of
Norway (Norway) intend to enter into an agreement (the Norwegian
Grant Agreement) for the purpose of making available to the Borrower
Page  2
a grant equivalent to one million dollars ($1,000,000) (the
Norwegian Grant) to assist in financing urgently needed technical
advisory activities under the Project and, for that purpose, Norway
has requested and the Association has agreed to administer the
Norwegian Grant pursuant to the provisions of an Agreement to be
entered into between Norway and the Association and a Development
Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Association, as Administrator on behalf of Norway;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (b)   "Economic Policy Reform Programme" means the Borrower's
economic policy reform program adopted on January 28, 1991.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred and nine million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 109,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank through the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1994 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
Page  3
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2002 and ending March 15, 2027. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2012 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
Page  4
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain, until the
completion of the Project, the National Civil Protection
Coordination Committee which shall be responsible for the general
oversight of the Program.
      Section 3.04. Until the completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall continue to maintain the procurement units existing
within its Project executing agencies which shall be responsible for
undertaking procurement under the Project.
      Section 3.05 (a) Without limitation or restriction on the
provisions of Section 3.01, the Borrower and the Association, at the
request of either party, shall exchange views on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Program, including the Project.
The first such exchange of views shall take place not later than
four months after the Effective Date.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than nine
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
Page  5
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
            (i)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                   proceeds of the Norway Grant made to the
                   Borrower for the financing of part of the
                   Program shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                   terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
                   terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such
                   suspension, cancellation or termination is not
                   caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                   any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                   (ii) adequate funds for the activities to be
                   financed are available to the Borrower from
                   other sources on terms and conditions consistent
                   with the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.
      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) (i) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso in paragraph (a)
(ii) of that Section.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
      Section 5.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance, Economic
Planning and Development of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Senior Secretary
            Ministry of Finance, Economic
              Planning and Development
Page  6
            Private Bag 7705
            Causeway, Harare
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MINFIN                    MINFIN 22141 ZW
                   Harare                    Zimbabwe
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                               82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
                   By /s/ Elisha Mushayakarara
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
     Eligible Imports        109,500,000        100% of foreign
     required for the                           expenditures
     Project as specified
     in Schedule 4 to
     the Development
     Credit Agreement
                             ___________
         TOTAL               109,500,000
                             ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
Page  7
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 21,000,000, may be made on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
April 1, 1992; and
      (b)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to $30,000,000 for petroleum products.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower: (i)
in the alleviation of the impact of the drought in the territory of
the Borrower by restoring and enhancing the Borrower's productive
capacity; (ii) in minimizing the effect of the drought on its
Economic Policy Reform Programme; and (iii) in the development of
measures for the mitigation of any future droughts.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
      Carrying out a program for the assurance of the supply of
water to the rural and urban areas, including the rehabilitation of
water points and systems and the drilling of new boreholes.
Part B:
      Carrying out a program designed to assist the recovery of the
agricultural sector from the impact of the drought including the
provisions of crop packs to smallholder farmers.
Part C:
      Carrying out the Borrower's food-for-work program and public
works program.
Part D:
      Carrying out a program for the rehabilitation of the public
and private transport fleet to assist in the distribution of goods
under the Program.
Part E:
1.    Provision of assistance to the National Coordinating Unit of
the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government and other project
implementation agencies in the execution and monitoring of the
Project.
2.    Development of a strategy for urban water conservation.
3.    Designing of a system to improve the Borrower's response to
natural emergencies, including development of a sectoral and
coordinated multi-sectoral strategies for emergency response as well
as contingency plans.
4.    Carrying out of a drought mitigation study.
5.    Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower's institutions in
the agricultural sector.
Page  8
6.    Development of a contingency plan for accelerated urban in
migration, including the potential sources of required financing.
7.    Provision of assistance to the Borrower's Department of Social
Welfare for the management, monitoring, accounting, auditing and
training related to Part C of the Project.
8.    Provision of assistance to the Borrower's Ministry of Health
in the planning, logistics and institutional surveillance to support
its supplementary feeding program.
                             *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods (agricultural
inputs, petroleum products, construction materials, vehicles and
spare parts, and water works equipment) shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following
modifications:
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
      "2.8 Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:
            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Forum, Business Edition; or
           (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international
                  circulation; or
          (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."
      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."
      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.    Contracts for goods shall be grouped to the maximum extent
practicable for the purposes of bidding and procurement.
3.    Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by
Page  9
a third party inspection firm.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Geographically distinct crop seeds shall be procured on the
basis of an evaluation and comparison of bids from at least three
qualified suppliers or under other procedures satisfactory to the
Association provided, however, that the aggregate amount of such
contracts shall not exceed $4,900,000 equivalent.
2.    Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids of at least three qualified suppliers from at
least two countries eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance
with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.    Proprietary equipment and spare parts and standardized
equipment shall be procured on a negotiated basis from the original
manufacturers or authorized representatives, on terms satisfactory
to the Association provided, however, that the aggregate amount of
such contracts shall not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
Part C:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
                           SCHEDULE 4
              List of Eligible Imports to be Financed
                         under the Credit
Petroleum Products
      petroleum products
Vehicles
      trucks (5 tons and above)
      pickup trucks
      motorbikes
Page  10
      tractors
      agricultural equipment
Spares
      trucks
      motorbikes
      tractors
      agricultural equipment
Equipment
      pumps, pipes and related equipment for water works
      rehabilitation
      microcomputers, software and related equipment
Construction materials
      emergency water rehabilitation
      emergency food-for-work program
      public works
      agricultural recovery
Agricultural Inputs
      seed
      fertilizer
      chemicals
      livestock
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means the Category set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
Page  11
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the eligible Category, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Category, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
Page  12
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
