Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13690-KZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKESTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
MAY 1, 1995
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(per US$)
September 1994   50 Tenge
December 1994    54 Tenge
February 1995 = 60 Tenge
April 1995        61 Tenge
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(SI, "Metric System")
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CC             Component Coordinator
CEE            Central and Eastem Europe
DOE            Department of Employment
ECA            Europe and Central Asia
EF             Employment Fund
EO             Employment Office
ES             Employment Service
FSU            Former Soviet Union
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Agency
IMF            International Monetary Fund
IS             International Shopping
LIB            Limited International Bidding
MIS            Management Information System
MO             Model Office
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOL            Ministry of Labor
NS             National Shopping
OED            Operations and Evaluation Department
PA             Project Account
PCC            Project Coordination Council
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PF             Pension Fund
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
PTU            Vocational Training School
SA             Special Account
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
STF            Systemic Transformation Facility
TA             Technical Assistance
TAG            Technical Advisory Group
TES            Temporary Employment Scheme
UB             Unemployment Benefit
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
WP             Work Program
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT'
CONTENTS
LOAN  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY    ......................................    i
I. INTRODUCTION ..........................                                                                                          1
A.  Economic and Sectoral Background  ................................   1
The Labor Market   ........................................    1
Employment Service  .......................................   2
Unemployment Benefits  .....................................   3
Training and Retraining  .....................................   3
Temporary  Employment Schemes  ...............................   4
Social Protection and Social Services .............................   4
Divestiture of Social Assets ...................................    5
B.  Government's Reform  Strategy  ...................................    6
C.  The Bank's Role and Assistance Strategy  .............................   7
D.  Donor Coordination  ..........................................    8
11. LESSONS FROM RECENT EXPERIENCE ...............................                                                                  9
A.  Employment Services  .........................................   9
B.  Social Asset Divestiture   .......................................   9
C.  Municipal Development Projects  .................................    10
D.  Institutional Development and Financial Management ....................    10
IIT. THE PROJECT ..........................                                                                                        11
A.  Rationale for Bank Involvement   .................................    11
B.  Sectoral Reforms  ...........................................    11
C.  Project Objectives  ......                  ................                       ..................                11
D.  Project Description   .........................................    12
E.  Detailed Features ...........................................    12
Employment Service Component   ..............................    12
Institutional Strengthening    .............................    12
Unemployment Benefits and Service Delivery   .................    14
1/
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in November/December 1994. The project team comprised: Betty Hanan
(Mission Leader), Michael Mills (Principal Economist), Elena Kotova (Private Sector Specialist), Philip O'Keefe (Economist), Alan Abrahart
(Employment Service Specialist), Gennady Pilch (Legal Counsel), Alison Evans and Thomas O'Brien (Young Professionals), and Bonaventure
Mbida-Essama, and Ronald Venezia (Consultants). Additional contributors included: Lynette Wardle and Michael Wheelahan (Consultants).
The Peer Reviewers are: Jane Armitage (ESP) and A. Hamer (EA2EU). Staff Assistance was provided by Annie Minofu. Messrs. Robert
Liebenthal and Yukon Huang are the managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for the operation.



Staff Training  and  Development  ..........................                                                        16
Pilot Programs for Training and Retraining of the Unemployed  ... ...   17
Social Services Component .............................  18
Social Services Support   ...............................                                                           18
Institutional Support   .................................                                                          22
IV. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS  .... ........ .  .  .  .  .   .  25
A.  Project Costs   ..........  ..  .                         .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..    .  25
Summary  of Project Costs    ........  .                          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  25
Basis of Cost Estimates   ........  .                         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  25
Contingency  Allowances    ........  .                          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  26
Foreign  Exchange Component  ................................                                                                  26
Project Financing   ........................................                                                                   26
Recurrent Costs Implications  of the  Project  ........................                                                        27
B.  Procurement  ..............................................                                                                            27
C. Disbursements  .............................................                                                                             31
Special Account  .........................................                                                                      33
D.  Project Accounts, Budgets and  Audits    .............................                                                                 34
Accounts and  Audits   ......................................                                                                  34
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ........ ..                                                                            ............  36
A.  Overall Project Management and  Implementation    ......................    36
Project Coordination  Unit ...................................                                                                 36
Project Coordinating  Council .................................                                                                36
B.  Implementation  of Components  ..................................                                                                      37
Employment Service   ......................................                                                                    37
Social Services Component  ..................................                                                                  38
Project Reporting  and  Evaluation   ..............................                                                            38
Bank  Supervision   ........................................                                                                   39
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS  ...........                                                      ..................   40
A.  Benefits    ................................................                                                                           40
B.  Risks   ................                                         .................................                                     40
C. Environmental Impact . ............................... 40
VII. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION  .................  41



Annexes
1.    Policy Statement on Social Asset Divestiture and Unemployment
2.    Detailed Features of the Employment Service Component
2A.   Short to Medium-term Labor Market Issues
2B.   Gender-targeted Training
2C.   Impacts of Expenditure and Revenue Patterns on the Employment Fund
2D.   Organizational Charts of Ministry of Labor
and Department of Employment
3.    Detailed Features of the Social Services Component
3A.   Inventory of Social Assets for South Kazakhstan
and Pavlodar Oblasts
3B.   Rationalization Plans for Selected Raions
3C.   Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Services Component
3D.   Flow of Funds from the Central to the Oblast and Raion Budgets
4.    Summary of Technical Assistance and Training
4A.   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Staff and Component Coordinators
5.    Implementation Mechanisms
6.    Project Coordinating Unit
7.    Performance Monitoring Indicators
8.    Summary Cost Tables
9.    Implementation Schedule
10.   Supervision Plan
11.   Estimated IBRD Disbursements
12.   Detailed Procurement Arrangements
Documents Available in the Project File
1.    Employment Services Component Preparation Report
2.    Social Services Component Preparation Report
3.    Socio-economic situation in Kazakhstan
4.    Financial Projections and Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanisms
5.    Implementation Issues in Health Care (Pavlodar Oblast)
6.'   Implementation Issues in Health Care (South Kazakhstan Oblast)
7.    Implementation Issues in Kindergartens (Pavlodar and South Kazakhstan Oblasts)
8.    Summary Visits to Oblasts
9.    Detailed Cost Tables
Maps:        IBRD No. 26466 and 26467






REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Kazakhstan
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Labor
Oblast governments of South Kazakhstan and Paviodar Oblasts
City governments of Shymkent, Kentau, Lenger, Pavlodar, and Aksu
Poverty Category:   Program of Targeted Interventions. Because the unemployed includes a greater
proportion of poor people than in the population at large, and the poor has less
access to private social facilities, their benefit under the project would be
substantially larger than their proportion in the overall population.
Amount:             US$ 41.1 million
Terms:              17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the World Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Project Objectives:   The project seeks to assist the Borrower to: (a) develop the capacity of the
Employment Service in the Department of Employment of the Ministry of Labor
to manage the expected increase in the number of registered unemployed and
attendant benefit claims following the restructuring and privatization of
enterprises; and (b) ensure continued delivery of essential social services, by
promoting orderly divestiture of social assets from enterprises, and efficient
management by municipalities of a unified system of social services. The project
would be implemented with a view to determining suitable models for the design
and implementation of a comprehensive national strategy for the divestiture of
enterprise social assets, thereby removing obstacles to restructuring, and
enhancing the competitiveness of enterprises. The project would provide the
institutional underpinning for the implementation of social policies supported by
the SAL.
Project Description:  The project has two main components: an Employment Service Component, to
be implemented at both the national and regional levels; and a Social Services
Component, to be implemented in South Kazakhstan and Pavlodar oblasts.
The Employment Service Component seeks to strengthen the institutional
capacity of the ES to register the unemployed and calculate and pay
unemployment benefits; provide a more effective service to unemployed job
seekers; and analyze labor markets and formulate labor market policies. It will
also develop a sharper focus for training and retraining of the unemployed,
particularly women and youth, through orienting the work of the ES towards
promoting demand-driven training and through a greater use of external training



Page ii                                                               Loan and Project Summary
providers.  Financing under this component will support:  (a) institutional
strengthening of the ES; (b) development and implementation of a simplified
unemployment benefit (UB) system; (c) training and development of staff; and
(d) a pilot program in South Kazakhstan and Pavlodar oblasts and Almaty to
strengthen counselling and training of the unemployed.
The Social Services Component will facilitate the transfer of essential social
services from restructuring enterprises to local governments, and rationalize
management of all basic social services in five selected cities -- South
Kazakhstan Oblast: Shymkent City, Kentau, Lenger; and Pavlodar Oblast:
Pavlodar City, and Aksu.  Local social service budget management will be
reformed and social assistance targeting improved.  While many socially
important facilities are run by the enterprises, the project will focus only on basic
social services such as health care and early education, which are critical
elements of the social safety net. To this end, the project will finance modest
rehabilitation and upgrading of, and purchases of critical equipment and supplies
for, facilities that are to be sustained over the long run, including: health
(rehabilitation of hospitals and primary health care facilities and purchases of
essential medical equipment, vaccines, drugs, and supplies), and (b) education
(rehabilitation of kindergartens and purchases of books and training materials).
Incremental recurrent costs will be financed for the divested facilities on a
declining basis, with counterpart contributions from the Governmenlt
Benefits:             The policy making capacity of the Employment Service will be improved, and
the basis laid for a program of social protection for retrenched workers. The
provision of an effective social safety net would remove constraints on labor
mobility and improve public support for the Government's economic strategy.
Enterprise restructuring will be facilitated in the selected cities by the orderly
divestiture of social services. The project will foster rationalization of local
social service budget management and improve public social investment programs
in the selected cities. Improvements in the cost effectiveness of local social
expenditure will have a net positive impact on the central budget, reducilng the
need for increased budgetary allocations resulting from divestiture, while
allowing local governments to operate additional divested social services.
Experience with the rationalization programs in the two oblasts would facilitate
replication/improvement of the approach subsequently throughout the country.
Risks:                In a newly created country undergoing fundamental economic transformation,
there is an inevitable risk of policy changes and implementation delays. The
project faces five main risks: (i) the Government's limited experience with Bank-
financed projects and overall limited administrative capacity; (ii) the complexity
of the issues to be addressed; (iii) introduction of user fees for health services
may be delayed because it requires changes in legislation; (iv) the Government
may find it difficult to sustain the level of management, coordination, and
budgetary effort necessary to succeed in the divestiture process; and (v) delays
in implementing policy reformns may jeopardize project implementation. The
project will help offset these risks by: putting in place strong institutional
arrangements; implementing the Social Services Component in oblasts/cities



Loan and Project Sunmuary                                                             Page iii
where the local administrations are committed to carrying out structural changes
in the social sector, through rationalization of social service expenditures;
providing management support and training for the implementation of
rationalization plans, including building a national capacity through the training
of financial staff both at the central and oblast/city level; and providing technical
assistance to the ES to implement improved organizational procedures prior to
project start-up.



Page iv                                                                                   Loan and Project Summamy
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ Million)
. ... ........
Local   Foreign         Thta          %  Foreign           %  Total
- .... .....      Exchange           Base Costs
..   -.:: !!. .. ! ! ....
Employment Service                              6.2          9.6      .5..                61                  32
Social Services                                17.8         13.4   --S. 31,               43                  63
Coordination and Monitoring                     0.3          2.0   tl0--:2-,3t            87                    5
X,f.0.. E   -... - . f.E. : ..   ,: ... ..
Total Base Costs                          24.3         25.0 .-;t-;49,39-              51                 100
.  E ... ..iE .  -: .Ei I .: . .....
Physical Contingencies                      0.5         1.9   :.:--A                  79
Price Contingencies'                        1.6         1.4          30  47
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS2                           26.4    28.3                                 7 -7  52
Price contingencies are based on standard inflation estimates (para 4.4). Physical contingencies have been
e stimated at 10% for civil works, equipment, supplies and materials and 5% for training.
21Costs do not include duties and taxes as expenditures under the project would be tax exempt.
Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local       Foreign   -        a.l         %  Foreign         %  Total
ft;- :  -      Exchange   Project Costs
Governernen  of Kazakhstan                      8.7          0.0   S:0        -.7 --.0                         16
Beneficiaries                                   4.9          0.0     ... .9                    0                9
i- ..-E : .   ......,0.   ..-.- -.
IBRD                                           12.8        28.3          411                 69               75
S 2                          .   .     . .   . . . . . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . . . .
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            26.4    28.3    54.1                           52              100
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
(US$ miilion)
Bank Fiscal Year                      FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99 FY00 FY01 FY02
Annual                                 2.0      4.6       6.5      9.4      10.3       6.6       1.7
Cumulative                             2.0      6.6      13.1    22.5    32.8         39.4    41.1



I. INTRODUCTION
A. Econonmic and Sectoral Background
1.1        At independence in 1992, Kazakhstan inherited a reasonably well-developed industrial base.
Industry, dominated by mining and processing activities, accounted for about 40%  of GDP and
agriculture 34%. Per capita GNP was estimated at US$1,690. However, the economy was characterized
by inefficiencies common throughout the FSU, including distorted price structures and soft budget
constraints on enterprises. Trade was heavily dependent on exchanges with other FSU republics,
especially Russia, which in 1991 accounted for 91 % of exports and 88% of imports.
1.2        MIedium and long-term prospects for economic growth are good, largely due to the country's
extensive natural resource base. However, since independence the economic situation in the country has
deteriorated sharply. GDP declined by 15% per annum in 1992 and by 25% in 1994. During 1994, the
decline was exacerbated by a severe winter, and continuing difficulties over oil trade with Russia. Output
suffered from a steep fall in investment expenditures, depressed consumption levels, and cutbacks in
defense outlays. The monthly inflation accelerated throughout 1993 and early 1994, to peak at 35 percent
monthly during the second quarter of 1994. It has declined sharply since, to 5 percent a month by March
1995. This has been in response to the tightening of monetary policy, which followed the inter-enterprise
arrears refinancing of April 1994. In addition, the level of inter-enterprise arrears rose rapidly, reaching
an amount comparable to total outstanding bank credit to enterprises by March 1994. While registered
unemployment has remained low (para 1.5), real average wages fell by 30% in 1992, 7% in 1993, and
an estimated 23% in 1994.
1.3        The Government's reform program progressed well initially, before stalling somewhat in
1993 and the first half of 1994. A new Government tearn appointed in October 1994 and confirmed in
March 1995 has shown greater conmmitment to deepening critical reforms. Enterprise restructuring and
privatization have been important elements of the program, with the adoption of a three-pronged approach
to privatization, embodied in a "National Privatization program for 1993-95." Under the small scale
privatization program (under 200 employees), about 2,900 establishments had been privatized by the end
of 1994, and a further 4,000 have been earnarked for sale by the end of 1995. In the mass privatization
program (for firms with 200 to 5,000 employees), 275 enterprises had been offered for sale by September
1994, of a total of around 2,500 earmarked by the Government. Under the case-by-case privatization
of large scale enterprises, the State Comrnittee on Privatization is planning to issue by June 1995,
consultant tenders for the sale of at least 10 large enterprises through case by case tenders and another
15 during the rest of the year. It is expected that the committee will have finalized, by the end of 1995,
at least 10 major transactions. Overall, privatization in the agricultural sector was proceeding ahead of
schedule as of the fourth quarter of 1994, with 850 state farms privatized or undergoing privatization by
the end of 1994, bringing to 1,455 the total number of state farms that are undergoing or have completed
the privatization process (two thirds of the total number of state farms).
Ihe Labor Market
1.4        Under the Soviet system, employment was guaranteed, and cash wages were low and
relatively compressed. Wages were not related to productivity, resulting in low returns to labor.
Enterprises functioned both as productive units and instruments of state social protection policy. This



Page 2                                                                                 Chapter I
encouraged overstaffing, which is estimated to have been in the range of 20-30 %. In addition, non-cash
income constituted a substantial proportion of labor remuneration: housing, kindergartens, health
facilities, food stores, and other facilities. In 1992, non-cash income was estimated at over 40% of total
labor compensation. This, and other factors such as the propiska residence permit system, resulted in
low geographical mobility of labor.
1.5         As budget constraints on enterprises have increased, the employer response has been to place
workers on unpaid leave or part-time work, resulting in increasing under-employment. As a result of
this practice, open unemployment has remained low. The reluctance to formally retrench workers has
been motivated by a number of factors, including social protection considerations, severance pay
provisions (para 1.9), and employer expectations of resumed output growth in the medium-term.
However, as state credits dry up and increasing numbers of enterprises are privatized, enterprises are
likely to be forced to lay off workers permanently, converting current under-employment to open
unemployment.
1.6         Large output falls since 1990 will combine with other factors to increase open
unemployment, which is estimated to reach 4% by the end of 1995, and around 10% by the end of 19962.
The duration of unemployment is also expected to increase significantly in the medium-tern, as lay-off
rates outstrip absorption in the emerging private sector. These developments will increase the potential
for social dislocation and place new and increasing burdens on the Employment Service (ES).
Employment Service (ES)
1.7         The Ministry of Labor (MOL) is responsible for the operation of the ES through the
Department of Employment (DOE). The ES has offices at the national, oblast (21 offices) and raion (300
offices) levels, with a total full-time staff of approximately 2,650 (or around 3,650, if ancillary and
part-time staff are included). The Republic office sets national policy and distributes guidelines to oblasts
on implementation, in addition to monitoring oblast ES performance. Raion offices are responsible for
delivery of services, with oblast offices providing management support. Oblast offices have an average
of 30 staff, and raion offices between 4 and 18 staff. Staff are allocated on a per capita of population
basis (15:100,000), a norm used in other FSU republics. There have been no attempts to date to relate
staffing levels to the regional unemployment profile. To ensure that staffing levels reflect actual
workloads and the labor market needs of particular locations, a simple staffing formula needs to be
developed (para 3.9) to provide a more flexible method of setting and reviewing staffing levels for each
office. The challenge facing the ES is to reorient its functions from largely data collection on enterprise
vacancies to a range of client-oriented services, including registration and payment of unemployment
benefit (UB), client counseling job information, training and retraining, and temporary employment
schemes (paras 3.12-3.29).
1.8         The ES was established in 1991, and is funded by a 2%  payroll tax3.  Initially, the
Employment Fund (EF) was an extrabudgetary fund, but was absorbed into the budget in 1994. As a
result of agreements under the SAL in April 1995, the EF became independent of the budget. Further,
2/          Estimates are based on projections by ES and Bank staff appraisal teams for this project and the SAL .
3/          Agricultural enterprises and institutions financed direcdy from the state budget have to date been exempted from
contributions.



Chapter I                                                                           Paze 3
its financial administration will be changed and its financial viability enhanced. Low priority activities
(including for any wage subsidies and job creation through credit schemes) have been discontinued. The
use of the EF for non-employment activities has also been discontinued and the expenditures under the
Fund are now being made in accordance with the Republican Programn of Employment and the current
labor market situation; however, the Fund will be used to finalize some expenditures, estimated at 250
million Tenge related to immigration, but this will be completed by the end of 1995. In addition, the
revenue base for the EF will be broadened; the standard rates of contribution by employers will be
extended to the agricultural and budgetary sectors by the end of 1995; and an employee-based
contribution will be introduced over the same time. The levels of both employer and employee
contributions will be determined from time to time, in the light of developments in the labor market.
Unemployment Benefits (UB)
1.9        Unemployment benefits were introduced in 1991, and are financed from the EF. When a
worker is laid off, the employer must pay two months severance pay. After this period, the individual
applies for registration as unemployed. If the application is approved, individuals are entitled to six
months of UB. To date, expenditures on unemployment benefit have been low for a number of reasons,
including the low number of registered unemployed, overly strict procedures for approval of UB
payment, there appears to be an element of embarrassment associated with registering as unemployed and
more particularly with receiving UB. At the end of 1994, 100,000 people were registered as unemployed
or about 1.4% of the labor force. However, estimates of actual unemployment ranged between 450,000
and 550,000 (about 6.1% to 7.5% of the labor force). Up to recently, the level of benefit had been
related to previous earnings and the minimrnum wage (para 3.14).
1.10       The primary function of the ES should be registration of the unemployed, payment of UB,
and counseling and referral of clients to employment opportunities or training. An important aspect of
its reorientation will be to improve the currently low public perception of the role which it can play. This
will require a range of reforms, including revised staff allocation mechanisms, an improved registration
system, training of staff, and refitting of offices. In addition, it will be necessary to encourage measures
such as factory-gate hiring, which could lessen the burden on the ES. In its Letter of Development Policy
for the SAL, the Government recognizes the social effects of the major increase in open unemployment,
which has already begun and which is forecast to accelerate in the months ahead. It further recognizes,
that labor mobility needs to be increased and that workers should move from inefficient activities to new
areas of productivity and economic growth. The Government recognizes that at present, the system of
UB has several weaknesses, i.e. the level of benefits is too low to provide any significant relief for the
unemployed or inducement for employees to accept retrenchment. It further recognizes that the UB
administration system is unduly complicated and the eligibility for unemployment benefits is overly
restrictive. The structure of unemployment benefits also needs to be reconsidered in ways which will
protect those most in need while avoiding work disincentives for other groups. To address this situation,
the Government will carry out a series of reforms, which are to be implemented under this project
(paras 3.14-3.16, 3.28 and Annex 1)
Training and Retraining
1.11       Training and retraining in Kazakhstan are the responsibility of the Republican Center for
Vocational Training within the DOE, which is separate from the ES. In addition, each oblast is
res,> C . i;+ mr retraining the local unemployed population. Training activities are contracted to a range
tf    .      t - ions, including vocational schools, the Department's own training centers, and private



Page 4                                                                            Chapter I
providers. A portion of retraining is still carried out under the multi-party contractual arrangement which
guarantees trainees a job, although such guarantees are becoming increasingly unenforceable. According
to the DOE, during the last quarter of 1994, 70% of those undertaking training found jobs at the end of
the course.
Temporary Employment Schemes (TES)
1.12       In Kazakhstan, any person registered as a jobseeker with the ES can participate in temporary
employment schemes. TES involve a broad range of activities, mostly of a low-skilled nature. During
1993, 11,300 people participated in TES; 47.7% were registered unemployed; 51 % were young persons
below 20 years and 6.2% single mothers and mothers with many children. The number had fallen to
only 4,400 by November 1994. An unemployed person can claim UB or work on TES for a maximum
of 6 months out of every 12. The overall schedule of payment to participants involves a complex
calculation of the average wage in the industry where the worker is placed. The wage paid to participants
in TES cannot be less than the minimum UB plus 15 %.
Social Protection and Social Services
1.13       The system of social protection during the Soviet period offered a wide array of cash and
in-kind benefits, with little targeting of assistance on the basis of need. There was also limited emphasis
on linking individual contributions to the level of benefits. These factors resulted in relatively high
benefit expenditures, e.g. public pension expenditures accounted for around 9.5% of GDP in 1993.
Tightening fiscal constraints since independence have resulted in various reforms, aimed at reining in
social protection expenditures. There have been attempts to target and reduce expenditures on social
protection, e.g. through the removal of food subsidies during 1993 and 1994, and the introduction of
means-testing for family allowances. Real benefit levels have fallen sharply as a result -- pension and
social assistance benefits are estimated to have declined 27% in real terms in 1994, after falling 26% in
1993.
1.14       The entire cash benefit structure has been linked to the minimum wage traditionally.
However, by March 1994, the minimum wage had fallen to only 12% of the officially calculated poverty
line, undermining the social protection function of benefits. This has led to use, on an informal basis of
a simplified food basket for setting some benefits (such as family allowances) and consideration of
reforms in setting of other benefits (such as UB).
1.15       In addition to the benefit system, Kazakhstan - similar to other republics of the FSU  -
maintained social services with high coverage rates and free and universal access. Of total social service
expenditures, about a third appear to have been made by enterprises. However, since independence, both
budget and enterprise-financed social services have been subject to sharp cuts in real allocations, though
the fall is more difficult to estimate in the case of enterprise-financed services, due to lack of transparency
in credit allocation mechanisms. The welfare impact of the cut is worsened by changes in the relative
costs of inputs, which have resulted in an increasing share of budgets being spent on staff salaries and
energy costs, e.g. 80% of the 1994 health budget was allocated to salaries and utilities. The crisis in
health and education provision has been accelerated by privatization and the beginnings, in 1994, of
harder budget constraints on enterprises. These have resulted in a range of responses: lower standards
of service provision, divestiture of social assets to local authorities, closures of facilities, and in some
cases, continued operation of services by enterprises at the expense of their productive competitiveness.



Chapter I                                                                                  Page 5
1.16        An existing financing issue which the current fiscal crisis has brought into sharper relief is
the method of budgetary allocation for social services provided by local authorities. Funds are allocated
by higher levels of government on the basis of centrally determined norms (e.g. cost per bed; cost per
student; capital costs per square meter). The budgetary process is increasingly inappropriate in a context
of rapid devolution of responsibility for social services to the local level. In addition, the allocations
appear to be inadequate to operate and maintain essential social services. Thus, assumption of additional
responsibilities for social service provision by local authorities has widened local budget deficits, resulting
in closure of some education and health facilities, and falling service standards at the others. Both
municipal and enterprise facilities are operating at minimal levels due to severe lack of critical equipment
and consumables, and deferred maintenance. In the short-term, however, the sustainability of social
services depends more on increasing the availability of operating resources than in providing investment
capital.
1.17        The position of local authorities is further constrained by the fiscal regime in Kazakhstan,
which does not give oblasts or raions authority to levy new taxes, or vary the rate of existing taxes. In
addition, their discretion to set user charges is constrained, e.g. the Presidential Decree capping user
charges in kindergartens at 30% of food costs. Local authorities thus have extremely limited room for
manoeuver on both the revenue and expenditure fronts. In some areas, enterprises are alleviating local
financing difficulties through voluntary sponsorship of social services. In addition, some areas have
already begun to explore more cost effective methods of service provision e.g. the introduction in
Shymkent City of the "family doctor" program, which performs many of the functions of polyclinics.
Divestiture of Social Assets
1.18        A significant legacy of the Soviet period was the widespread ownership, provision, and
financing of social services by enterprises. Overall, non-productive social assets accounted for 31 % of
all capital assets in Kazakhstan at the end of 1991. Of this total, 63% was housing stock owned by
enterprises, 11% municipal services, 10% health care facilities, and 5% educational facilities. Other
enterprise social assets included sanatoria, children's summer camps, sport and cultural facilities, and
subsidized canteens. In many areas, enterprises provided social services not only to current and past
employees and their families, but also to other members of the surrounding community. The range and
quality of enterprise social service provision varied according to the size and strategic importance of the
enterprise.
1.19        There were significant regional variations in the relative importance of enterprises in the
provision of essential social services. In many areas (such as the numerous mono-company towns in the
country) enterprises provided the bulk of certain types of social services e.g. in Ekibastuz, there were
50 enterprise and only 5 municipal kindergartens in the last quarter of 1994. In other areas (such as
Shymkent City), enterprises and municipalities provided roughly equivalent numbers of such facilities.
In other areas (including Almaty City and most rural areas), the majority of social services were
provided by local authorities. The selected cities under the project include areas where enterprises have
provided the bulk of essential social services (such as Kentau), and others where provision has been
divided more evenly between local authorities and enterprises (such as Pavlodar and Shymkent).
1.20        Much of the investment in social assets by enterprises was made through the Social Fund
within each enterprise, which absorbed 11 % of all enterprise profits in 1992. The result of such
expenditure levels in Kazakhstan has been that enterprise-owned social assets are frequently of
significantly higher quality than budget-financed facilities, both in terms of the structures themselves, and



Page 6                                                                                  Chapter I
the unit costs of service provision (e.g. costs per child in enterprise kindergartens in selected localities
in Pavlodar oblast were more than three times the level of budget facilities).
1.21        The most immediate effect of the transition on enterprise expenditures has been a dramatic
fall in investment in social asset construction. Between 1991 and 1992, construction by enterprises of
kindergartens fell by 63 %, of health facilities by 43 %, and of schools by 50%. Project preparation work
indicates that - at least in South Kazakhstan and Pavlodar oblasts - construction of social assets had ceased
altogether by 1994, and that budgets for capital repairs and maintenance are under increasing pressure.
1.22        Although local authorities are assuming ownership and responsibility for divested social
assets, they have not been given increased budgetary allocations commensurate with the additional social
service burden. Local responses to this situation have varied according to the proportional increase in
responsibilities, and the pre-existing fiscal situation and administrative capacity in the locality. In areas
where local authorities have traditionally provided the bulk of social services, there is some capacity to
cope with the increased burden, where necessary by absorbing users of enterprise facilities into the
existing budget-financed system, and closing divested facilities. However, even some of these areas are
experiencing severe difficulties in meeting the costs of the existing social service system, as evidenced
by wage payment arrears for teachers in budget-financed educational facilities in several project cities.
In Kentau, municipal kindergartens were closed in the second half of 1994 due to absence of funds
(para 3.32).
B. Government's Reform Strategy
1.23        The Government's reform strategy aims at achieving macro-economic stabilization and
implementing structural and sectoral reforms. The key elements of this strategy that have assumed
priority for the next few years are: (i) developing competitive markets throughout the economy,
particularly in agriculture; (ii) reforming the enterprise and financial sectors; (iii) putting in place
adequate social protection policies; and (iv) addressing bottlenecks in infrastructure and energy, and
cleaning up the environment.
1.24        The Government is committed to policies which will facilitate the emergence of viable
private enterprises. Consistent with this premise, its main strategy vis-a-vis the enterprise sector is to
transform it from a state-owned administered one, into one dominated by privately owned capitalist firms,
which will operate under competitive market conditions. This will be achieved through both the entry
of new firms and the privatization of existing ones.
1.25        The Government recognizes that without a viable social safety net for people living below
the poverty line and a strategy to ensure the delivery of primary services, the sustainability of the entire
reform program will be threatened. In the Letter of Development Policy for the SAL, the Government
states that it will prioritize the development of a national strategy for dealing with divestiture of social
assets from enterprises, and reformulation of UB policy and delivery mechanisms. These measures have
been formulated by the Government in tandem with the current project in a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) on Social Asset Divestiture and Unemployment Policy, dated March 25, 1995
(Annex 1).
1.26        The MOU outlines the following with respect to social services: (i) the social services which
are considered essential in terms of continued public provision; (ii) the general service standards to apply
in the operation of those services by local authorities, including unification of unit costs in existing and
to-be-divested facilities; (iii) a delineation of responsibility for social service provision between raions



Chapter I                                                                              Page 7
and oblasts; and (iv) basic principles of cost recovery which are consistent with continued access to
services by the poor. The Government recognizes the need to rationalize the structure and delivery of
essential social services, regardless of their origin. With technical assistance under the project, the
Government plans to complete a comprehensive inventory of enterprise social assets in all oblasts by
September 1995 and a national strategy for social asset divestiture by December 1995 (para 3.31). Rapid
progress with privatization has made this a matter of urgency.
C. The Bank's Role and Assistance Strategy
1.27       The Bank seeks to support macroeconomic stabilization, strengthen market institutions and
the private sector, protect various segments of society from economic hardship, and build institutions
through lending, analytic work and aid coordination. Kazakhstan is in the "high-case" reform scenario.
It has a coherent stabilization program, which has been supported by an IMF Stand-By Program in 1994.
Good progress has been made in structural reforms for price and trade liberalization, in the privatization
program for small, medium and large enterprises, and in beginning to reform the agricultural sector.
1.28       The Bank's lending will depend, inter alia, on the fulfillment of the IMF program (para
1.29), and on the Government's willingness to borrow for particular projects. The Bank assistance, to
be expanded in FY95-97, comprises the following operations: FY95 a Financial and Enterprises
Development Project (US$62 million), approved in April 1995, the proposed Social Protection Project
described in this report (US$41.1 million), and a Structural Adjustment Loan (US$180 million), to be
presented to the Board in early June 1995. The two investment loans will provide the institutional
underpinning for the implementation of the policies supported by the SAL. The SAL aims at speeding
the restructuring of the enterprise sector by focusing on measures to eliminate constraints that have been
preventing such restructuring. The Social Protection Project will assist in the divestiture of enterprise
social assets and help strengthen the Employment Service.  This would allow acceleration of the
privatization program as the social responsibilities of state enterprises are transferred to local
governments. The Finance and Enterprise Development Project will assist in strengthening the payment
system and creating a Rehabilitation Trust, charged with the restructuring or liquidation of the country's
largest debtors. In FY96, a Land Titling Project (US$40 million) would support the acceleration of land
reform. On the basis of policy and institutional progress in these projects, three FY96/97 projects would
assist in post-privatization restructuring in industry (Post-Privatization Restructuring Project - US$30
million), in agriculture (Agriculture Privatization Project - US$70 million), and in public sector
management (Treasury Modernization Project - US$15 million).
1.29       Although the economic performance under the 1994 IMF Standby Agreement was overall
successful, Kazakhstan failed to meet some of the end-1994 targets. As a result, the authorities requested
the IMF to replace the 1994 Standby Agreement with a new Standby arrangement. The IMF has agreed
in principle on a 1995 program and plans to finalize negotiations in April/May and present the 1995
Standby to its Board at the end of May 1995. Assuming that the country continues in a high case
scenario, further policy based operations would follow in the next two years, starting with a Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan in FY96 (US$150 million) aimed at assisting the restructuring of the banking
sector as well as deepening enterprise reforms. The rest of the operations would: halt the deterioration
in key oil producing facilities, restructure energy sector enterprises and help catalyze foreign investments
(Uzen Oil Field Rehabilitation Project); and prevent the deterioration of key infrastructure facilities
(through irrigation and infrastructure projects).
1.30       The assistance strategy for the social sectors focuses on helping the Government to: (i) assist
retrenched workers, especially through efficient payment of unemployment benefits; (ii) enable



Page 8                                                                            Chapter I
restructuring enterprises to divest commercially unnecessary social assets, while ensuring that essential
services (i.e. those generating large positive externalities) previously provided by enterprises are
maintained at an appropriate standard and affordable cost for those who need them; (iii) improve
informnation about living standards and the profile of poverty in the country, and target social benefits
more closely to those in need; and (iv) ensure that basic social services, especially for health, do not
collapse in the short-term and are reformed and restructured as appropriate in the medium-term. The first
two objectives would be addressed under the proposed project, while the third is already being supported
under the Bank-financed Technical Assistance Loan, effective in 1993. Measures to fulfil the fourth
objective would be initiated under this project.
1.31       The strategy for the project is consistent with Government objectives, as it would: (a) help
to develop unemployment assistance policies which will more effectively balance fiscal and social
protection objectives; (b) improve the capacity of the ES to deliver UB to increasing numbers of
unemployed people; (c) assist local governments in the selected oblasts/cities in assuming social assets
divested by enterprises, thus promoting restructuring and improving enterprise efficiency (and linking the
project to Bank support for privatization); (d) assist the local authorities to rationalize local social
spending; (e) finance relatively small investments in areas such as primary health care and pre-school
education; and (f) lay the ground for rationalizing social expenditures and improving public investment
management over the longer term, including development of a comprehensive national strategy of support
to local authorities to assume responsibility for divested social assets from enterprises (para 3.31).
D. Donor Coordination
1.32       The UN mission in Almaty has played an important role in donor coordination in the social
sectors. Together with the Bank, the UN organized in June 1994 a local CG meeting in Almaty.
Specialized UN agencies are implementing or planning programs of assistance for the health sector (WHO
and UNICEF), the Aral Sea region (WB, UNDP, UNEP), and labor market policy (ILO). The Asian
Development Bank (ADB), approved in December 1994 a US$20 million equivalent from their special
funds resources for the purchase of essential medical equipment and pharmaceuticals. OECD has
organized workshops on labor market policy and assisted with the production of labor market statistics.
Germany has and continues to provide some support on labor market policy and retraining of the
unemployed. USAID is financing policy support to the Governrment on health financing and other health
related issues. For the proposed project, USAID-financed resident consultants as well as consultants
financed by the Know How Fund (U.K.) provided technical assistance to the South Kazakhstan and
Pavlodar administrations for the preparation of detailed rationalization plans for the health and
kindergarten sectors. Through the Technical Assistance Project the Bank is providing technical and
financial support in pensions reform, health financing, poverty monitoring, and training of civil servants
and enterprise managers. The Bank has facilitated and will continue to promote, close coordination
among multilateral and bilateral donors, exploring co-financing arrangements under its own projects
where feasible.



II. LESSONS FROM RECENT EXPERIENCE
A. Employment Services
2.1        International experience suggests that Employment Services should combine programs of
passive measures (e.g. registration of the unemployed and payment of unemployment benefits) with
proactive measures (such as training and Temporary Employment Schemes (TES)). Proactive measures
generally cost more than cash benefits, but may decrease the duration of unemployment and increase
productivity. However, financing plans should ensure that proactive measures do not subsume budgetary
allocations for passive measures such as the payment of UB.
2.2         Bank experience in implementing Employment Service projects in other countries suggests
that the quality of staff is critical. Upgrading staff skills is a prerequisite for effective service delivery
and use of updated office technology. Automation is also essential to an efficient employment service,
provided that computer applications are based on well-designed programs and operational procedures.
Nevertheless, the difficulty of developing and implementing a comprehensive employment service
automation plan should not be underestimated, particularly in an environment characterized by rapidly
rising unemployment and limited local capacity.
2.3         Experience from Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) countries and elsewhere in the FSU
suggests that women are more affected by unemployment than men during the early stages of
restructuring.  They are laid off more often, and their reemployment prospects are lower.4  As
restructuring progresses, lay-off rates converge for men and women, but re-employment prospects remain
lower for women. Youth unemployment in CEE countries has also been high, up to 3-4 times the general
unemployment rate. A further lesson of CEE experience is that policies for dealing with the long-term
unemployed should be an important part of the ES mandate.  Finally, our experience with the
implementation of the Russia Employment Service and Social Protection Project suggest that ownership
of the project from an early stage of design/preparation is key to the successful implementation of a
project.
B. Social Asset Divestiture
2.4        Although the Bank has not, to date, implemented a project dealing with social asset
divestiture, loans dealing with this matter are currently being developed for Russia and China. In
addition, under the on-going Russia Privatization Implementation Assistance Loan, US$20 million were
reallocated in August 1994, at the request of the Government to help finance a component in support of
the divestiture of kindergartens from privatized enterprises to municipal authorities. Evidence from
elsewhere in the FSU and in Kazakhstan itself, as well as from parts of Eastern and Central Europe,
suggests that enterprise social services need to be transferred to the state or to other providers in order
for enterprise restructuring and workers layoffs to take place. Orderly divestiture arrangements are
necessary to ensure continued access to basic social services for large sections of the population.
4/         See Barr led.] (1994)



Page 10                                                                             Chagter II
C. Municipal Development Projects
2.5         Lessons also emerge from a survey of World Bank experience in municipal development
projects elsewhere in the world (although, to date, no evaluations are available for the ECA region). Past
experience highlights how to deal with foreseeable risks: for example, the risks incurred with increasing
political decentralization and with changing political control of municipal and state authorities imply the
need to establish strong local administration that can survive political change. If the project meets the
priority needs of the locality, it is more likely to gain and sustain political support. In a multi-locality
project, the risks of delays are spread across a larger number of implementing agencies.
2.6         An important aspect of the increased management demands on local authorities is coping
with cost recovery for social services. In the health sector, a basic package of services should continue
to be provided free of charge, though the scope of the package will vary to some extent according to
fiscal constraints 5.
D. Institutional Development and Financial Management
2.7         A more general lesson is the need to ensure adequate counterpart funds, particularly in the
context of severe fiscal constraint. OED evaluations have concluded that the Bank should place greater
emphasis on project-related institutional development and financial management, particularly cost-
recovery, during preparation, appraisal and implementation.
2.8         Such objectives can also be supported by the early establishment, if possible, already at the
initial stage of project preparation, of a Project Preparation and Coordination Unit (PPCU) within the
responsible Ministry, with an adequate number of high level advisers. This performs two functions: (i)
it increases project ownership, and exploits local knowledge in project design; and (ii) it promotes
capacity building among officials involved in the PPCU. In addition to a PPCU, it has also proved
effective in other Bank-financed projects to appoint, at an early stage, Component Coordinators within
Government agencies responsible for the implementation of individual project components. Finally, where
project implementation is decentralized - as in this project - it is critical to involve both management and
technical staff of local administrations in the institutions and training set up under the project.
5/          World Development Report (1993).



III. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.1        Kazakhstan is entering its third year as an independent nation. After bold reforms in the
first year, the government has had to contend with the complexities of implementing the transition to a
market economy while at the same time maintaining its existing system of social provision and protection.
The Government has made enterprise refonn and restructuring a key element of its economic reform
program. The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Kazakhstan, discussed
by the Board of Directors in August 1993. The CAS set forth a Bank assistance program based on an
intermediate-case scenario, characterized by implementation of a macro-economic program in the context
of an IMF STF, and satisfactory progress in key structural reform areas. Bank assistance was upgraded
to a high-case scenario when Kazakhstan adopted an IMF Standby arrangement in January 1994 and
moved to deepen structural reforms (para 1.29). The project addresses directly the Govermnent's concem
to strengthen its institutional capacity to carry out reforms in social sectors at the pace necessary to
support the economic transition (para 1.23). It also addresses an important element of the Government's
economic reform prograrn -- to adopt suitable and affordable social safety net measures to protect the
unemployed during this period of dramatic change. In line with Bank concerns about poverty reduction
and promoting the efficient use of resources, the project supports measures to strengthen the social safety
net to protect vulnerable groups, particularly retrenched workers and the long-term unemployed; develop
institutional capacity to improve the functioning of the labor market; speed up redeployment of skills to
support the emerging market economy; and support the process of divestiture of social assets from
enterprises to ensure the continuation of essential social services while promoting the economic
competitiveness of enterprises. The project will be an investment operation to complement the proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan and the privatization process.
B. Sectoral Reforms
3.2        A Memorandum of Understanding, dated March 25, 1995, addressed to the President of the
Bank contains policy statements relating to social assets divestiture and unemployment (Annex 1). Topics
included are: (a) Rationalization of Social Services: (i) definition of essential social services, (ii) general
service standards, (iii) delineation of responsibilities for provision of services, (iv) user charges, and (v)
consideration for local fiscal autonomy; and (b) Unemployment Benefit Policy: (i) Employment Fund,
(ii) unemployment benefits, and (iii) administration of the Employment Service.
C. Project Objectives
3.3        The project seeks to: (a) develop the capacity of the Employment Service in the Department
of Employment (DOE) of the Ministry of Labor (MOL) to manage the expected increase in the number
of registered unemployed and attendant benefit claims following the restructuring and privatization of
enterprises; and (b) ensure continued delivery of essential social services, by promoting orderly
divestiture of social assets from enterprises, and efficient management by municipalities of a unified
system of social services. The project will be implemented with a view to determining suitable models
for the design and implementation of a comprehensive national strategy for the divestiture of enterprise
social assets, thereby removing obstacles to restructuring and enhancing the competitiveness of
enterprises. The project would provide the institutional underpinning for the implementation of social
policies supported by the SAL.



Page 12                                                                          Chapter III
D. Project Description
3.4        To meet these objectives, the project has two main components: an Employment Service
Component to be implemented at both the national and regional levels; and a Social Services
Component, to be implemented in selected cities of South Kazakhstan and Paviodar oblasts.
3.5        The Employment Service Component will strengthen the institutional capacity of the ES
to register the unemployed and calculate and pay unemployment benefits; provide a more effective service
to unemployed jobseekers; and analyze labor markets and formulate labor market policies. It will also
develop a sharper focus for training and retraining of the unemployed, particularly women and youth,
through orienting the work of the ES towards promoting demand-driven training and through a greater
use of external training providers.
3.6         The Social Services Component will facilitate the transfer of essential social services from
restructuring enterprises to local governments, and rationalize management of all basic social services in
five selected cities -- South Kazakhstan Oblast: Shymkent City, Kentau, and Lenger; and Pavlodar
Oblast: Pavlodar City and Aksu. Local social service budget management will be reformed and social
assistance targeting improved. While many socially important facilities are run by the enterprises, the
project focuses only on essential services such as health care and early education, which are critical
elements of the social safety net.
E. Detailed Features
Employment Service Component (Annex 2)
3.7        With technical assistance under a Japanese Grant, the DOE commenced work on a number
of initiatives, including a review of its organizational structure at the republic level to provide stronger
management and direction to the ES. It has also initiated a revision of existing procedures in the ES for
dealing with the unemployed. The project will help accelerate this work and concentrate on specific
strategies for improving the overall operational effectiveness of the ES. Project financing under the ES
component will support: (a) institutional strengthening of the ES; (b) development and implementation
of a simplified unemployment benefits (UB) system and service delivery; (c) training and development
of staff; and (d) a pilot program in the two selected oblasts and Almaty to strengthen counselling and
retraining of the unemployed. Particular attention will be given to assisting women and young workers,
who are most affected by unemployment.
Institutional Strengthening (US$1.2 million of base costs)
3.8        Although this sub-component is relatively small, it is critically important for ensuring that
the ES has the capacity and the ability at both national and oblast levels to provide leadership and
effective management in handling the changes that are taking place in the economy, generally and in the
labor market in particular. The sub-component will concentrate on improving the skills and experience
of senior managers in policy development, operational planning and financial management. It will finance
23 months of technical assistance, computer equipment, supplies and training of staff. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that as a condition of Loan effectiveness, proposals for the provision of technical
assistance services will have been solicited, received and evaluated by the Borrower and furnished to the
Bank (para 7. 1(a)). The sub-component has three elements:



Chapter III                                                                           Page 13
3.9        Management Improvement.  Managers require new skills to deal with labor market
problems that are likely to arise as the market economy is developed. Different types of skills are needed
for financial management and operational planning and for dealing with ES clients, both employers and
the unemployed. The extent of these changes and the differences and impact they may have on the
working habits of both managers and staff should not be underestimated. Not only are new skills to be
learned but old skills may have to be unlearned. A Management Specialist will be provided for three
months to run management workshops for all senior managers in the oblast offices and the DOE to
emphasize their role in introducing and achieving change. This technical assistance will be provided in
PYI, with the emphasis being not only on training key managers but on transferring skills to local ES
trainers so that management improvement is built into the staff training system of the ES. Assistance
would also enable the ES to improve its allocation of resources, especially the distribution of staff among
employment offices (EOs). A workshop program to be provided under the project will highlight
managers' responsibility for sound financial management and accountability for achieving their work plans
and operating within their allocated budgets. Five two-day workshops, each for 15-20 managers, will
be conducted during PYI; two workshops per year will be organized from PY2 to PY5. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that by June 30, 1996, guidelines will be developed by the ES to modify
its overall staffing distribution in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to enable more effective support of
local offices in areas of high unemployment (para 7.3 (g)).
3.10        Labor MarketAnalysis6. The system for gathering and monitoring labor market information
and statistics will be upgraded. This requires the development of computer systems and substantial
revision of statistical systems such as industry and occupation coding and data collection methods. Funds
will be provided to engage experts to work with local staff to develop their skills in collecting,
disseminating and analyzing labor market information. Skills should be developed to analyze employment
indicators, and prepare limited employment, industry, and occupation forecasts. A limited number of
computers will be provided for each oblast and for the DOE's national office. A Labor Market Specialist
will be engaged for four months over the first two years of the project. The project will also provide 12
fellowships of 3-4 weeks each in the first and second year to enable key staff to become familiar with
labor market research techniques in other countries, to investigate best practices, and to decide what
techniques and procedures would be best suited for adoption in Kazakhstan.
3.11        Policy Analysis. New policies and programs will be required as the labor market changes.
New management skills will ensure that the improved research and analytical capability leads to better
policy development. Technical assistance will be provided for four months in the first two years of the
project to assist the ES develop its policy unit and prepare any necessary laws or decrees. In addition,
12 months of a Labor Market Policy Specialist will provide advice to the Minister of Labor on overall
labor market and employment issues. The ES will keep up with overseas practices and developments
through study tours, internal seminars and information dissemination. A number of organizational issues
for the ES are expected to arise as new policies are developed; assistance will be provided to enable the
ES to cope with these issues.
6/          Annex 2A reviews the labor market in Kazakhstan and considers the growing problem of unemployment.



Page 14                                                                            Chapter III
Unemployment Benefits and Service Delivery (US$13.7 million of base costs)
3.12       This sub-component is designed to improve the daily operations of the ES. The operations
will be upgraded through the preparation of new guidelines and procedures for basic employment center
functions, including assessing the eligibility of applicants for unemployment benefits. EOs will be
upgraded and reequipped to cope with the growing number of unemployed. The project will finance 20
months of technical assistance, computer equipment, and the establishment of a Model Office (MO) in
each oblast. Each MO will be equipped with furniture and equipment; minor furniture and fittings will
also be provided to all EOs. Four related activities would help achieve these objectives:
3.13        Unemployment Benefits7.  Rising unemployment is already putting the unemployment
benefit system under strain. The procedures for assessing claims for UB will be simplified with
individual officers taking greater responsibility for making decisions. The system will be computerized
including automation of regular payments to beneficiaries. Procedures will be developed to deal with
clients in remote locations. Systems of monitoring payments and, in the longer term, fraud control will
be implemented. An Unemployment Benefit Expert will provide technical assistance for two months to
help the ES formulate and implement revised policy and procedures.
3.14        On the policy level, the UB system will focus on providing a simpler and more streamlined
process of short-term assistance for up to six months for unemployed people during their labor market
search.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that as a condition of disbursement for the
Unemployment Benefits and Service Delivery sub-component, the Borrower will enact legislation
providing for satisfactory scale of and entitlement to UB, with the minimum level of such benefits being
equal to at least three times the base numerate established pursuant to the Borrower's Presidential Decree
No. 2120 dated March 15, 1995, or any other law establishing said minimum level (para 7.2 (a)). In
addition, assurances were obtained at negotiations that by June 30, 1996: (a) policies related to eligibility
of unemployed for benefits beyond the existing six month period will be adopted in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank (para 7.3 (h)); and (b) alternative support and training options will be defined for school
graduates and other new or returning entrants into the labor market (para 7.3 (i)).
3.15        Service Delivery. Service delivery should be improved as a matter of urgency, particularly
in areas expected to be affected by enterprise liquidations and restructuring. The daily operations of the
EOs will be restructured. New operating procedures will be developed to cover basic functions such as
registering unemployed people, accepting job vacancies from employers, matching unemployed people
to jobs, and providing a self-service system for the unemployed. Standard operating manuals will be
prepared with a far stronger client focus in the operations of the ES. Technical assistance will be
provided by an Employment Expert to work with DOE staff at the national level for 6 months over the
first two years of the project to streamline existing procedures for dealing with jobseekers and employers,
and to prepare standard operational manuals for EOs and quick reference guides for managers and
supervisors when training new staff. The assistance to be provided by the Employment Expert will
emphasize on-the-job training, and training courses. It will be in addition to the work undertaken in
support of UB reform and for implementation of the Model Office program. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that by June 30, 1996, the procedures for applying for UB will be streamlined in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank and responsibility for approval for UB payments will be delegated by the
existing commissions to the staff of ES (7.3 (j)).
7/          Annex 2C presents the impacts of expenditure and revenue patterns on the EF.



Chapter III                                                                         Page 15
3.16       Procedures will be developed for dealing with enterprises that are retrenching workers as
a result of industry restructuring. Particular emphasis will be placed on situations of mass layoffs,
streamlining the procedures for registering retrench workers and making greater use of TES, especially
in areas where unemployment is already high. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that by June
30, 1996, the current payment structure for participants in TES will be changed in accordance with the
revised structure of unemployment benefits and payments of TES will be above the minimum level of UB
(para 7.3 (k)).
3.17       The way that EOs are organized needs to be substantially changed, in terms of workloads
and work distribution among staff, and the physical structure of the offices. One MO will be established
in each oblast. MOs will incorporate all new operating procedures and guidelines, before their wider
introduction throughout the country. MOs will incorporate new organizational structures and the multi-
skilling (para 3.23) of staff to handle a wider range of tasks and to respond to different periods of
workload pressures. The physical structure of offices will be upgraded and the offices provided with
equipment and computers.
3.18       Technical assistance financed under the Japanese Grant is in place to help the DOE establish
two MOs. At least two other offices will be designated as MOs while the first two are being developed
as mentors. The system of using mentors will be extended gradually to other offices, with the full 20
MOs being established within 3 years; 10 MOs would be established in PYI and 8 in PY2. Timing and
location of additional MOs will follow closely the liquidation process of large distressed enterprises
agreed by the Government under the SAL. The project will finance 10 study tours, the refitting of offices
as well as furniture and equipment for the MOs. It will also include computer equipment and training
supplies for the training room in each MO. Upgrading of the remaining EOs will be financed in the last
three years of the project.
3.19       Computerization. While the ES has many computers (PCs), most of them are obsolete.
Virtually all of the computers are in the oblast centers, few are in raion centers and rural areas where
workload pressures are likely to become high. The work of the ES will be extensively computerized
through the project. Major areas of development will include the following systems: UB, ES operations,
labor market information, financial management, and the administration of the Employment Fund.
3.20       Technical assistance is in place with funding from the Japanese Grant, to develop a detailed
strategy for computerization. The strategy will encompass: data issues (data standards and coding
systems); technical issues (computer and telecommunications technologies and software, both proprietary
and in-house); and physical and environmental considerations (electricity supply and building constraints).
The schedule for procurement of computers will follow that for the introduction of MOs.
3.21       The project will finance a Systems Expert for six months (the first 3 months are being
financed under the Japanese Grant) to work with local specialists to evaluate this software and to develop
appropriate enhancements to automate UB calculations and payments as well as to accommodate changes
resulting from work on standardizing and streamlining operational and procedural guidelines. This work
will permit automated registration, benefits calculations and delivery and record keeping by EOs. In
addition, a technical expert will be provided for 4 months during the first two years of the project to
assess technical and communication links, introduce local area networks, and develop a national network.
3.22       Mass Layoffs. As enterprises divest themselves of social assets and undergo restructuring
and privatization, significant retrenchments are expected. Technical assistance to be provided by a Labor
Market Adjustment Expert for two months in PY1 will assist local ES staff develop strategies to cope



Page 16                                                                            Chapter III
with these situations, with special emphasis on the large distressed enterprises to be closed under the
liquidation program agreed by the Government under the SAL. The strategy will include the development
of procedures to be followed in mass layoff situations, including expanding labor-intensive TES.
Technical assistance will give particular attention to on-the-job training. In addition, in PYI, fellowships
will be financed for 4-6 staff (3-4 weeks each) to visit selected countries with relevant experience in mass
layoff situations.
Staff Training and Development (US$0.4 million of base costs)
3.23       The large increase in numbers of unemployed needing assistance from EOs will place
additional demands on staff working in these offices. This sub-component aims at strengthening the
organizational capacity at the supervisory and operational levels to respond to the increasing demands.
It would allow staff, after appropriate training, to undertake a wider range of duties than they currently
perform. While much of the training will be procedural, e.g. in new rules for administering UB, it will
also include the introduction of new ways for staff to go about their work. For example, under the
vertical organizational structure that is typically used, each staff member has limited skills and job
requirements. This will not be effective in handling the greatly increased but irregular workloads that
already are arising. Staff must become multi-skilled, in particular with greater emphasis on computer
skills. The process of change must be carefully managed including appropriate training for staff.
3.24       Training experts will provide 10 months of technical assistance (including 3 months under
the Japanese Grant), to review the existing training policy, facilities, and capacity, and to determine the
basic competencies required in future by the ES staff.  A detailed strategy for staff training and
development will be initiated under Japanese Grant financing. A training needs assessment will be
conducted for staff in the first two MOs. In order to transfer new training skills and techniques to local
staff, the preparatory work will be undertaken in conjunction with local trainers. Training manuals will
be developed including handbooks that would facilitate some self-training. This is especially important
in light of the relatively high turnover of staff in the ES. The schedule for staff training development
throughout the ES will follow the same schedule as the introduction of MOs and computerization.
Training for DOE staff will be carried out in the first two years of the project. The project will also
finance the provision of equipment and training aids for use in the staff training rooms. The training
rooms will provide facilities for staff from other offices in each raion to receive training as well as to see
the revised procedures in operation in the MOs. The project will also finance the procurement of
furniture and equipment for a training room to be established within the DOE in Almaty. This room will
also be used to provide general management and development courses for staff in management and
supervisory positions on topics such as financial management and accountability, operational planning and
performance monitoring.
3.25       Fellowships and Study Tours. A study tour to Australia for 8 technical staff of the ES took
place in November 1994, under the Bank-financed Technical Assistance Project, to review procedures
and practices in the ES of Australia, including MOs. Fellowships and study tours will be financed for
staff to study in some depth the employment systems in other countries, particularly concentrating on
specialties such as labor market research, financial management, unemployment benefits systems and
computerization. A major effort will be made during the first two years for staff to undertake these
tours. Fellowships of up to two-months each for six staff are planned for the first and second years of
project implementation as well as study tours for 8 staff of two-three weeks each.



Chapter III                                                                         Page 17
Pilot Programs for Training and Retraining of the Unemployed (US$0.4 million of base costs)
3.26       Retraining. This sub-component is intended to assist the ES to develop a sharper focus for
training and retraining of the unemployed through orienting the work of training centers, under the MOL,
towards demand-driven training and a greater use of external training providers. The sub-component
would run as a pilot program in three oblast city centers -- Almaty, Paviodar and Shymkent. The
objective will be to: (a) develop the capacity of the regional training centers to coordinate activities with
city EOs, public and private training providers and the business community; (b) utilize the most recent
methods for assessing jobseekers' capabilities; and (c) develop informnation and advisory services to
jobseekers wishing to participate in training courses. An additional objective will be to stimulate the
development of business start-up courses for unemployed clients, specifically women, in collaboration
with non-government training providers.
3.27       Although the sub-component is small and to be implemented in only 3 oblasts, it is a critical
first step in shifting attitudes about the role of vocational training in Kazakhstan and in redirecting an
essentially supply-driven system towards one that is more responsive to market demand. While the task
of reforming the vocational training system as a whole is beyond the scope of this project, the sub-
component will generate important lessons for consideration on a national scale in the near future, and
for incorporation in the on-going work in the ES on service delivery for the unemployed. Working
groups and workshops at the oblast and republic level will be financed under this sub-component to
provide for more wide-ranging discussions on the relevance and cost-effectiveness of vocational training
for the evolving labor market in the country.
3.28       The sub-component will finance 12 months of technical assistance over two years to the
three oblasts training centers and to the Republic Center for Vocational Training in Almaty. Technical
assistance will cover four broad areas: (a) reviewing and revising client assessment and counseling
methods used by t.aining centers; (ii) training of staff in the three oblast centers and the republic center
in Almaty; (iii) overseeing the implementation of a training needs assessment in the three oblasts (in
management and self-employment, with specific focus on developing entrepreneurship among unemployed
women. To support these activities, the sub-component will finance 8 study tours, essential equipment
for training centers, including computer equipment and software specifically for developing data bases
and information on training courses; materials; and workshops for staff training; materials for a self-serve
information center in each training center and workshops to improve information exchange with EOs and
employers. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that by June 30, 1996, the ES will develop a
comprehensive strategy to contract training services to private and public institutions capable of delivering
job-oriented training courses in skill areas with good employment prospects (para 7.3 (1)).
3.29       To encourage a broader dialogue on and commitment to redirecting training for the
unemployed, Training Advisory Groups (TAGs) will be established in each of the participating oblasts.
The formation of the TAGs will be the responsibility of the oblast ES and will include representatives
from public and private sector training institutions, Ministry of Education, the ES and the local business
community. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that TAGs will be set up in each participating
oblast by June 30, 1996 (para 7.3 (m)). The purpose of the TAGs will be two-fold. First, to create a
working dialogue between local organizations concerned with the role of vocational training and the need
for more flexible and demand-driven training as the market economy develops.  Second, to take
responsibility for conducting a training needs assessment covering both formal and informal enterprises
and to develop recommendations for the direction of future training capacity in the oblast.
Recommnendations from each oblast will provide the raw material necessary for more informed discussions
on vocational training at the republic level.



Page 18                                                                              Chapter III
Social Services Component (Annex 3)
3.30        The process of enterprise divestiture of social assets is putting the municipal governments
under significant management and financial pressure. To facilitate the transfers of social services out of
the enterprise sector, the Government's immediate priority is to provide additional financial support to
local administrations to meet the incremental cost requirements of the social services acquired or to be
acquired from enterprises. However, both the central and local budgets are increasingly unable to cover
such costs. The magnitude of the problems that have emerged and continue to emerge for both the State
and the enterprises, combined with the lack of an appropriate national policy framework or experience
to deal with them, have made it necessary to consider a pilot project in a limited number of oblasts and
cities. The pilot will be monitored closely (para 3.56 and Annex 3C). The results obtained and the
lessons learned would be used to implement a nation-wide policy (para 3.31) for an orderly transfer of
assets from the enterprises to local administrations or for their privatization. Consistent with the pilot
nature of the project, the Social Services Component will be implemented in five selected cities of South
Kazakhstan and Pavlodar Oblasts: Shymkent City, Kentau and Lenger for the first, and Pavlodar City and
Aksu for the second.
3.31        The component will provide support for management efficiency improvements, capital and
incremental recurrent costs, and technical assistance for kindergartens and medical facilities. The main
vehicle for the component will be the rationalization plans for the management of social services (para
3.35 and Annex 3B) and the corresponding annual work programs. On the basis of the plans and taking
into account other factors that might subsequently emerge, local administrations will be expected to
manage the transfer of assets and maintain these services at an acceptable level. Specific monitoring
arrangements will be put in place and regular reviews carried out (Annex 3C) to ensure that the plans
agreed upon with the cities are implemented on a timely manner. Continued funding will be subject to
satisfactory progress with the implementation of the rationalization plans. With technical assistance from
the PPF, the Government intends to complete an inventory of enterprise social assets in all oblasts by
September 1995. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government by December 31, 1995
would design a comprehensive national strategy satisfactory to the Bank for the divestiture of social assets
of state-owned and state-controlled enterprises and develop as part of such strategy a set of principles
covering access to essential services (para 7.3 (e)).
3.32        Analyses of the health and pre-school sectors carried out during preparation, revealed the
following key problem areas. In the health sector, excess capacity (both facilities and personnel) and
resulting excess utilization; inefficient resource use; and shortages of supplies and equipment. In the pre-
school sector, and in commnon with all publicly funded services, municipal kindergartens face a growing
mismatch between requirements and revenues available. The severity of this situation varies within the
oblasts, from stringent but not acute cash problems, i.e. Shymkent, with growing arrears in salaries and
other areas, to effective collapse in Kentau, with most kindergartens at least temporarily closed.
Alongside arrears problems, expenditures on food have come under increasing pressure, with reductions
in both quantity and quality, as have expenditures on materials, supplies and maintenance.
3.33        The Social Services Component has two main sub-components: (i) Social Service Support,
and (ii) Institutional Support.
Social Services Support (US$28.5 million of base costs)
3.34        This sub-component will finance upgrading and rehabilitation of critical infrastructure of
social facilities in two areas: health (modest rehabilitation of hospitals and polyclinics, and purchase of
essential medical equipment, supplies, vaccines and drugs), and education (modest rehabilitation of



Chapter III                                                                                Page 19
kindergartens and provision of training materials and books). In addition, loan financing will support
incremental recurrent costs for divested facilities on a declining basis, complemented by local counterpart
contribution. The project will include rationalization of local social service budget management. To this
end, the project will aim at improving management of oblast and municipal public expenditures, so as
to rationalize social expenditures and improve targeting of social assistance.
3.35        The rationalization plans, prepared for each participating city, are a detailed program to
assist the Government in its efforts to: (i) ensure the efficient transfer of social assets to the
municipalities, and the restructuring and physical rehabilitation of enterprise social assets; (ii) invest in
equipment and supplies; (iii) secure the financing of incremental recurrent costs; (iv) introduce/expand
cost recovery measures; and (v) improve the management of social assets of each participating city.
These plans were prepared by staff of the administrations of the cities concerned, assisted by consultants
and Bank staff. Annex 3B8 includes the rationalization tables and presents: assumptions taken, detailed
city inventories and financing plans, summary of the proposed asset restructuring program, and cash flow
projections for each city.
3.36        To define in more detail the rationalization programs to be implemented during 1995,
detailed work was carried out with technical assistance financed by the Know How Fund and USAID to
help the city administrations prepare specific draft work programs for 1995 (Project Documents 5-8).
This work: (a) reviewed the efficiency of the health and kindergarten systems in the selected cities; (b)
assessed the impact of rationalization plans on utilization, capacity and access to services; (c) identified
potential facilities for closure under rationalization plans, with special emphasis on those to be closed
during 1995/96; (d) provided recommendations on basic standards and levels for service provision to
guide the rationalization process; and (e) identified specific cost reduction measures. Preliminary analysis
carried out during appraisal work had identified key policy and economic issues of relevance to the
project and areas of consistency and inconsistency between the project and local policy. Additional work
identified catchment population currently served by facilities to allow basic modeling of the impact of
closure on physical access to facilities. Data on capacity of facilities (actual as well as "official") has
been combined with that on utilization/activity. Additional data, e.g. bed occupancy, turnover, length
of stay, etc., has been collected from hospitals. Where available, facility specific data on costs (fixed
and variable) has also been collected. Analysis of this data provides an indication of system capacity and
relative performance of facilities. The information outlined above has been combined with projections
of demand to compare it with system capacity following rationalization.
3.37        Selection of facilities to be closed under the rationalization plans will be on the basis of poor
performance and the least adverse impact on access to facilities. Appropriate areas for rehabilitation
investment will be identified among those facilities that are to remain open. Analysis of available cost
information on relevant facilities has been undertaken to identify feasible areas of cost reduction and
productivity improvements. Areas in which investment in supplies, medicines and equipment might
enhance productivity and meet priority needs have also been identified. In the kindergarten and health
sectors, basic minimum provision standards to underpin the rationalization process is being identified.
These standards are being designed to safeguard access to services for vulnerable groups and to ensure
that services continue to function at acceptable levels. As a condition of Board presentation, the
Government finalized 1995 work programs reviewed during technical discussions at negotiations.
8/          Detailed cash flow analysis is presented in Project Document 4 .



Page 20                                                                                Chapter III
The 1995 work programs contain: (a) introduction and objectives; (b) up-to-date inventory of social
assets in the city; (c) detailed description of social assets; (d) cost reduction measures proposed for the
year (proposed closures and divestitures and other measures to reduce costs); (e) total costs for the budget
year (rehabilitation, equipment, supplies, and incremental recurrent costs); (f) financial plan (World
Bank/local financing); (g) city cash flow; and (h) conclusions and recommendations. Future work plans
will also include a proposed training program, including criteria for selection of staff for study tours and
fellowships and domestic training. As a condition of Board presentation, the Government submitted
to the Bank for review draft subsidiary agreements for the purpose of carrying out the Social Service
Component under terms and conditions agreed with the Bank during negotiations. The Agreements
require the participating oblasts and cities to, inter alia: (a) assume responsibility for interest payments
on the loan (with the central Government responsible for repayment of the principal); (b) carry out the
respective annual work programs; (c) maintain adequate records and accounts and have them audited by
independent auditors; (d) procure goods, works and services in accordance with Bank guidelines and
permit the Borrower to inspect goods, works and services; (e) maintain separate budget line items for
expenditures related to work programs; (f) contribute in a timely manner from own resources, funds
required and specified in the work programs; (g) give the Borrower the right to suspend and terminate
use of Loan proceeds upon failure of participating oblasts and cities to perform their obligations under
the agreements; and (h) submit to the Borrower annual implementation reports. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that as a condition of Loan effectiveness, the Government will furnish to the
Bank duly signed subsidiary agreements (para 7.1 (b)).
3.38        Cost increases for budget social services as a result of divestiture will be offset by the end
of the project by: (i) rationalization/cost savings in the health and kindergarten systems; (ii) fee revenues
in the project cities, from the introduction of health care user charges and increases in kindergarten fees;
and (iii) removal/reduction of inefficiencies within the municipal kindergarten system, resulting in savings
without affecting the quality of service (e.g. more competitive procurement practices). After the project,
the Government will not be required to spend any more, in real terms, than it does currently on the
selected services in the project cities.
3.39        Assistance in the Transfer of Social Assets. The reform and restructuring of the enterprise
sector is forcing many enterprises either to close social facilities or to transfer them to local
administrations in an unplanned and disruptive manner, which puts their viability in jeopardy. The cities
participating in the project originally had 327 enterprise-owned social facilities (Annex 3A): 184
kindergartens, 90 dormitories, 25 summer camps, 13 sanatoria, 9 polyclinics, and 6 hospitals. Since the
beginning of preparation work for the project in May 1994, a good number of facilities have been closed
due to the financial difficulties the enterprises are experiencing.
3.40        The transfer of enterprise-owned kindergartens to the municipal sector will have a much
greater financial and managerial impact than the transfer of enterprise health facilities. In Shymkent city,
for example, enterprises operated 67 kindergartens in early 1994, as opposed to the municipality's 52.
Closure of enterprise kindergartens due to bankruptcy or other financial problems is accelerating in both
oblasts, with 25 of the 67 in Shymkent now closed. Anecdotal evidence indicates that several closed
kindergartens have been stripped of equipment and fittings by enterprise management, and some have
already been put to alternative uses.  Those that are standing idle clearly risk further physical
deterioration and increasing rehabilitation costs. The transfer of facilities and rationalization schedules
were, therefore, revised downwards during appraisal to reflect these closures and maximize the
affordability of asset transfer. As enterprise restructuring accelerates, many of these assets are being
transferred to the local administrations, which do not have the institutional and financial means to meet



Chapter III                                                                                 Page 21
the incremental recurrent costs. A key aspect of the rationalization, therefore, is the establishment of the
financial and institutional conditions for the divestiture of these assets in an organized, and non-disruptive
way through updating the inventory of these assets and establishing a realistic transfer timetable.
3.41        Asset Restructuring. As of May 1994, the five participating cities had a total of 492 social
facilities, of which 165 owned by municipalities and 327 by enterprises. Some enterprise assets, mainly
kindergartens, have been closed recently. As a result of the continuing asset transfer, the municipalities
would have to manage nearly twice as many facilities as they currently operate. This would lead to a
serious management burden and a substantial increase in their budgetary requirements. The quality and
standards of the services delivered by these facilities and their levels of utilization vary from city to city
and from sector to sector. Some assets are under-utilized while the service level irk others is low. Some
facilities are in great need of repair or rehabilitation. In addition, operating costs vary considerably
between facilities even in the same sectors and same cities. Some services are also duplicated and their
availability far exceeds their potential or known demand in some localities.  Under the project, the
following number of facilities will be transferred: 89 kindergartens, 5 polyclinics and one hospital. The
number of facilities to be covered by the project, reflect the ability of the cities to manage the additional
facilities9. The project will provide technical assistance to the cities to help them determine, based on
clear criteria, which facilities should be closed, merged or amalgamnated.  In order to reduce
discrepancies, the project will also support efforts to define and set standards of operation and unit costs,
which would apply to the same sector within the same city.
3.42        Rehabilitation. Many social facilities, owned by enterprises and the municipalities have
buildings and other physical infrastructure in various states of disrepair due to a lack of regular
maintenance. This has resulted in unsafe working conditions and higher than normal maintenance and
repair costs (para 1.21). Estimates of rehabilitation requirements were established using criteria for
medium and minor works as defined by the preparation team with the help of a local civil engineer.
Medium rehabilitation needs are defined as low grade structural repairs (windows, roofs, doors, minor
plumbing, ventilation, and electrical works). Minor works include repair items such as replacement of
minor fittings, replacement of window glass, repainting, and floor coverings. The appraisal team
reviewed these estimates in the light of project objectives to rationalize local government expenditure and
restore social facilities to a minimum standard necessary for provision of services. Financial assistance
will be provided through the project to local governments for essential rehabilitation and upgrading of
kindergartens, hospitals, and polyclinics, which are not destined to be closed as a consequence of the
restructuring. The number of facilities to be rehabilitated and the allocations will be specified in the
annual work programs (para 3.38).
3.43        Capital Investments in Equipment and Supplies. The financial problems experienced by
the local administrations and the enterprises, combined with the breakdown of traditional supply lines
from the FSU, have resulted in a serious shortage of essential supplies in hospitals and polyclinics.
Kindergartens also suffer from inadequate supplies of training and other materials. To restore essential
services, the project will finance the procurement of essential goods such as medical supplies for hospitals
and polyclinics, and learning materials and medical supplies for kindergartens. Procurement of medical
supplies will be in accordance with WHO/UNICEF guidelines for essential drugs and equipment.
Medical supplies for health facilities will include essential medical equipment, drugs, medicines, and
vaccines; essential medical consumables such as bandages, rubber gloves, X-ray plates; and other
9/          Table 3b.3 of Annex 3B, gives a summary of the proposed asset restructuring program.



Page 22                                                                                  Chapter III
essential items. Learning materials will include books, art and music supplies. Support for major
repairs, rehabilitation, furniture, and equipment will be provided once, in order to bring facilities up to
a minimum standard. Funding will be available in the first two years of the project for this purpose.
Minor repairs, maintenance, essential medical supplies, and learning materials will be financed on an
annual basis.
3.44        Incremental Recurrent Costs. In the past, local administrations have relied on enterprises
to provide a substantial portion of the social services in addition to fiscal revenues. The painful enterprise
sector reform now taking place is having a double negative impact on the local administrations: it is
making the transfer of social assets inevitable while at the same time substantially reducing or sometimes
eliminating the fiscal revenues that could help the State meet its current budgetary needs, let alone face
new ones as a consequence of the divestitures (para 1.22).
3.45        As revenues decrease and expenditure requirements increase, the local administrations are
less able to operate appropriately. The project will provide financing for the incremental recurrent costs
of running the additional facilities divested from the enterprises. These costs will be financed on a
declining basis so as to gradually shift the burden to the cities. Recurrent costs include salaries, utilities,
meals, laundry and other consumables for divested facilities. Regular costs for investment purposes (for
example, learning materials, drugs, medicines, vaccines, and medical consumables) are included under
capital investment (para 3.43). The incremental costs were determined by calculating the difference
between recurrent costs for social services borne by local government at the time of appraisal and the
recurrent costs that will be borne after enterprise facilities are transferred to local government
management, and after all facilities have been initially rationalized, including standardization of operating
costs (para 3.46).
3.46        For the purposes of determining the level of funding for this sub-component, the incremental
cost were calculated on the basis of a two-year phasing of divestitures of social assets. Further reductions
in project support will result from cost reductions in later years as further rationalization is undertaken.
The loan will finance 90% of the incremental recurrent costs in PYI, 75% in PY2, 45% in PY3, and
25 % in PY4 and PY5. The balance will be provided by the government and beneficiaries. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that as a condition of disbursement for incremental recurrent expenditures
for the Social Service Component, disbursements will be made only if the following actions have been
taken: (a) adoption of the annual work programs on the basis of rationalization plans, subject to prior
review and no objection by the Bank; (b) the central Government shall have established separate line
items for project expenditures in the national budget destined for the participating oblasts, the oblast
governments will do the same at the level of the oblasts' budgets for the participating cities, and the
participating cities shall include a similar line item in their own budgets; and (c) participating city
governments will cofinance incremental recurrent costs on an increasing basis relative to Bank financing
and deposit their counterpart funds into the respective project accounts according to financing plans in
the annual work programs (para 7.2 (b)).
3.47        Cost Recovery Measures. The difficult financial situation of both the enterprises and the
municipalities make it unlikely that the latter can meet the incremental recurrent cost financing
requirements of the project under present circumstances, even with the financing provided by the project.
The project, therefore, includes the gradual introduction of cost recovery measures for the services
delivered. The rationalization plans assume that user fees for kindergartens would increase from about
10% of total costs to about 18% by year 5 and for health, the increase would be from 2% to 10%. Fee
schedules are being reviewed and will be established with support from technical assistance. In devising



Chapter III                                                                         Page 23
the system of charges, provisions will be made to ensure continued access to health services and
kindergartens by poorer groups.
Institutional Support (US$2.6 million of base costs)
3.48       Institutional support will be provided by financial, health care and kindergartens management
specialists. Additional short-term technical assistance will be financed in areas such as: medical
equipment/supplies, pharmaceuticals, civil engineering, social impact monitoring, and social service
management training. Institutional support is being provided in two major phases: prior to Loan
effectiveness, under a PPF and with financing from the Know How Fund and USAID, and during the
project itself. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that as condition of Loan effectiveness,
proposals for the provision of technical assistance services will have been solicited, received, and
evaluated by the Borrower and furnished to the Bank (para 7.1 (a)). With financing under the PPF,
technical assistance is being provided for the following activities:
3.49       Financial Management Systems. Since social assets and the associated services are being
transferred from the outset of the project, it is important to establish simple, but effective financial
management systems as soon as possible. Work under the PPF will be carried out to develop
computerized management systems, both at the PCU and oblasts levels. This activity will cover an
assessment of user needs and the development of computer specifications. Technical assistance on
financial management will be provided for this purpose (3 months for each oblast).
3.50       Work Programs. While annual work programs will have to be developed, the first such
program (1995) would be the most difficult. Technical assistance was provided to assist the oblast and
city administrations to prepare the draft 1995 work programs and to ensure their applicability to the
rationalization plans. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (a) by September 15, 1995 and by
same date each subsequent year, the participating cities will prepare draft annual work programs for the
next year and shall submit such work programs to the respective oblasts; (b) by September 30, 1995 and
by same date each subsequent year, the participating cities and oblasts shall agree on the terms and
conditions of the work programs for the next year and shall submit such work programs to the PCU; (c)
by October 31, 1995 and by same date each subsequent year, the PCU shall consolidate the work
programs and submit them to the MOF and the Bank for review and comment; and (d) by November
30, 1995 and by same date each subsequent year, the Borrower, following its review of the annual work
programs and upon the Bank's review of and no objection to such work programs, and taking into
account the performance of the participating oblasts and cities under the preceding annual work program,
shall formally adopt them and ensure that the participating oblasts and cities formally adopt such work
programs (para 7.3 (a), (b), (c), an (d).
3.51       National Strategy. With technical assistance under the PPF, the Government intends to
complete an inventory of enterprise social assets and will design a comprehensive national strategy for
their divestiture throughout the country (paras 3.31 and 7.3 (a)). T'he strategy will aim at preserving
essential priority services to as large a population as possible, consistent with fiscal constraints. It will
be based on demographic characteristics, will specify appropriate service levels and standards, and will
include estimated operating costs.



Page 24                                                                              Chapter III
3.52        During the project phase, institutional support will be concerned with upgrading the
analytical capacity of local and regional governments to implement the project and to sustain the
administration of an enlarged social services sector. Support will fall under four categories.
3.53        Training. While training will take place throughout the project, early training is required
in three respects, change management, training local trainers, and selected internships.  Change
management training would assist managers to introduce and implement far reaching changes, many of
which may meet with resistance from various groups, including the wider community. Training local
trainers will enable them to take over the great bulk of staff training over the life of the project.
Internships for middle managers will be awarded for periods of 2 to 4 months to work in countries with
well-developed social services. Managers will be expected to play a vital role in implementing the project
and in administering social services. Assistance will include training of managers and staff in the
following areas: (a) financial management, (b) cost benefit analysis, (c) human resource development;
(d) management of social services; and (e) strategic and operational planning. Training will take place
at regional and local training locations and overseas. Initial training will be carried out by technical
assistance staff with local trainers eventually taking over all training. Training efforts will place special
emphasis on training staff to build the capacity to undertake rationalization of local social service budget
management. This type of training will be provided to financial staff both at the central and oblast/city
levels.
3.54        Studies and Internships. Study tours will be undertaken to selected countries to learn
management practices in social services. Internships for key operational staff for 2-4 months will be
awarded to visit countries with well-developed social services sectors. Selection of staff for study tours
and intermships will be made from oblast and city financial management, and key management staff within
kindergartens and medical facilities. Criteria for the selection of staff will be defined and agreed upon
with the Bank.
3.55        Development of Financial Management Systems.  Support will be given to develop
computerized systems covering budget management, financial management controls, and stock control.
Technical assistance will be provided to help develop and implement the systems.
3.56        Monitoring and Evaluation (para 5.14 and Annex 3C). Project implementation will take
place in an "experimental" setting with many unknown factors including the administrative capacity of
the cities. It is, therefore, essential to provide an effective moniitoring and evaluation (M&E) capacity
so that progress and effective utilization of resources can be monitored and evaluated. M&E mechanisms
will be established early in the project with assistance from consultants. The relevance, performance,
effectiveness, efficiency and impact of project activities within its stated objectives will be periodically
evaluated using monitoring data. The main purpose of these evaluations will be to draw lessons from
the experience gained and to adjust project design and implementation accordingly. In addition to the
usual on-going evaluation that is normally carried out in development projects, the periodicity of other
evaluation will be tailored to the special circumstances of both the project and the country. The first
evaluation would take place six months after the start of effective project implementation; the second after
one year; the third would be the mid-term evaluation and the final one would be ex-post.



IV. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Costs
Summary of Project Costs
4.1         The total project cost is estimated at US$54.7. million, including contingencies amounting
to US$5.4 million or 11% of the total base cost of US$49.3 million. The project costs include technical
assistance, training, equipment, supplies, materials, modest rehabilitation and upgrading of facilities, and
incremental recurrent costs. The costs for different components are shown in Table 4.1 and are presented
in detail in Annex 8.
Table 4.1:   Estimated Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Local         Foreign   Tt       % Foreign       % Total
Exchange    Base Costs
Employment Services                   6.2             9.6    1-             61            32
....   ....  ...    . . . ....:... .
Social Services                      17.8            13.4   -   2           43            63
Coordination and Monitoring           0.3             2.0      23           87             5
Total Base Costs                 24.3            25.0    4.X            51           100
Physical Contingencies            0.5              1.9       4          79
Price Contingencies'              1.6              1.4                  47
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS2                 26.4            28.3    54J            52
Price contingencies are based on standard inflation estimates (para 4.3). Physical contingencies have been
estimated at 10% for civil works, equipment, materials and supplies and 5% for training.
2f     Costs do not include duties and taxes as expenditures under the project would be tax exempt.
Basis of Cost Estimates
4.2         All project costs were estimated in US dollars because inflation rates in local currency are
difficult to forecast with any precision. Technical Assistance (TA) costs have been estimated on the basis
of recent costs estimates for comparable technical assistance in other Bank-financed projects in
Kazakhstan. Overseas fellowships have been estimated at US$10,000. The person-month costs of TA
include fees, recruitment/relocation costs, housing, subsistence, and overheads. Equipment and software
unit costs are based on recent contracts financed under the Kazakhstan Technical Assistance Project. Unit
costs for essential medical supplies and equipment are based on UNICEF price lists and quotations from
suppliers in Bank-financed projects in FSU countries. All project costs are based on April 1995 prices.



Page 26                                                                       Chapter lV
4.3        Project costs do not include any estimates for taxes and import duties since the Government
confirmed during negotiations that it will exempt goods and services financed by the project from such
taxes. Reimbursement for locally procured goods and services under the Loan would be made on the
basis of 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs) and 75% of local expenditures for items procured
locally.
Contingency Allowances
4.4        Price contingencies on foreign exchange costs are based on estimated inflation rates of 1.8 %
for 1996, 2.6% for 1997, 2.5% for 1998, 1999 and 2000. It is assumed that the rate of exchange will
depreciate in step with local inflation. Price contingencies on local costs (expressed in US dollars) are
therefore based on the same international inflation rates. Physical contingencies were estimated at 10%
for civil works, equipment, supplies and materials and 5 % for training.
Foreign Exchange Component
4.5          The foreign exchange component was estimated as follows: (a) medical and training
equipment, supplies and materials, computers and related equipment - 100%; (b) international consultants,
study tours and fellowships - 100%; (c) civil works and local training - 20%. These percentages have
been determined assuming that almost all equipment would be imported, and that all project financed
specialists would be foreign unless otherwise specified, e.g. interpreters. Including contingencies, the
resulting foreign exchange component is estimated at US $28.3 million, or 52% of total project costs.
Project Financing
4.6        The proposed loan of US$41.1 million will finance 75% of total project costs. The
Government will contribute US$8.7 million equivalent and beneficiaries US$4.9 million for a combined
local contribution of US$13.6 million equivalent or 25% of total project costs.
Table 4.2 Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local  Foreign   ->i.        % Foreign   % Total Project
Exchange       Costs
Government of Kazakhstan       8.7       0.0    8.7             0            16
Beneficiaries                  4.9       0.0    4.9             0             9
IBRD                          12.8      28.3  (41.1 N-         69            75
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           26.4      28.3    .7             52            100



Chapter IV                                                                          Page 27
Recurrent Costs Implications of the Project
4.7        Incremental recurrent costs will include: salaries, utilities, meals, supplies, laundry, and
communication costs for the Social Service Component; office and training supplies, maintenance of
equipment, communication costs, and selective increases in staffing for the Employment Service
Component; and office supplies, maintenance of equipment, and conmmunication costs for the PCU.
Adequate staffing of implementing agencies will be achieved mainly by reallocating staff within the
Government, so that the net cost increase would be limited and largely offset by staff reductions implicit
in rationalizations agreed as part of the project. A key element of the Social Service Component is to
rationalize social expenditures in the selected cities. Sizeable reductions of social expenditures are,
therefore, expected as a result of the project.
B. Procurement
4.8         The Project Coordination Unit (PCU), will be responsible for overall project coordination,
including procurement (para 5.1 and Annex 6). Procurement for all categories of expenditures will be
made in accordance with relevant World Bank Guidelines and standard bidding documents and contracts,
as appropriate. Table 4.3 summarizes proposed procurement arrangements; detailed procurement
arrangements are in Annex 12.
4.9        Civil Works (US$4.0 million). Civil works for the Social Service Component of the project
consist of modest rehabilitation and upgrading of health facilities (US$1.6 million); kindergartens (US$1.8
million) in the five cities of the two oblasts, and employment offices for the Employment Service
Component (US$0.6 million). For the latter, work will involve the rehabilitation of approximately 20
employment offices in selected cities. Works, including repairs to existing facilities and installation of
equipment, estimated to cost U$50,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to exceed US$4.0 million
in the aggregate, shall be procured under lumpsum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where
applicable. the award shall be mae to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
4.10       Goods (US$23.1 million) consisting of equipment, supplies, drugs, and teaching and other
materials will be grouped to the extent practical to encourage competitive bidding. The following
methods of procurement will be followed:
(a)  International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be used for goods estimated to
cost US$18.5 million (80% of total goods) related to contracts estimated to cost more than
US$300,000 equivalent each;
(b) Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures will be used for purchases, estimated to
cost US$300,000 equivalent or less per contract and US$2.8 million (12% of total goods)
equivalent or less in the aggregate, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a
limited number of suppliers, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of para 3.2 of the Procurement Guidelines. (i.e., suppliers of specific goods
would participate by invitation rather than in response to an advertisement);



Page 28                                                                            Chapter IV
(c) International Shopping (IS) procedures, in accordance with the provisions of paras 3.5 and
3.6 of the Guidelines, will be used for the procurement of goods that can not be grouped
in packages above US$300,000. Quotations from at least three suppliers from at least two
different eligible countries will be required for contracts less than US$300,000. An
aggregate limit of US$1.1 million (5% of total goods) will be procured through IS;
(d) National Shopping (NS) procedures for contracts up to US$50,000 each will be used for
locally available, off-the-shelf items of small value and standard specifications up to an
aggregate amount of US$0.7 million (3 % of total goods). In accordance with the provisions
of para 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, at least three price quotations obtained from qualified
suppliers will be required; and
(e)  Procurement from UN Agencies. Should it be determined that procurement of drugs and
other related medical supplies in the health sector could be carried out in a more efficient
and effective way from UNICEF or other UN Agencies, then such procedure could be used,
subject to prior review by the Bank, and in accordance with the provisions of para 3.9 of
the Guidelines.
4.11        Consulting Services (US$4.9 million). The project will finance about 10 consultant months
of individual consultants (US$0.2 million) and 2 consulting firms (about 17 consultant years - US$4.7
million). Specialists and/or consulting firms financed under the project will be hired in accordance with
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" dated August, 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form  of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used. The
Ministry of Labor has sent letters of invitation to consulting firms to present proposals for the provision
of technical assistance for the Employment Service. Similarly, letters of invitation have been sent by the
Ministry of Finance for the provision of technical assistance for the PCU and the Social Service
Component. The TORs for the latter services were designed in three phases: (i) establishment of the
PCU and preparation and execution of initial procurement actions for the major technical assistance
contracts to the MOL and for the Administrations of South Kazakhstan and Pavlodar Oblasts (to be
financed under a PPF); (ii) continued procurement of necessary consultants and equipment, and setting
up arrangements for rehabilitation of selected facilities; and (iii) supervision of on-going work and
provision of general support for policy and implementation until the project's conclusion. Consultants
selected in Phase I would be expected, if performance warrants, to provide services in Phases II and 111.
This approach will allow early implementation and encourage participation by recognized firms in this
field.
4.12        Training (US$1.2 million).  For overseas training and study tours financed under the
project, the qualifications of candidates along with their course of study, proposed training institutions
and costs, and in-country local training courses will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Staff will
be selected on the basis of established criteria, to be agreed upon with the Bank as part of the work
programns (para 3.54).
4.13          Incremental Recurrent Costs (US$21.0 million). The Loan will support incremental
recurrent costs on a declining basis, the balance will be provided by local governments and beneficiaries



Chapter IV                                                                         Page 29
in the case of the Social Service Component, by the Ministry of Labor in the case of the Employment
Service Component, and by the Ministry of Finance in the case of the PCU. Recurrent costs for the
Employment Service Component will include office and training supplies, maintenance of office
equipment, communication charges (fax, international telephone calls). Recurrent costs for the Social
Services Component will include salaries, utilities, meals, laundry, other consumables, and
communication charges for divested facilities. Recurrent costs for the PCU will include office supplies,
maintenance of equipment, and communications charges. Procurement per institution under the Social
Service Component will be for low value contracts and affected either weekly or monthly (for example
food is procured weekly). In lieu of requiring each institution to present cancelled receipts for each
purchase, an agreement to disburse on a unit cost (i.e. number of children in kindergartens) will be
agreed upon with the Bank. The Bank will agree to disburse funds for these expenditures on the basis
of agreed annual budgets established in annual work programs, which will require prior Bank review.
Present practices for procuring such items include local shopping and sole-source procurement based on
the nature of the items. The Bank has found these procedures satisfactory. The cost calculations for the
Social Service Component were established on a unit cost basis (see Annex 3B); These unit costs form
the basis for city budgets. This would allow the Bank and the cities to establish, each year, uniform unit
costs which are the result of the rationalization plans of each city (i.e. number of children per
kindergarten, number of hospital beds and patient visits in polyclinics, and number of staff, etc.), which
then results in budget figures per institution. Periodic review and audit will be based on a verification
that the units agreed upon were actual, i.e. enrollments, patient days, etc.
4.14       Custom Duties and Tares. All Goods specifically imported for the project will be exempt
from custom duties and taxes.  Foreign technical assistance specialists will be exempt from the
Government's normal personal income tax. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
4.15       Preference for Domestic Manufacturers. For contracts for Goods to be awarded on the
basis of ICB, the Borrower may, with the agreement of the Bank, grant a margin of preference of up to
15% in accordance with World Bank Procurement Guidelines (January 1995).
Bank Procurement Oversight
4.16       Procurement Planning. Prior to the issuance of any invitations for bidding, a proposed
procurement plan for the project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance
with the provisions of para 1 of Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines of January 1995.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said para 1.
4.17       Bank Review: All ICB and LIB contracts including bidding documents, and the first two
national shopping contracts for works in each sector, including the standardized bidding documents will
be pre-reviewed by the Bank. Specifically, the following procurement actions would be subject to prior
Bank review:
(a) Civil Works: Works would be of a small nature, and rehabilitation rather than new
construction. Works will be procured under lurnpsum, fixed price contracts awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a



Page 30                                                                                                                                   Chapter IV
Table 4.3 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Mfllions)
Project Element                                     International              Other                Not Bank          -        a-al
Competitive                                     Financed            :.  -.-.l-0-:.....-
Bidding                                                          .    .. .. ..  .   ....   .
,,, ,- ,  ,,. ...,...  .. .E.
I.Works'                                                                       3.84                   0.19          ..-
(3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.8)........ .- 
.... . ... . .       .
(3.84)                                                .....
2.  Goods"
2.1 Equipment                                           11.21                   2.82                                 .-..4. ..
(11.21)                 (2.82)                                       (14.03.
2.2 Supplies                                             7.25                   1.85                                  ...      9D....-.
(7.25)                 (1.85)
_   .,   ,  .,   ,, - ,, - ~~~~~~~~~~~. . . - . . -. i. . -,
3                                                                               .   C ons ult   n  sil  ................ ... ; -.-.- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . .
3. Consultants'12
3.1  Policy Support                                                             0.08
(0.08)                   .           .      ..
3.2  Implementation Support                                                     4.34                                          434
(4.34)
3.3 Capacity Building                                                           0.48                                          04S
(0.48)                   .           .     ...
4.  Training                                                                     1.19
(1.19)                                       (1A)...  .........
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                               O r. ....       .......-1--
5. Other
Incremental Recurrent Costs'3                                                 7.51                  13.45                  20..:
(7.51)
6. PPF                                                                          0.50
(0.50)                                     ;3SO)
.. , ,s WS~. . 's. .. . . .;, :.U,
TOTAL                                                   18.46                  22.61                   13.64                 $4?-
BANK                                                   (18.46)                (22.61)                    ss  )1s
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
Figures may not total due to rounding.
10/National Shopping (NS) in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
11/Includes LIB purchases for limited source medical equipment and computers and software procurement (US$2.8 million), Intemational
Shopping (IS) for off-the-shelf items (US$1.1 million), and NS for kindergarten and training supplies (US$0.7 million), in accordance with
World Bank Guidelines.
12/Consulting Services would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants 1981
13/lncludes national shopping and sole-source procurement based on the nature of the items and the current practices of the Borrower which
the Bank has found to be satisfactory.



Chapter IV                                                                         Page 31
written invitation. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully
complete the contract (para 4.9). The PCU will be responsible for the evaluation and
recommendation of award of contracts. The Bank will review prior to award the first two
rehabilitation contracts under each component (or more as the Bank may decide) and
monitor other awards and works on a selective basis during project supervision.
(b)  Goods: In general, pre-identified master lists of goods, indicating grouping, along with
estimates of cost and proposed method of procurement will be pre-reviewed by the Bank.
Items would be grouped to the extent practical to encourage competitive bidding and to
permit bulk procurement. All contracts above US$300,000 will require prior Bank pre-
review. Contracts below these limits will be subject to ex-post reviews during supervision
missions.
(c)  Consultants: The selection of consultant firms and individuals will be in accordance with
the World Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August, 1981). Terns of Reference for
all consulting assignments will be subject to prior Bank review. Terms and conditions of
contracts for all technical assistance assignments, invitation packages and evaluation reports
of assignments costing more than US$100,000 each for firms, and US$50,000 each for
individual consultants will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
(d)  Procurement Progress Reports.  As part of the quarterly progress reports, specific
attention will be given to procurement activities.
4.18       General Review: The Bank will monitor procurement activities, contract management, and
project record-keeping during supervision missions. The Bank will undertake a focussed project launch
workshop and a comprehensive mid-term review of project progress; both activities will place special
emphasis on implementation including procurement matters (paras 5.4 and 5.13 and Annex 3C).
4.19       Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR): A CPAR has not been prepared.
Since the breakup of the FSU, all rules and regulations concerning procurement have become basically
invalid. For this project, the Government will follow the World Bank's Procurement Guidelines as
described above and as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
C. Disbursements
4.20       It is envisaged that the proposed Loan would be disbursed over a period of about six years.
No standard disbursement profile exists for Kazakhstan or for this type of project; the disbursement
forecast is based on the ECA disbursement profile adjusted for retroactive financing expenditures. Annex
11 shows a detailed disbursement forecast of the Loan. Funds disbursed under the PPF would be repaid
from the proposed Loan funds after effectiveness. The Project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 2001; the Loan closing date would be June 30, 2002. The proceeds of the loan would
be disbursed as per Table 4.5.



Page 32                                                                             Chapter IV
Table 4.4 - Proceeds of the Loan
Category                                      Amount        Percentage of Expenditures to be
(US $ millions)    Financed
1. Works                                        3.26        90% of total expenditures
2. Goods                                       20.94-       100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs), and 75% of local
expenditures for goods procured
locally
3. Consultants                                              100% of total expenditures
3.1 Policy Support                          0.30
3.2 Implementation Support                  4.30
3.3 Capacity Building                       0.40
4. Training                                     0.90        100% of total expenditures
5. Incremental Recurrent Costs
(a) Social Service Component                7.15        90% of total expenditures incurred
up to Dec. 31, 1996; 75% Jan. 1,
1997 - Dec. 31 1997; 45% Jan. 1,
1998 - Dec. 31, 1998; and 25% after
Dec. 31, 1998
(b) Employment Service Component and        0.36        50% of total expenditures
Coordination and Monitoring
Refunding of PPF                                0.50        Amount of PPF
Unallocated                                     2.99
Total                                   41.1
Table 4.5 Annual and Cumulative Disbursements
(World Bank Fiscal Years)
40.0
35.0
30.0-     
rb   t4 YW.2  t4 tIW. Vlgm  tl:  p.i   wa  wa  Vl4t  m,  9YOt4  F
_w (3 Ib Yin*



Chapter IV                                                                       Page 33
4.21       For expenditures relating to (i) incremental recurrent costs, (ii) contracts for goods valued
at less than US$300,000 equivalent, and (iii) contracts for works each valued at less than US$100,000
equivalent, reimbursements would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). The
documentation to support these expenditures will be retained by the PCU, the MOL and the South
Kazakhstan and Pavlodar Administrations for their respective project activities for at least one year, after
receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made. This
documentation will be made available for review by the auditors and Bank supervision missions.
Disbursements for all other items will be made against full documentation and respect procurement
guidelines where applicable. Supervision missions will review documentation retained by the borrower
in the field. If ineligible expenditures, included those not justified by the evidence furnished, or amounts
in excess of agreed disbursement percentages are financed from the SA, the Bank will have the right to
withhold further deposits into the Special Account (SA). The Bank may exercise this right until the
borrower has: (a) refunded the amounts involved, or (b) (if the Bank agrees) submitted evidence of other
eligible expenditures that the Bank can use to offset the ineligible amounts. The minimrum amount of
each withdrawal application for direct payment would be US$50,000.
4.22       The District Office will submit SOEs to the city budget office. The statements will be
certified by the Chief of the District Office and the head of the school/health departments. The city
budget office will consolidate the SOEs from the districts and have them certified by the head of the city
administration before they are forwarded to the oblast where they will equally be certified by the head
of the oblast and transmitted to the PCU. The PCU will provide the official certification for the Bank
when requesting the replenishment of the SA.
4.23       In order to maintain the momentum achieved during project preparation and to ensure early
project start-up, the Loan provides for retroactive rmancing up to 10% of the Loan amount in respect
of expenditures incurred since January 1995. Expenditures will relate to works for both refitting of
employment offices and facilities to be supported under the Social Service Component, as well as
incremental recurrent costs for the Social Service Component. With technical assistance under the
Japanese Grant appropriate systems have been designed at the city level to ensure proper control and
utilization of SOE mechanisms.
Special Account
4.24       To facilitate and expedite disbursements, a Special Account (SA) in dollars has been
established by the Borrower in the National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK) on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. A first deposit of US$20,000 has been made with PPF Financing. After the loan
becomes effective an additional deposit for a total combined amount of US$1.0 million will be made,
representing estimated average expenditures to be paid from the SA over a three-month period. To
facilitate payments at the city level, funds will be transferred in Tenge directly from the SA to bank
accounts in branches of the NBK at the oblast and city level under the ninety-day advance procedure.
All foreign expenditure payments will be made directly from the SA.
4.25       The Special Account has been established in the name of the Borrower and will be
administered by authorized staff of the PCU. Applications for replenishment of the SA will be submitted
to the Bank by the PCU monthly or whenever the account is drawn down by about 50% of the initial
deposit, whichever comes first.



Page 34                                                                            Chapter IV
4.26        As noted in para 4.24, the SA will be maintained in the NBK. The appraisal mission
confirmed that NBK is capable of meeting the requirements of the Bank with respect to opening and
maintaining the SA. NBK is: (i) financially sound as demonstrated by its latest accounts, as audited by
an internationally recognized auditing firm; (ii) has a significant foreign correspondence network covering
all major currencies; (iii) has a reasonable capacity and experience for issuing letters of credit, for making
direct foreign payments and other international transactions with appropriate arrangements for the training
and development of its staff; (iv) capable of performing a wide range of local banking services, including
cash payments, transfers to other domestic banks, issuance of debit notes, application of conversion rates
from foreign currencies, and maintenance of adequate accounts for the SA; (v) a member of Swift and
uses or plans to use this facility to expedite payment transfers; (vi) willing to issue a comfort Letter to
assure that amounts deposited in the SA would not be set off or otherwise seized or attached to satisfy
amounts due to the bank by the borrower; (vii) willing to maintain adequate accounts as required by the
Bank, provide to the Bank monthly bank statements, and any other information considered necessary
(copies of all transactions would be routinely submitted to the implementing agencies); and (viii) willing
to charge reasonable rates for its services and provide reasonable interest on balances held from time to
time.
D. Project Accounts, Budgets and Audits
Project Accounts and Budgets
4.27        Financing of project activities will proceed through Project Accounts (PAs) to be opened
in local branches of the NBK in each participating city, through which project funds will be channeled.
Transfers to the PAs will be made from the SA through the ninety-day advance accounts to be opened
at the oblast level upon presentation of three month expenditure requirements previously agreed in annual
work programs.
4.28        The current system for transferring funds from the central budget to the regions operates
as follows: at the beginning of the fiscal year for which the budget has been approved, and on the basis
of the agreed tax sharing rate, the Government provides written instructions to the oblast branches of the
NBK to transfer automatically to the oblasts their respective tax shares from the tax receipts from the
local enterprises. The difference between the tax payments by the enterprises, and the predesignated
shares of the oblasts is transferred to the republican treasury. At the next level down, each oblast sets
the tax sharing rate for the cities and transfers funds to them as they are received.
4.29        Financing by the Government and oblasts of project activities will be preceded by approval
of the annual work programs. The corresponding budgetary requirements will be submitted to the MOF
by the PCU, the ES and the oblasts, under separate line items clearly identifying the project. The
amounts then transferred by the Government to the MOL and the oblasts will include both the oblasts'
normal expenditures and their counterpart shares of project expenditures to be financed by the
Government.
Accounts and Audits
4.30        The Borrower will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by
the Bank under the Loan, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the
financial statements or reports are submitted to the Bank. A computerized accounting system will be
established in the PCU. The Project Accountant in the PCU (para 5.1) will maintain consolidated



Chapter IV                                                                       Page 35
accounts for the project and will prepare quarterly financial reports. The accounts will be maintained for
all project funds, i.e. loan funds and local contribution.
4.31       MOL and the local administrations of the two oblasts and five participating cities (each on
behalf of the Borrower) will establish an appropriate accounting system to process and record information
on the proper receipt and use of funds, both loan funds and local funds. The system should ensure timely
and accurate accounting of all transactions under the Loan and clear presentation of the financial
information. Short-term technical assistance will be provided to support the local administrations to
ensure that all project accounts are maintained in accordance with internationally accepted accounting
practices. The SA and project accounts are intended to assist the Borrower with cash flow and to enable
early and more effective project implementation and disbursements. The Borrower will ensure that all
the necessary arrangements for proper accounting of receipts and payments, including replenishment, are
completed before these accounts start operating.
4.32       All project records and accounts, including those for the SOEs, the SA, the ninety day
advance accounts, and PAs will be audited annually in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). An
international auditing firm would be appointed to perform project audits. The Bank will be provided
within six months of the end of each fiscal year with an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank
may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified
statement of expenditures.






V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Overall Project Management and Implementation
Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
5.1        Implementation of specific components will be the responsibility of the respective
implementing agency (MOL for the ES component and the local authorities in South Kazakhstan and
Pavlodar Oblasts for the Social Services Component). Overall responsibility for project coordination will
rest with the PCU (Annex 6) established in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). In addition to overall
coordination, the PCU will be responsible for common implementation functions such as project
accounting, procurement, disbursements, consolidation of annual work programs and budgets, and
progress and annual reports. It will also provide training and technical assistance coordination, project
supervision, and assistance to the CCs. The PCU will report to the Minister of Finance. It will be
staffed with a director (already appointed), an accountant (local), a disbursement specialist (local), two
bilingual secretaries, a translator, a procurement expert (foreign), a technical assistance coordinator
(foreign), and a computer systems specialist (possibly a United Nations Volunteer). In addition, the
project will finance a limited number of short-term consultants as needed for specialized procurement,
i.e. pharmaceutical and medical equipment, and a civil engineer to supervise rehabilitation of facilities.
5.2        The Technical Assistance Administrator will provide overall institutional support to the
PCU. His/her TOR would emphasize capacity building, as well as coordination of long-term and
short-term TA, consolidation of quarterly and annual progress reports, work programs, budgets, and
project accounts. It is envisaged that capacity building promoted by the project, through the PCU, will
facilitate the integration of responsibilities to the MOF structure for supervision of financial management
of services in the oblasts. Contracting of two consulting firms, one each for the Employment Service
Component and PCU/Social Service Component to provide all foreign TA services, have been initiated
(para 4.11). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that as a condition of Loan effectiveness,
proposals for the provision of technical assistance services will have been solicited, received, and
evaluated by the Borrower and furnished to the Bank (para 7.1 (a)). Assurances were also obtained at
negotiations that the PCU will be maintained throughout the project implementation period in a manner
and with staffing, funds, facilities and other resources satisfactory to the Bank (para 7.3 (p)).
Project Coordinating Council (PCC)
5.3        The PCU will be supported by the PCC, whose main task will be to oversee project
implementation. The inter-ministerial Working Group established to provide policy guidance for the
preparation of the project will become the PCC. The PCC will be chaired by a Senior Management
Official of the MOF. As the Working Group, the PCC will be integrated by high-level representation
from the Apparatus of the Government, the Ministries of Finance, Economy, Labor, Social Protection,
Health, Education, and Justice, oblast and city authorities, the State Conmmittee on Management of State
Property, and the State Committee on Privatization. The PCC would meet once every three months or
more frequently when necessary. CCs will be invited to participate in these meetings and the PCU will
serve as the Secretariat.  The PCC will review and help resolve all issues raised by project
implementation that cannot be resolved by the implementing agencies or the PCU. Assurances were also
obtained at negotiations that the PCU will be maintained throughout the project implementation period
in a manner and with staffing, funds, facilities and other resources satisfactory to the Bank (para 7.3 (p)).



Page 37                                                                          Chapter V
B. Implementation of Components
5.4        The respective agencies will be responsible for implementation of their components. The
Ministry of Labor will implement the ES component, while the administrations of the oblasts will
implement the Social Services Component. In each implementing agency and at each significant level
of activity, Component Coordinators (CCs) have been nominated: one in the MOL and two in each
oblast and city administration (TOR for CCs are in Annex 4A). The CCs will be the focal points for all
project activities related to their components. The CC for the ES component will report directly to the
Head of the Department of Employment, and through him, to the Minister. The CC will be the first
point of contact between the Ministry, the PCU, the Bank, and the PCC. The CCs for each of the five
cities and the two oblasts will report directly to the head of the oblast and city administrations,
respectively. These arrangements will remove the need to create a separate structure within each
implementing agency. A seminar was held in November 1994 during the appraisal mission, with the
participation of all CCs and key officials of the Ministries of Finance, Economy and Labor for better
understanding of the project, proposed implementation arrangements, and Bank's procedures and
practices. A project launch workshop will be organized immediately after Board Presentation.
Employment Service
5.5        The responsibility for the implementation of the Employment Service Component will rest
with the Chairman of the ES in the DOE of the MOL. Institutional arrangements for implementation of
the ES component will be made at each level of the Labor portfolio as follows:
5.6        National Level. A single CC has been nominated to be responsible for the component.
The CC will report directly to the Chairman of the ES and through him, to the Minister. The CC will
be the first point of contact among the Ministry, the Bank, the PCU and the PCC. The CC will represent
the Ministry on the PCC. The CC will keep other areas of MOL informed of progress on the project.
The Chairman of ES will direct his senior officers as a Steering Group for the project. CC for individual
oblasts will be included on this Steering Group as the oblasts become more involved in project
implementation. A unit has been established in DOE to be responsible for project implementation and
to work closely with technical assistance to be financed under the project. The unit will report to the CC
and work closely with the PCU, especially with the specialist officers, the accountant, disbursement and
procurement specialists.
5.7        Oblast Level. As each oblast becomes more involved in project implementation (MOs will
be established during the first two years), it will nominate a CC to coordinate the oblast's participation
in the project. The CC will work with the national unit (para 5.6) to implement the MO in the oblast.
The CC will become a member of the overall Steering Group.
5.8        Employment Center Level. Each MO will have a manager nominated well in advance of
commencement of preparation work; managers have been nominated for the two MOs being established
at present (Pavlodar and Almaty). At least two other sites will be designated before completion of the
technical assistance being provided under the Japanese Grant. Shymkent has been selected as the second
site. To ensure they are familiar with the operations of MOs, staff from Shymkent EOs will become
involved with the MO in Almaty during the second and third quarters of 1995.  To facilitate
implementation and supervision, the second site will be selected from an oblast near Pavlodar. A rolling
system will be introduced where designated offices work closely with offices that have already been set
ip as MOs using them as mentors for their own development. A typical cycle for the introduction of a



Chapter V                                                                           Page 38
MO will take seven months: design and plan (2 months), works (3 months), procure equipment and
materials (concurrent with site works), staff training (2 months).
Social Services Component
5.9        As in the ES component, the focal point for implementation of this component will be the
city CCs. They will be responsible for the preparation of the annual work programs and budgets (para
5. 10). The CCs will also help ensure that project accounts are maintained and that quarterly and annual
progress reports are prepared. At the oblast level, the CCs will be responsible for coordinating the
planning and implementation of project activities at the city level, consolidating the arniual work programs
and budgets and ensuring that the project financing requirements are incorporated in the oblast budgets
before they are sent to the PCU and subsequently to the MOF during the annual budget preparation
process. They will also review and consolidate the progress and annual reports before they are sent to
the PCU.
Project Reporting and Evaluation
5.10       The project will be implemented with reliance on detailed annual work programs (WP). The
first draft work programs covering the period January - December 1995 were reviewed at technical
discussions during negotiations (para 7.3 (c)). Subsequent WPs will be prepared and submitted to the
Bank by October 31 of each year (para 7.5(a)) to coincide with the normal Government budget cycle.
The city CCs will be responsible for the preparation of the WP for the social asset programs of the city.
The WP will be submitted to the city council as part of the city budget for approval. In the budget
proposals, project activities will be clearly identified and set aside for easy follow-up. The WP will be
forwarded to the oblast administration through the oblast CCs who will consolidate all the WPs from the
cities reporting to that particular oblast. The oblast council will then approve the consolidated WP and
forward them to the PCU.
5.11       The PCU will review and consolidate the WPs received from the oblasts. It will be
responsible for submitting the consolidated WP to the Ministry of Finance for review and approval and
for inclusion in the national budget to ensure that appropriate allocations are made for the financing of
the share of the project incremental recurrent costs that is the responsibility of the oblast/cities. The
investment costs included in the WP will have to be clearly spelled out and included in the approved
government PIP. The WPs will include the following: (a) a statement of the objectives to be pursued for
the coming year; (b) an up-to-date inventory of all social assets in the city; (c) a detailed description of
social assets; (d) cost reduction measures (proposed closures and divestitures/other measures to reduce
costs; (e) total costs for the budget year (rehabilitation, equipment, supplies, and incremental recurrent
costs); (f) financial plan (World Bank/local financing); (g) city cash flow; and (h) conclusions and
recommendations. The WPs will be submitted to the Bank for review and comments at the same time
they are submitted to the PCU. The Bank will review the WPs and make comments and suggestions as
appropriate. The WPs will form the basis for the implementation of project activities in any given year.
5.12       Assurances were obtained at negotiations that within one month of the end of each quarter,
each department, agency and administrative unit of the Borrower involved in project implementation will
prepare quarterly progress reports for submission to the Bank through the PCU (para 7.3 (q)). These
will be compiled and presented as project quarterly reports by the PCU. The first report will be issued
three months after Loan effectiveness. These reports will include: (a) a summary of project activities by
component; (b) a description of the main achievements against agreed implementation and disbursements



age 39                                                                            Chapter V
schedules, and of the problems encountered; (c) recommendations on how to solve problems and
comments on progress in implementing previous reconmmendations; (d) a description of component
activities; (e) a presentation of the financial situation of the project in terms of actual versus budget for
the major expenditure categories and the financing of these categories; and (f) a presentation of the
financial situation of the component. By February 15, 1996 and by the same date each subsequent year,
each departmentlagency and administrative unit of the Government involved in project implementation
will prepare an annual implementation progress report, which shall then be made available to the Bank
through the PCU (para 7.3 (f)). The quarterly and annual reports will be prepared by the CCs in each
implementing agency. The reports from the cities will be consolidated with an introduction describing
the major achievements and problems by the oblasts CCs before being submitted to the PCU for final
clearance. The reports cleared by the PCU wili be forwarded to the Bank. Preparation of reports will
be facilitated by the project monitoring and MIS, which will be designed prior to Loan effectiveness.
5.13       Assurances were obtained at negotiations that by June 30, 1997: (a) the Borrower shall
undertake a mid-term review of the implementation of the project in consultation with, and in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para 7.3 (n)); and (b) by September 30, 1997, prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report regarding the results of the mid-term review, including progress achieved in the implementation
of the project and measures recommended to ensure the achievement of project objectives during the
remainder of the project life (para 7.3 (o)).
5.14       Monitoring. It will be done in five main areas: (i) the procurement and physical delivery
of goods; (ii) the physical implementation of project activities; (iii) the impact on service delivery; (iv)
the financial management and control of project funds; and (v) the institutional development under the
project. A continuous assessment of these activities will be done under the context of the Implementation
Schedule (Annex 9) and, more specifically, the annual work programs. Project implementation progress
and the effective utilization of project resources will be monitored through well defined Performance
Monitoring Indicators (Annex 7). Project management at the MOL and at the oblast and city levels, and
with technical assistance to be provided under the project will establish the required Management
Information Systems (MIS) necessary for the reporting and evaluation of these indicators. The indicators
will first be defined in the WPs and then be reported in the quarterly and annual reports along with the
basic financial information.
Bank Supervision
5.15       The proposed project focuses on two key areas of the social safety net -- support to
retrenched workers and divestiture of social assets from enterprises. With limited experience in the latter
area, intensive Bank supervision will be necessary, especially during the first two years of project
implementation to help identify and solve problems at an early stage and to ensure that the rationalization
plans conform with agreed targets. The Supervision Plan in Annex 10 estimates a requirement of 40 staff
weeks for supervision in PYI (4 missions) and 37 staff weeks for PY2 (3 missions, including the mid-
term review). A local high level staff to be recruited in the Bank's Resident Mission in Almaty will
participate in project supervision and facilitate day-to-day contact with the PCU. The performance
monitoring indicators will be used for monitoring of project implementation and impact by supervision
missions.



VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1         The policy making capacity of the Employment Service will be improved, and the basis laid
for a program of social protection to retrenched workers. The provision of an effective social safety net
will remove constraints on labor mobility and improve public support for the Government's economic
strategy. Enterprise restructuring will be facilitated in the selected cities by the orderly divestiture of
social assets. The project will foster rationalization of local social service budget management and
improve public social investment programs in the selected cities. Improvements in the cost effectiveness
of local social expenditures will have a net positive impact on the central budget, reducing the need for
increased budgetary allocations resulting from divestiture, while allowing local governments to operate
additional divested social services. Experience with the rationalization programs in the two oblasts will
facilitate replication/improvement of the approach subsequently throughout the country.
B. Risks
6.2        In a newly created country undergoing fundamental economic transformation, there is an
inevitable risk of policy changes and implementation delays. The project faces five main risks: (i) the
Government's limited experience with Bank-financed projects and overall limited administrative capacity;
. (ii) the complexity of the issues to be addressed; (iii) introduction of user fees for health services may
be delayed because changes in the legislation need to be introduced; (iv) the Government may find it
difficult to sustain the level of management, coordination, and budgetary effort required to succeed in the
divestiture process; and (v) delays in implementing policy reforms may jeopardize project implementation.
The project would help offset these risks by: putting in place strong institutional arrangements;
implementing the Social Services Component in oblasts/cities where the local administrations are
committed to implementing structural changes in the social sector, through rationalization of social service
expenditures, generating substantial cost savings in the running of social assets; providing management
support and training for the implementation of the rationalization plans, including building a national
capacity through the training of financial staff both at the central and oblast/city level; and providing
technical assistance to the ES to implement improved organizational procedures prior to project start-up.
In addition, the project's technical assistance inputs and the reporting relationships and responsibilities
of the PCU are being designed so as to minimize the risks, which would also be given particular attention
by supervision missions.
C. Environmental Impact
6.3         The proposed project comprises technical assistance, training, introduction of management
infornation systems, modest rehabilitation of health care facilities and kindergartens; and provision of
essential medical equipment and drugs. As such, no adverse impact on the environment is expected from
the proposed project (Screening Category C).






VII. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower that it will as:
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(a)  furnish to the Bank, evaluation reports of proposals for the provision of technical assistance
services (paras 3.8, 3.48, and 5.2); and
(b)  have executed subsidiary agreements with each participating oblast and city (para 3.37).
Condition of Disbursements for Unemployment Benefits and Service Delivery sub-component
7.2   (a)  the Borrower will enact legislation providing for satisfactory scale of and entitlement to UB,
with the minimum level of such benefits being equal to at least three times the base
numerate established pursuant to the Borrower's Presidential decree No. 2120 dated March
15, 1995, or any other law establishing said minimum level (para 3.14); and
Conditions of Disbursements for Incremental Recurrent Expenditures for the Social Service
Component
(b)  disbursements for incremental recurrent expenditures will not be made unless the following
actions have been taken: (i) adoption of the annual work programs on the basis of
rationalization plans, subject to prior review and no objection by the Bank; (ii) the central
Government shall have established separate line items for project expenditures in the
national budget destined for the participating oblasts, the oblast governments will do the
same at the level of the oblasts' budgets for the participating cities, and the participating
cities shall include a similar line item in their own budgets; and (iii) participating city
governments will cofinance incremental recurrent costs on an increasing basis relative to
Bank financing and deposit their counterpart fiunds into the respective project accounts
according to financing plans in the annual work programs (para 3.46).
Dated Covenants
By S2ptember 15, 1995 and by same date each subsequent year
7.3   (a)  the participating cities will prepare draft annual work programs for the next year and shall
submit such work programs to the respective oblast (para 3.50);
By September 30, 1995 and by same date each subsequent year
(b)  the participating cities and oblasts shall agree on the terms and conditions of the work
programs for the next year and shall submit such work programs to the Borrower,
represented by the PCU (para 3.50);



Page 42                                                                         Chapter VII
By October 31, 1995 and by same date each subsequent year
(c) the PCU shall consolidate the annual work programs and submit them to the MOF and the
Bank for review and comment (paras 3.8, and 3.50);
By November 30, 1995 and by same date each subsequent year
(d)  the Borrower, following its review of the annual work programs and upon the Bank's
review of and no objection to such work programs, and taking into account the perfornance
of the participating oblasts and cities under the preceding annual work program, shall
formally adopt them and ensure that the participating oblasts and cities formally adopt such
work programs (para 3.50);
By December 31, 1995
(e)  design a comprehensive national strategy, satisfactory to the Bank, for the divestiture of
social assets of state-owned and state-controlled enterprises, and develop, as part of such
strategy a set of principles covering access to essential social services (para 3.31);
By February 15, 1996 and by same date each subsequent year
(f)  each department/agency and administrative unit of the Borrower involved in project
implementation will prepare an annual implementation progress report, which shall then be
made available to the Bank through the PCU (para 5.12);
By June 30, 1996
(g)  guidelines will be developed by the ES to modify its overall staffing distribution in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.9);
(h)  policies related to eligibility of unemployed for benefits beyond the existing six month
period will be adopted in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.14);
(i)  alternative support and training options will be defined for school graduates and other new
or returning entrants into the labor market (para 3.14);
(j) the procedures for applying for UB will be streamlined in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
and responsibility for approval for UB payments delegated by the existing commissions to
the staff of ES (para 3.15);
(k)  the current payment structure for participants in TES will be changed in accordance with
the revised structure of unemployment benefits and payments of TES will be above the
minimum level of UB (para 3.16);
(I)  the ES will develop a comprehensive strategy to contract training services to private and
public institutions capable of delivering job-oriented training courses (para 3.28);
(m) TAGs will be set up in each participating oblast (para 3.29);



Chapter VII                                                                     Paye 43
By June 30, 1997
(n ) the Borrower shall undertake a mid-term review of the implementation of the project in
consultation with, and in a manner satisfactory, to the Bank (para 5.13);
By September 30, 1997
(o ) prepare and furnish to the Bank a report regarding the results of the mid-term review,
including progress achieved in implementation of the project and measures recommended
to ensure the achievement of project objectives during the remainder of project life (para
5.13);
General Conditions
(p ) The PCU and PCC will be maintained throughout the project implementation period in a
manner and with staffing, funds, facilities and other resources satisfactory to the Bank
(paras 5.2 and 5.3);
(q)  Within one month of the end of each quarter in each Project Year, each department, agency
and administrative unit of the Borrower, involved in project implementation will prepare
quarterly progress reports for submission to the Bank through the PCU (para 5.12); and
Recommendation
7.4        Subject to the above, the proposed operation would provide a suitable basis for a loan of
US $41.1 million to the Republic of Kazakhstan.
May 1, 1995
M:\Inn\arl .may






MAP SECTION






IBRD 26467
50~                                 60-                                                                      80                                    90
.0~  BAL.        TrT
A                                                                UZBEKISANF  E D E R A T I O N                                                  T,
t . : :  , E . 0:    ;  '.j ;' f:b tT.:r-b~'
,-,Thr2I                                                                                          ZH EZKAZAKTANt j 2 H E K  A L A  E
ARO  LY-                                                            S       PROTECTION    P
A.>~~~~~~~~~~.
KTOBE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BLW1
A,'~'. h          ;N1 AITS      v                                                              iS
T U R K M E NISTEN  ZK                                                       iK                        A   S
,KDsho, ISTAN - ROADS
50 ~     ~                   \REPUBLIC                                                                                                              |      RAILROADS
                   ~~~~~ISLAMIC RE*)LI  ->                                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
KILO84ETORS    OF IR/AN                                                                                                                   @         rb  OBLAST CAPITALS
I   ~ ~ "AN,SA I 
O 10 200    10000       500   -o                                            *'              /     _ I            _J.'t   _ '_-                             OBIAST BOUINDARIES
MIIOS                             60                                  A                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FEERUARY T995






IBRD 26466
50                                          0                                         79-                                                                                       90o
T.x K,g-n     J    KAZAKHTR                                                                       S
R U S S I A N                             Tocoetyob,nsT C k                                                                         T.                       R U S S I A N
FEDERATIONT.FDR IO
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                               A
T.IOKSHETAU c                                                                                  J71 NETAU.
j C U ); ~~~1-i     Chpy                                                                                                                                                     SEm                                       NGOLIA
WSTa                                                                                                                                                                                            'MCANAU  - -K:  -.
KAZAKHSTAN                   .       AKTOB                                                                                                                      MEE
X Vj vra                                                             A  ROALC        KAPNET/RAGANERDA
SEMEI|T. T  o                     o  dNE O NuION
T,  .AROAD                                                                                                                                                n
-IlOMETERS   OFSAN IRANndZ                                                                       K 4,s                                                            OBLASTCAPITALS
13.1i A ~        ~KA K TATAN
ShoCIAL PRTCTO  PROJECT
0 ,00 200 3D0 400 \ .T U R K                  M EN ISTA N         70      '                                                                                                          EMPOYME-NTSERVAICESL COMOUNDRENT
MANGYSTAU ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       T i                                                        *       POJC CTE
'N                                                                          -      ROA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8,h.  dS-  .
'N~~~~~~  '~~~~~  a''                                       +-*   RAIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h.WrOdADS     -p .yjd-
0  15    2T    KI4EThS  O  IRN                                                /-A~O                        'a@ OEKSTCAPTAL
I    I  I                               -               '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  PUB    
/                                                                -.--   ORL~~~~~~~~~ASTAKHSNARNR
50  250  350  50                                  AFGHANISTAN   70                                             I.                      IN~~~~~~~OCIA    PRTERNTIONAONDAROJECT
UNEMPLOYMENT BY R     EREGIYON 9












