Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24398
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38960)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF USS 41.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
FOR A
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
06/25/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 1995)
Currency Unit = Tenge
1 Tenge = US$ .0163
US$ 1 = 61 Tenge
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager/Director:  Annette Dixon
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Alan Thompson



KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 7
6. Sustainability                                                                      8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   11
9. Partner Comments                                                                  12
10. Additional Information                                                           12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                23






Project ID: P008506                                     |Project Name: SOCIAL PROTECTION
Team Leader: Alan Thompson                              I TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      |Report Date: June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: SOCIAL PROTECTION                             L/C/TF Number: CPL-38960
Country/Department: KAZAKHSTAN                                         Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: SE - Labor Markets & Employment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/25/1994                            Effective: 05/30/1995         05/30/1995
Appraisal:  11/04/1994                               MTR: 10/13/1997           10/13/1997
Approval:  05/30/1995                             Closing: 06/30/2002         06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVT. OF KAZAKHSTAN/MIN. OF LABOR/OBLASTS ADMIN.
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                         Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Dennis de Tray                           Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:      Annette Dixon                            Robert B. Liebenthal
Team Leader at ICR:  Alan Thompson                            Betty Hanan
ICR Primary Author:  Elliott Hurwitz
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Timie: Yes
Introduction
In its post-1991 transition to a market economy, Kazakhstan endured a severe drop in income, and also
privatized many industrial enterprises. These macroeconomic difficulties, and the subsequent restructuring
of enterprises to meet the requirements of a market economy, were expected to create 2 critical social sector
issues: (1) how to prepare for the expected surge in unemployment associated with the transition; and (2)
how to maintain social services (e.g., health, education) that had traditionally been provided by these firms,



but which would be divested as they moved to become more competitive.
The Social Protection Project (SPP) was an innovative attempt to deal with these 2 issues. By
strengthening and modernizing the Employment Service (ES), the SPP was intended to bolster the country's
ability to handle the anticipated large increase in unemployed. And by providing and testing a mechanism
by which local governments could undertake to provide services that were being divested by enterprises, the
project could contribute to the maintenance of essential social services. The SPP complemented the
country's privatization process, as well as the Structural Adjustment Loan (approved one month after the
SPP in June, 1995).
Kazakhstan privatized 48 industrial enterprises in 1995, but 437 in 1996, and 608 in 1997. A total of 1,285
industrial enterprises was privatized from 1995-2000.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project sought to assist the Borrower to: (a) develop the capacity of the Employment Service to
manage the expected increase in the number of registered unemployed and attendant benefit claims
following the restructuring and privatization of enterprises; and (b) ensure continued delivery of essential
social services, by promoting orderly divestiture of social assets from enterprises, as well as efficient
management by municipalities of a unified system of social services.
The project was intended to be implemented with a view toward detemnining suitable models for the design
and implementation of a comprehensive national strategy for the divestiture of enterprise social assets,
thereby removing obstacles to restructuring and enhancing the competitiveness of enterprises. SPP would
also provide the institutional underpinning for the implementation of social policies supported by the SAL.
In fact, there was cross-conditionality between the SAL and the SPP, with SPP actions to assist the
Government to develop a strategy for divestiture of enterprise social assets helping to fulfill SAL
conditions. (However, the SAL was closed in 1996)
Relevance of Obiectives
Overall relevance of SPP objectives is considered as substantial. As discussed below in "Quality at
Entry," the ES objectives of the project were based on the assumption that there would be a surge in
unemployment. Although considered reasonable at project conception, unemployment did not rise to the
anticipated degree, and thus the efforts to strengthen the ES are assessed (in this ex-post evaluation) as
having only modest relevance. (Registered unemployment reached a peak of 6 percent in 1996, although
actual unemployment was estimated at 13 percent that year) The Social Services objectives, however, were
an innovative attempt to deal with the consequences for social services of the process of enterprise
privatization and restructuring-an integral part of the country's transition strategy-and thus were
substantially relevant to the country's development needs. It should be noted that the Social Services
component of the project comprised around two-thirds of project resources.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was intended to be achieved via two major components and associated sub-components:
1 .    Employment Services-USS 15.3 million (of original base costs)
- 2 -



1.1   Institutional strengthening-US$ 1.2 million
Skills development at the Republic and local levels in policy development, operations planning and
execution, financial management, and labor market analysis.
1.2   Improved operations and service delivery-US$13.7 million
Promulgation of new guidelines and procedures for basic Employment Office functions; establishment
of Model Offices in each oblast in the country, which would adopt more efficient procedures;
streamlined and modernized processes (including provision of computers); establishment of a
minimum level of unemployment benefits; improved service delivery
1.3   Pilot program for retraining unemployed-US$0.4 million
Intended to make programs more responsive to market demand
2.     Social Services-US$28.5 million
2.1    Kindergartens and health facilities
Facilitate transfer of responsibility to oblast and local governments by financing modest upgrading of
physical facilities; provision of some supplies and equipment; and provision of incremental
recurrent costs on a declining basis (90% in year 1; 75% in year 2; 45% in year 3; and 25% in
years 4 and 5); facilitate cost recovery.
Preparation of rationalization plans to increase efficiencies due to ineffective resource use, overlapping
jurisdictions, and the presence of excess capacity
3.    Institutional Support-US$2.6 million
Technical assistance in areas including financial management systems, oblast and city work
program development, and development of a national strategy for divestiture of enterprise social
assets
Two pilot locations were selected (Pavlodar and South Kazakhstan oblasts) and it was envisioned that the
techniques implemented and lessons leamed at these sites would be utilized on a national level. (For the ES
component, 20 Model Offices were established, including those in all of the country's oblasts)
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.
3.5 Oualitv at Entry:
Quality at entry is considered as satisfactory. The SPP was consistent with the CAS discussed by the
Board in August, 1993. The Social Services component was an innovative approach to facilitate the
orderly transfer of essential health and education services from enterprises that were restructuring to meet
competition.
The ES component was based on the assumption that there would be a surge in unemployment. While this
assumption was not borne out, it is the position of this ICR that such an assumption was reasonable at the
time that the SPP was identified. Based on experience in Eastern Europe, the "Kazakhstan: Economic
Report" (1994) estimated that open unemployment in Kazakhstan could rise from 1 percent at the end of
1993 to 10 percent at the end of 1995 and 12 percent by end-1996 (p. vii). The Report recommended
strengthening the administrative capacity of the Employment Service. And while the 1994 Economic
Report suggested that the Government determine which social services should be provided by the private
sector, it also stated that services which generated large positive externalities-such as basic education and
primary heath-should be financed by the state.
It is acknowledged that the transfer of social assets to municipalities placed a strain on their budgets.
However, until the GOK implemented major policy changes in 1998, the government met its financial
-3 -



obligations to municipalities in full, and each year Bank disbursements under SPP for recurrent incremental
costs were not made until formal GoK budgetary commitments were received.
At the time of project identification, the fiscal sustainability of the Employment Fund (EF) was not an
issue. Projections done in 1994-95 by project staff indicated that it had adequate resources, and it was only
later (1996-97) when some EF funds were diverted to non-core uses that its adequacy was called into
question.
The SPP reflected a poverty focus insofar as its purpose was to assure that basic social services would
continue to be available while these services were being eliminated by hard-pressed enterprises. And the
beneficiaries of the ES component were intended to be unemployed workers. Of the two pilot oblasts
selected, one-South Kazakhstan--had traditionally been one of the country's poorest, while the
other-Pavlodar-had been relatively well off. (Precise data were lacking during project identification) As
pilot locations, these two areas were selected because they reflected the country's diverse ethnic and
economic character, and also because both were reform-minded and enthusiastic about participating in this
innovative effort. This ownership and enthusiasm by local authorities, as well as by the Republic
Government (until 1998), were key elements in the project's success in its first 3 years of operation.
It should be noted that the Bank advised the Government not to utilize the EF for non-core uses.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Outcome is assessed as unsatisfactory.
From 1995 to 1998, the SPP was overall satisfactory in achieving its objectives. (See details in section 4.2)
However, apparently motivated by the August, 1998, Russian financial crisis, a fall in oil prices, (section
5.1), and an increase in the GoK fiscal deficit (see Table 1, below), in late 1998 the Republic introduced
drastic policv changes regarding social protection and employment services which completely undermined
the rationale for the SPP. In education, the 1999 state budget did not include allocations for pre-school
education, withdrawing this critical financial underpinning in December, 1998. In health, there were
significant policy changes in state financing of health services. In employment, the government abolished
the Employment Fund-the source of funding for unemployment assistance-and also abolished
unemployment benefits provided by the national government. Responsibility for the unemployed was
shifted to local governments, however many jurisdictions did not have the resources to address this
problem effectively. In early 1999, disbursements under the SPP declined steeply, and the project remained
suspended for over 2 years (more detail on this is provided below).
Table 1-Macroeconomic Performance, 1992-2001
1992     1993    1994     1995     1996     1997     1998    1999     2000  2001p
populaton               16.185   16.088   15.940  15.780   15.578   15.334   15.073  14.927   14.865  14.819
real GDP growth, %        -13.C   -9.6    -12.6     -8.2      0.5     1.7     -1.9      2.7      9.6    7.0
inflation, %              1623    1256     1158      35       39       17        7       8       13      9
fiscal balance, % of GDP   -6.9   -0.7     -6.5     -3.9     -5.3     -7.1    -8.0     -5.2     -1.0 2
0
current account, % of GDP  -0.4   -3.4     -5.3     -1.1     -3.6     -3.6    -5.6     -1.4      5.9   -3.5
Atlas GNP per capita, USD  126C   1590     1350     1260     1270     1350    1330    1230.0  1320.0
Exchange rate (average)   5.26   35.54    60.95    67.30    75.44    78.30   119.53  142.13
-4 -



Source: Country department
From 1999 to project close in 2001, there was no direct Bank involvement in the further pursuance of SPP
goals. Because of the implications of the Government's drastic policy changes, and the unraveling of most
project progress after 1998, the project is assessed as unsatisfactory overall in achieving its objectives.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Employment Services
Through 1998, considerable progress was made. Twenty Model Offices were established, at least one in
each oblast, with a modest upgrade of the physical facilities and equipment of each. Improved and more
efficient work flow and interview techniques, and a more "client friendly" approach were implemented.
Streamlined procedures for the registration of the unemployed and the calculation of benefits were
introduced (with training provided under the SPP). For example, staff were cross-trained so that a client
could obtain all services from one agent, eliminating the need to wait in multiple lines. Technical assistance
in policy formulation and labor market analysis was provided to top officials and managers through
workshops and study tours. An initial procurement of computers also helped facilitated ES work.
However, delays in the passage of the Employment Law were not helpful.' In both components,
procurement and utilization of works and materials were quite successful, with the exception of the large
ICB procurement of computers for the ES (discussed below under "Goverhment Performance").
It should be noted that while the ES was strengthened, through 1999 the poor macroeconomic environment
limited the extent to which the ES could actually place many of its clients. For example, one study found
that in the first seven months of 1997, only 15 percent of the registered unemployed could be referred to a
job; another estimate is that overall, the ES placed around 15-20 percent of those registered, although the
percentage varied substantially by location. (These estimates are of individuals placed by the ES, and
evidently do not include people who may have found work on their own)
In early 1999, unemployment benefits were abolished at the national level. In the following months, most
Model Offices were downsized, merged with other social service functions, or eliminated. Unemployment
benefits, funded from local budgets with no assistance from the Republic Government, were paid at very
low levels or not at all. The number of Ministry staff involved in this function at the Republican level fell
sharply, as did the number of regional staff.
Over the next few years, most of the benefits that had been achieved in the ES component were lost.
However, in a handful of cases, where local leaders showed a particular interest in addressing the problem
of unemployment, substantial services were maintained which reflected the improvements achieved under
the SPP. In Akmola and Kostanai oblasts, for example, this was the case, as oblast governments provided
the resources to preserve services and benefits. In Pavlodar, the ES continued to operate due to support by
the oblast and city governments. And most of the improvements achieved in the Model Office were
sustained in Karaganda, where the city government picked up the costs. However, these were very much the
exceptions.
Social Services
In this area, as well, considerable progress was made through 1998. Rationalization and cost-recovery
were proceeding well. Kindergartens and health facilities reduced costs-for example, by economizing on
- 5 -



energy use, more flexible operating hours and staffing, and improving facility utilization-and collected an
increasing proportion of costs from users (parents).
SPP supported the transfer from industrial enterprises to municipal governments of 24 kindergartens in
Pavlodar oblast and 37 in South Kazakhstan oblast. The proportion of children ages 4-7 who attended
kindergartens in both pilot locations was well above the national average. For example in Pavlodar, 30
percent of children age 4-7 were attending kindergartens in late 1998, as compared with only 11 percent
nationally. The Pavlodar city and oblast health departments were merged,' and between 1994 and 1997,
the number of hospital beds in Pavlodar oblast declined by 35%, and in South Kazakhstan Oblast by 17%.
As far as could be determined, the streamlining of health facilities achieved in the two pilot oblasts was not
reversed after 1998 (see Table 2 below). However, the merger of the Pavlodar health departments
continued until 2001, when it was reversed.
Table 2-Number of Hospitals in South Kazakhstan Oblast
1994      1      1995      I      1997      I        1998    I     2001
l  170 l           160             132              126             130*
*Plus 9 private hospitals
In the health area, 27 facilities were physically upgraded or repaired. Fifteen contracts were implemented
for medical equipment and/or supplies, which improved the quality and range of care that was provided (in
these pilot areas).
And, as required in the project, the Republic Government developed a national strategy and action plan for
the divestiture of social assets by enterprises. This strategy was not subsequently implemented, however.
But training and technical assistance succeeded in modestly upgrading the financial management skills of
social services staff in the pilot oblasts.
Starting in January, 1999, funds from the central government were no longer available to support the 2
social services. Nationwide, many clinics and kindergartens closed their doors. However, in the 2 SPP
pilot oblasts, while many kindergartens closed, for those which the Bank had selected for both physical and
budgetary support (on a declining basis), some officials reported that Bank assistance was critical during
1999 in providing a "bridge" until additional costs could be trimmed and other sources of funding found.
Directors had learned-some with Bank assistance-how to maintain many services even with a minimum
budget.
In the subsequent two years, some portion of the benefits achieved in the 2 pilot oblasts under the SPP were
retained. While the number of kindergartens declined substantially, the proportion of children attending
kindergarten in the pilot oblasts continued to be above the national average. The clinics that had been
renovated-with new roofs or new boilers, for example-continued to benefit from these improvements.
Those that had received diagnostic or therapeutic equipment continued to utilize this equipment, which was
maintained using oblast funds.
However, an effort to accomplish a similar change in South Kazakhstan was not successful.
It should be noted that the collection of data for this ICR was hindered by the fact that project implementation
essentially stopped in 1999, and that many officials who participated-especially at the oblast and municipal
level-could not be reached.
-6 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
It was not possible to calculate the ERR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
It was not possible to calculate the FRR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact (IDI) is assessed as negligible. While the project had considerable
potential to improve IDI, its ability to reach that potential was disrupted by the 1998 policy changes. A
further factor reducing IDI was institutional change and downsizing in the relevant agencies at the central
level, and downsizing of employment services at the local level. In 1996, for example, the ES was
reorganized and staff was reduced from 116 to 50 employees. This had a negative effect on the efficacy of
the training provided under the SPP. Later that year, the Ministry of Labor was merged with the Ministry
of Social Protection, and the ES staff was further reduced. The policy changes of 1998 led to further
reductions in staff. By 2001, hardly any of the individuals in Astana who had received training in the area
of Employment Services were still performing jobs in that area.
Despite the obstacles, some IDI was achieved at the oblast level. In the health area, some rationalization
was realized. And in the education area, managers and kindergarten directors learned to adjust to the lean
budgetary environment, in part with the help of financial management, logistical, and other skills imparted
by the SPP.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were several major economic developments which were evidently important in motivating the
govermment's 1998 policy changes:
* 1998 Russian financial crisis-In addition to the increasing GoK fiscal deficit, the 1998 Russian
financial crisis, with the depreciation of the ruble against the Tenge, had an adverse effect on Kazakh
exports.
* Oil prices-The price of oil fell substantially in 1998, reaching a low of US$11.80 per barrel in the
first quarter of 1999, before recovering to US$29.00 per barrel in the third quarter of 2000.
Diminishing oil revenue evidently added to Govenmment concem over the fiscal deficit, and may have
been a further rationale to the 1998 policy changes.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
* Macroeconomic Developments-As shown in Table 1, the country's GDP, which had fallen
considerably after independence, fell again in 1998, and the fiscal balance reached -8.0 percent of
GDP. The Tenge, stable in 1997, lost around 10 percent of its value against the U.S. dollar in 1998.
* In early 1998, the project PCU moved to Astana. The move proved disruptive because: some PCU
staff resigned rather than move; there was an initial lack of sufficient office space; and some
consultants did not move until later. The relocation of the PCU caused considerable disruption of
project management.
* In addition, there was considerable staff turnover. In the ES area, GoK staff who were trained under
the SPP were often promoted out of their positions, or left for other employers. While this built
national capacity, it did not have the intended effect of strengthening ES capacity.
- 7 -



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
None
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
In response to a request by the government, in February, 2000, the Bank cancelled US$14.2 million of the
SPP loan, leaving US$6.6 remaining. This was in the midst of the discussion of the expected
"restructuring" of the project to serve as a vehicle to provide TA support to the envisioned SPRAL. The
latter amount was subsequently canceled in July, 2001.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilitv rating:
For those benefits that were achieved, sustainability is assessed as likely.
As described earlier in Outcome, most relevant project objectives were not achieved. However, some
benefits were achieved at the local and oblast levels. For example, some kindergartens were sustained, and
the cost-saving skills developed during the SPP helped managers and directors to keep these facilities
operating through to the present, with every expectation that they will continue to operate in the future.
These facilities are currently being maintained using support from local and oblast sources, as well as fees
from parents. The repairs and renovations carried out under the SPP in kindergartens and health clinics are
for the most part intact, with operations and maintenance costs being paid from local budgets. A few local
employment offices have preserved the improved level of functioning achieved earlier. And health
equipment purchased under the project is in active use and is well-maintained. Local officials and health
managers are highly satisfied with the equipment and renovations achieved under SPP. The commitment of
local officials in sustaining these benefits has been critical. Therefore, for those benefits that were achieved,
sustainability is assessed as likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Because implementation of the SPP was essentially suspended for more than 2 years, and most objectives
were not achieved, no transitional arrangements to regular operations were made.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance was satisfactory overall.
Lending was satisfactory. Borrower participation was substantial during project preparation, both at the
central and regional levels. The SPP was very much a demand-driven project.
As noted earlier, the SPP overall was substantially relevant to the country's economic development needs.
The Social Services component was an innovative approach to facilitating the orderly transfer of essential
health and education services from enterprises that were restructuring to meet competition. This
component was complementary to the country's mass privatization strategy. The ES component was not as
relevant: the assumption that mass unemployment would occur was not bome out, and in this ex-post
evaluation it is acknowledged that this reduced the overall relevance of the project.
The SPP was an innovative attempt to respond to important challenges facing the country. The
involvement of local and oblast officials proved to be a positive element of project design. Consultant
assistance with procurement and technical questions augmented government capacity, and project
-8 -



management was generally successful until the policy changes of 1998.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the SPP is assessed as satisfactory overall. Assessment of SPP supervision can best be
assessed in three phases: (1) 1995-98; (2) 1998-99; and (3) 1999-2001.
(1) Supervision 1995-98: Supervision of the first 3 vears of project implementation was satisfactory,
especially considering that the project was innovative and that the environment was difficult. Technical
assistance and procurement advice was managed well, and the overall quality of advice provided was sound
and effective. (The prolonged delay in the ICB procurement of computers for the ES is discussed below
under "Borrower Performance") The Bank team worked effectively with both republic and local officials,
despite the turnover among GoK staff and the dislocations caused by the relocation of the PCU from
Almaty to Astana.
(2) Supervision 1998-99: Supervision in 1998-99 was satisfactory. In mid-1998 the project team became
aware that important policy changes affecting the project might soon be implemented, and in October,
1998, the Bank leamed that the GoK was highly likely to implement changes that would essentially render
irrelevant SPP development objectives (DOs). This actually did happen, abruptly, when the 1999 Budget
Law was promulgated and deleted funding for Social Services, undennining this project component The
GoK also passed a new Employment Law in December, 1998, which abolished the Employment Fund as of
January, 1999, and placed responsibility for the unemployed on the oblasts.
A QAG Quality of Supervision Assessment, conducted in July, 1999, found that SPP supervision was less
than satisfactory, or "marginal." The main points in the QAG report were:
1.     A major dialogue should have begun earlier as potential policy changes appeared likely which
would negatively affect the project.
2.     Management appeared not to have taken timely and proactive steps to deal with the policy changes
introduced. A much stronger intervention should have been undertaken to prevent this policy reversal, or if
reversal were not feasible, to restructure the project.
3.     Supervision reporting did not sufficiently highlight the negative impact on the project of the policy
changes.
This ICR iudzes that the main criticisms of the QAG report, points I and 2 above, are not well-founded.
but that point 3 is persuasive. Regarding point 1, the SPP team has shown that it was engaged in an
intensive and congenial dialogue with the authorities prior to and through the period of the policy changes.
The Bank provided the Government with a detailed note (September, 1998) advising of key issues that
needed to be considered in the context of the proposed policy changes. Technical assistance was also
offered in support of this work. At this time, the government asked the Bank to consider a Social
Protection Reform Adjustment Loan (SPRAL), which would assist the government to rationalize its social
assistance policy, and a detailed and intensive dialogue was started on SPRAL.
On point 2, QAG seems not to have realized that there was no question of preventing or reversing the
policy changes. The government was in a difficult fiscal situation, its largest trading partner (nearly 30
percent of exports in 1998) was in a severe financial crisis, and the GoK believed it had insufficient funding
to continue its current policy. In April, 1999, the SPP team agreed with the government that SPP should be
restructured, and its uncommitted funds used to support institutional strengthening necessary for
-9-



implementation of the proposed SPRAL. The proposed new project based on the restructured
SPP-SPRIL-was the basis for intensive discussion over the next months. (It is useful to note that this
same pattern had been followed with another loan, PRAL, which utilized a restructured component of an
investment project for complementary technical assistance) Consequently, this ICR concludes that project
and Bank management acted appropriately in response to this change in GoK policy.
Project reporting, however, was not sufficiently clear or consistent in stating that the 1998-99 policy
changes entirely undermined the rationale for the project. For example, the December, 1998 PSR states,
". .the policy changes by government have called into question the relevancy of the original development
objectives. These issues require further clarification from the government once a final decision is taken on
policy changes." This was after all funding had been withdrawn from kindergarten and health facilities,
and the Employment Fund and Unemployment Benefits had been abolished. This same December, 1998
PSR gave the project a Summary Risk Rating of "moderate," which surely understated risks that were
apparent by that time. A year later, the December, 1999 PSR states, "The overall development objectives
of this project are still valid."
Supervision 1999-2001: Although in September, 1998, the government asked the Bank to consider a
SPRAL, and in April, 1999 the SPP team agreed that the project should be restructured and uncommitted
funds used for TA to support SPRAL, as of this writing neither of these events has come to pass. The
Bank and the government spent nearly 21/2 years discussing the potential SPRAL, with SPP to be used for
complementary TA. While agreement on SPRAL was reached, the situation could not be brought to closure
because by that time the macroeconomic situation had changed and the GoK did not have an IMF program
in place-which in most cases is a prerequisite for a Bank adjustment loan. Therefore the restructuring of
the SPP, although agreed, was put on hold until SPRAL could be consummated, which did not occur, and
the SPP was eventually closed in June, 2001, one year ahead of schedule. It should be noted that in
February, 2000, in response to the government's request, the Bank did cancel US$14.1 million of the SPP
loan, leaving US$6.6 million remaining for potential use as TA to support SPRAL.
It is the iudgment of this ICR that, following the policy changes that completely undermined its
development objectives, the Bank should have given greater consideration to closing the SPP. The dialogue
on a potential SPRAL could still have continued, and if the GoK wished to have complementary TA
support, a separate loan could have been identified. However, it was clear to the team negotiating the
proposed SPRAL that if the SPP had been closed, the government would not have entered discussions
about a new TA loan to support SPRAL. This is confirmed by the fact that, in February, 2001, the GoK
issued a declaration that it would not permit any ministry to borrow for TA. It is the judgment of this ICR
that if the government was unwilling to request a separate TA loan, the existence of the SPP should not
have been seen as a "pot of money" readily available for that purpose. The continued payment of
commitment fees did not serve the Borrower's interest. Finally, after January, 1999, it seemed evident that
the Borrower was not acting in compliance with the Loan Agreement, Section 3.01, which states: "The
Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and shall: (I) carry out Parts A [Employment Services]... and B [Social Services] with due
diligence and efficiency."
It should be noted that in the period 1999-2001, the discussions noted above on a potential new TA loan
exerted a significant influence on Kazakhstan's social assistance policy, even though by that time formal
work on the SPP had ceased.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory
- 10 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance was unsatisfactory overall. Performance at both the oblast and national levels was
satisfactory until the policy changes of 1998, and unsatisfactory thereafter.
Borrower performance in preparation was satisfactory. The SPP was very much a demand-driven project,
and the Borrower was very enthusiastic and helpful in its preparation. At both the central and regional
levels, stakeholder commitment was high, and appropriate assistance was provided with technical and
economic preparation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was unsatisfactory. First, after the first few years of project
implementation the fund was increasingly used for non-core uses, i.e., other than for the payment of
unemployment benefits (e.g., for the construction of a large training center). In 1996 and 1997, the
financial condition of the EF deteriorated, until in 1998 it was abolished altogether. As described earlier,
Unemployment Benefits were also abolished, and responsibility for the unemployed was devolved to the
oblasts, which were not fiscally prepared for this burden. Additional policy changes on state financing of
health services, and the elimination of budget allocations for pre-school education negatively affected the
project, and, in toto, these policy changes completely undermined the project's development obiectives.
An additional factor was the government's inappropriate handling of the ICB procurement for computers
for the ES. This unfortunate affair dragged on for nearly a year and a half, and is described in detail in
section 10, below. The evaluation of the bids from pre-qualified suppliers (submitted 2/97) showed a clear
winner, but after some delay the government stated that it wished to have a new tender, which the Bank
believed was unjustified. In July, 1998, the General Public Prosecutor of Kazakhstan ordered the MLSP to
cancel the tender decision and award the contract to the bidder which had ranked second, an action the
Bank declined to approve. The procurement was never consummated.
It should also be noted that oblast and municipal authorities in the two pilot areas were consistently
supportive of the project goals throughout the project period.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory. The SPP PCU was staffed by civil
servants of the Ministry of Finance, which facilitated ownership and integration of the project during its
first few years of operation. SPP implemented 164 civil works contracts-121 for kindergartens, 27 for
hospitals and clinics, and 16 for model employment offices. Also, 15 contracts for medical equipment and
supplies were completed-all with positive results. While performance was generally satisfactory, as noted
earlier it was hindered by the government's relocation to Astana. In the midst of this move, it was
discovered that a number of computers provided by the project to the government had been removed from.
their intended location, and these were not recovered. Considering its successful overall implementation of
the project, and considering the burden imposed by the move to Astana, it is not considered that the loss of
this equipment is sufficient to make the assessment of agency performance less than satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower peiformance:
Overall Borrower performnance was unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*      An Investment Project not Linked to a Policy-Based Loan has Little Ability to Influence
- 11 -



Policy-If the SPP had been linked to, e.g., an aajusunent loan, it is possible tnat tme tank mignt nave
been able to mitigate the impact of the 1998 policy changes. (The SAL to which the SPP was a complement
was closed in 1996) Those changes had a substantial impact on the poor, but the Bank did not have an
effective mechanism in place by which to influence the policy.
*      Where Appropriate, the Bank should Give Greater Consideration to Project Closure-By
mid-1999, it was evident that the priorities of the government had changed and no longer included the goals
for which the SPP had been established. However, the project was not closed until 2 years later. In
situations such as these, the Bank should give greater consideration to project tennination.
*      Building Capacity Among Regional And Local Officials Can Yield Large Benefits-SPP
provided Technical Assistance to officials in the central government and at the regional and local levels.
Until 1998, this was quite successful, but even after the policy changes the commitment of some local
officials remained high. For the types of services that were the subject of the SPP, enhancing the skills and
management capabilities of staff at the point of service deliverv yielded considerable benefits.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower provided comments during the preparation of the ICR. The draft ICR was sent on April 17,
2002 to the Boroower who had no additional comments.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Procurement of Computer Equipment for the Employment Service
Chronology
Background:
Feb. 21,1997 - Bids were received from five of the six pre-qualified suppliers:
Bidders Name                             Quoted Bid price
Acer CIS Inc                            US $ 2,823,285.31
Bull S.A. (Europe)                         US $ 2,677,515.17
Hewlett Packard                           US $ 2,324,873.58
IBM                                  US $ 2,531,521.00
Siemens Nixdorf                     DM 4,045,562 (US $ 2,379,742)
Unisys                                  No response
May 13,1997 - Evaluation report sent to the Bank. The evaluation report stated that after conducting a
full evaluation exercise, based on the criteria defined within the bidding document, Siemens Nixdorf was
considered to have submitted the best overall proposal, offering the best value for money and providing
the most confidence in their ability to fulfill all the terms of the invitation to tender and it was recommended
- 12-



that Siemens be awarded the contract. Since there was a technical merit element: - the bid evaluation
formula and Siemens-Nixdorfs bid very close to the lowest price, the evaluation outcome contained no
unusual characteristics whatsoever.
Bid                Evaluated       Technical      Combined          Rank
contract price  score ratio     Price &
score ratio     (T/Tmax*0.2)    technical bid
(Cmin/C*0.8)                   score
Acer              0.7141            0.0931         0.8072            5
Bull               0.6944           0.2             0.8944            3
Hewlett Packard    0.8              0.1414          0.9414            2
IBM                0.7345           0.1598          0.8944            4
Siemens-Nixdorf   0.7750           0.1979         l 0.9729           1
May 22, 1997- World Bank sends no-objection to proceed with contract award.
May 30,1997- Task Manager (Ms. Hanan) received a memorandum from US Altemate ED,
conveying a complaint from Hewlett-Packard regarding the evaluation process.
June 5,1997- Division Chief EC3HR sends letter to Vice Minister of Finance, Mr. Mukashev
requesting the Borrower to respond to complaint from HP.
July 21-25, 1997- Task Manager is informed while on mission by Mr. Mukashev, Vice Minister,
Ministry of Finance that after lengthy investigation by the Govemment, the Ministry had decided to
proceed with the procurement on the basis of the evaluated tender. Mr. Mukashev instructed the
Director of the Social Sphere Department in the MOF to invite Siemens Nixdorf for negotiations.
This is noted in the Aide Memoire and the BTOR of July 30, 1997.
August 13,1997 - Bank received a letter from Minister Korzhova, Ministry of Labor and Social
Protection which states "We wish to confirm our interest for work further on the procurement of
computer equipment on the basis of a new tender."
August 22, 1997- Bank sent a letter to Minister Korzhova stating that before the Bank could
consider the option of a new tender, the Bank would need detailed justification on the reasons for
proposing a re-tender as well as a request to this effect from MOF.
September 17-22, 1997- The mission discussed with Minister Korzhova me computer procurement
and requested that the Bank be officially informed of a decision regarding a possible re-tender. This
is noted in the Aide Memoire and the BTOR of October 6, 1997.
October 27-November 11, 1997 - The mid-term review mission again raised this issue with Vice
Minister of Finance Mukashev and Minister of Labor and Social Protection Korzhova. The mission
was verbally informed that the Government wished to re-tender and the mission's response was that
the Bank would require a written request and justifications to consider the matter. The reasons given
by the Ministry of Labor and Social protection, verbally, were that their computer needs had changed,
including number of computers as well as technical specifications. This is noted in the Aide Memoire
- 13 -



and Supervision Report of November 24, 1997.
November 18, 1997- Letter to Deputy Minister Mukashev confirms the findings of the Mid Term
review mission and specifically requests the Government, once again, for its final position on this matter.
December 11,1997 - The Bank receives a letter from Mr. T. Kollen, President of Swedish Projects
on behalf of their client Siemens Nixdorf, inforning the Bank of their efforts to get information from the
Ministry of Finance as to when they will be invited to negotiate a contract and asking the Bank to take
action.
December 18, 1997 - The Bank replied to Mr. Kollen stating that this issue will be raised once again during
the next mission to Kazakhstan in early January. Task Manager met with Mr. Sethi (RPA) to review the
situation and Mr. Sethi recommended to write a letter to the Government stating the long delays in
proceeding with contract award and that the Bank was considering misprocurement. Mrs. Hanan
drafted the letter and requested Mr. T. Hassan (LEGEC) to review it. After discussing the issue,
Mr. Hassan recommended not sending the letter at this time, and instead, given that the next mission
to Kazakhstan was due soon, to address the matter again during the mission.
January 9,1998 - Electronic mail from Mr. Emsing, Swedish Projects, requesting the Bank's support in
having the matter resolved with the Kazakhstan Government
January 12, 1998 - During the pre-appraisal mission of the Kazakhstan Health project, Task Manager
(Ms. Hanan) discussed the issue with the Minister of Labor and the Chairman of the Committee of
External Loans(CEL); informing them also of Mr. Sethi's position in the matter, i.e. consideration of
misprocurement.
February 2, 1998- Task Manager raised the issue one more time to the Chairman of CEL during
the Chairman's visit to Washington.
March 3,1998 - Mr. Fred King (ECC08) received a call from Swedish Projects making their position
known that if the Bank allowed for re-bidding, they would not only complain to the EDs, but also
Chancellor Kohl, G7 and others.
March 12,1998 - After discussing the situation with the RPA's office, a letter was sent to Mr. Mynbaev,
Minister of Finance. The letter noted that a considerable amount of time had passed since the bid
evaluation report and Bank's no-objection, and that in spite of numerous correspondence and verbal
communication, no contract had been awarded even though bids were opened on Feb. 21, 1997.
April 24, 1998 - The Chairman of CEL, Mr. Zeinelgabdin wrote to Mr. C. Lovelace, Director HD Sector
in response to the Banks letter of 3/12/98 stating that since receiving the Bank's no-objection to the
evaluation report back in May 1997 the contract had not been awarded to the winner due to reasons not
of their making. Bid validity expired in Aug. 20, 1997 and had not been extended. The letter- also
contained a request from the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection to change the specifications for
the computer equipment and considering the time lapsed ind rapid technology development, they
asked the Bank to consider the possibility of re-bidding.
May 5, 1998 - The Bank responded to the letter of the CEL Chairman, informing him that the
Bank did not agree with his request as proposed and requested the following information in order
- 14 -



to give the request further consideration: a) extent of the changes in the specifications for the
computer equipment from the original bid documents; b) changes in the quantities now required
to serve the needs of the combined Ministries (former Ministries of Labor and of Social Protectio:
and c) network requirements for the combined Ministries and all other relevant information to hel
the Bank assess the request for re-bidding.
May 22, 1998 - Mr. Ileuov's, Deputy Chairman of CEL, response to the Bank provided: a)
specifications revisions from the original bid documents; and b) changes in the quantities per the
new administrative and territorial restructuring of the Republic of Kazakhstan. In his letter
Mr. Ileuov asked for no-objection to re-bidding giving the changes above.
May 28, 1998 - After discussion with the RPA and Information Technology specialist who
evaluated the revised specifications and quantities, the Bank sent a letter to the CEL stating that
" After review of the proposed equipment and approach, we find that the character and contents
of the procurement have not changed compared to the original bidding. Rather, the proposed new
server and workstation specifications are very much in line with the previous objectives, and to a
large extent merely updated for current technology. The revised quantities are also well within an
acceptable variation range. Given this situation, the Bank is unable to agree with the proposed
re-tendering. We, therefore, would expect you to initiate discussions with Siemens-Nixdorf, the
company previously selected as the lowest evaluated bidder and cleared for award, with a view
to adjusting and finalizing the contract with them."
June 30,1998 - Letter from Minister Khorzova stating that "Having examined the results of the tender,
the General Public Prosecutor Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan ordered to cancel the Tender
Commission decision and to award the contract to Hewlett Packard." In her letter she also mentions
that the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection had received a letter from the Committee for External
Loans dated 6/15/98 in which the CEL stated the "impossibility of conclusion of the contract with
Siemens- Nixdorf and its decision on non-procurement of computers", likely related to the same
ruling by the General Public Prosecutors Office.
July 6, 1998- Letter from the Chairman of CEL asking for no-objection to re-bidding.
July 21, 1998 - A draft letter (for Bank's comments) to Mr. Kodera from Minister Khorzova
was received stating that "As the results of the examination by the competent organs of the tender
for procurement of computer equipment for Model Centers of Employment of the Ministry of Labor,
there were facts of the biased evaluation of the bids. The General Public Prosecutor Office of the
Republic of Kazakhstan had ordered to the Ministry of Social Protection and the Ministry of Finance
to cancel the tender decision on the award of the contract to Siemens and to award the contract to
Hewlett Packard. Taking into consideration that the award of the contract to Siemens was approved
by the Bank, we have no opportunity either to cancel the decision of the Tender Commission or to
conclude the contract with this firm. Based on the above and as far as the court decision (General
Public Prosecutor Office) can be appealed against only by the Supreme Court of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, we kindly ask your no-objection for a new tender."
Given that this case is now being challenged in court, we are seeking your advice and recommendation
on how to proceed and what additional information if any we need to obtain in order for you to examine
the documentation. In order to expedite a decision, I would appreciate a meeting with you along with
the RPA and the Director's office. We have acknowledged receipt of all recent correspondence and have
told the Government that the matter is under review by the different departments within the Bank and
- 15 -



that a response will be sent promptly.
- 16-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
-~ *indicator/Matrix-          -           Projected in last PSR- -  . .  .       ActuaULatest Estimate
- Number of key staff trained, i.e. completed  All staff in Model Offices      NA (1)
study tours and local workshops as well as
seminars;
- Labor Market Information and statistics  To be accomplished in stages for the whole  NA (1)
system upgraded;                       country
- Enactment of legislation related to  Awaiting enactment                      Not done
employment policy and administration of
Employment Service;
- Number of Model Employment Offices   20                                     NA (1)
established and operating;
- Percentage of employment offices using  As demonstrated in Model Offices, expected  NA (1)
improved operating procedures for      to be rolled out to all ES offices.
registration of unemployed and overall service
delivery;
(1) This information was not available as of the time of the ICR mission, as project progress in this area
was curtailed in 1998 and the PIU staff was not available.
Output Indicators:
|J         - I7ndicator/Matrix '  ;              Pojected in iastPSR.       -          ActuaULatest Estirmate     -
see above
End of project
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Data on project costs and financing by component and by procurement arrangement could not be obtained
because project progress was largely curtailed in 1998 and the PIU staff was not available to provide these
data. On an overall basis, as noted earlier in February, 2000 the Bank cancelled US$14.2 million of the
SPP loan, leaving US$6.6 remaining. This was in the midst of the discussion of the expected
"restructuring" of the project to serve as a vehicle to provide TA support to the envisioned SPRAL. The
latter amount was subsequently canceled in July, 200l.
- 18 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
It was not possible to calculate the economic costs and benefits.
- 19-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
'(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year.    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
2/94                              Task Leader, Social Security
Specialist, Survey Specialist, IT
Specialist, PSD Specialist
5/94                             Task Leader, ES Specialists (6),
Survey Specialist, Economists
(2), PSD Specialist
7/94                             Task Leader, Economist, ES
Specialists (4), PSD Specialist
9/94                              Task Leader, Economist, ES
Specialists (2)
12/94                            Task Leader, Economist (2), ES
Specialists (4), PSD Specialist,
Procurement Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
3/95                             Task Leader, Economist, ES
Specialist
Supervision
7/95                             Task Leader, Employment             S             S
Services Specialist,
Economist, Financial
Management Specialist
11/95                            Task Leader, Employment             S             S
Services Specialist, Economist,
Financial Management Specialist
3/96                              Task Leader, Employment            S             S
Services Specialist, Economist,
Financial Management
Specialist, Health Economist
10/96                            Task Leader, Employment             S             S
Services Specialist, Economist,
Financial Management
Specialist, Procurement
Specialist
5/97                             Task Leader, Employment             S             S
Services Specialist, Health
Economist, Financial
Management Specialist
12/97                            Task Leader, Employment             S             S
Services Specialist, Economist,
Financial Management Specialist
5/98                             Task Leader, Operations Analyst     S             S
(2), Procurement Analyst
12/98                            Task Leader, Economist,             S             S
Financial Management
- 20 -



Specialist, Operations Analyst,
Procurement Analyst
6/99                            Task Leader, Economist,            U             U
Financial Management
Specialist, Operations Analyst,
Procurement Analyst
12/99                           Task Leader, Operations Analyst    U             U
(2), Procurement Specialist,
Program Assistani
6/01                            Task Leader, Operations Analyst    U             U
(2)
ICR
11/01                            ICR Specialist                    U            U
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  |                Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$. ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 *                       263.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                      *                          *
Supervision                                *                       168.4
ICR**
Total                                      *                       432.0
*information was not available
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H OSU*M        O N  O NA
DSector Policies                      O H   OSUOM      * N  O NA
D Physical                            O H   OSU*M      O N  O NA
E Financial                            O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Institutional Development            0 H OSU O M    * N  0 NA
Il Environmental                       O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
II Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      * N  O NA
O Gender                        OH OSUOM ON *NA
D Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
E Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   * N 0 NA
El Public sector management            0 H  O SU O M   0 N 0 NA
El Other (Please specify)              O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
OD Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU    O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
OI Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       OU    O HU
OI Overall                                         OHS OS        * U   O HU
- 23



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- 24 -












OMAGING
Report No.;        24398
Type:     ICR



