Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13690-KZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
VOLUME II
(ANNEXES)
MAY 1, 1995
Human Resources Division
Country Department III



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(per US$)
September 1994 = 50 Tenge
December 1994 = 54 Tenge
February 1995     60 Tenge
April 1995        61 Tenge
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(SI, "Metric System")
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CC             Component Coordinator
CEE            Central and Eastern Europe
DOE            Department of Employment
ECA            Europe and Central Asia
EF            Employment Fund
EO            Employment Office
ES             Employment Service
FSU            Former Soviet Union
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Agency
IMF            International Monetary Fund
IS            International Shopping
LIB            Limited International Bidding
MIS            Management Information System
MO             Model Office
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOL            Ministry of Labor
NS             National Shopping
OED            Operations and Evaluation Department
PA             Project Account
PCC            Project Coordination Committee
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PF             Pension Fund
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PTU            Vocational Training School
SA             Special Account
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
STF            Systemic Transformation Facility
TA             Technical Assistance
TAG            Technical Advisory Group
TES            Temporary Employment Scheme
UB             Unemployment Benefit
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
WP             Work Program
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
JanuaFy I to December 31



KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
VOLUME II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ANNEX 1.   Memorandum of Understanding on Social Asset Divestiture and
Unemployment Policy ......................................  1
ANNEX 2.   Employment Services Component ......................   6
A. Background ......................  6
B. Employment Services ....................................  6
C. Strengthening Management System  ..........................   13
D. Active Intervention Measures ..............................   14
E.  Strengthening the Employment Service  .......................  16
ANNEX 2A.  Labor Market Trends  ...............             ..        ....................   19
A. Introduction .........................................  19
B. Migration ..................................... 21
C. Economic and Social Profile of the Labor Market .....        ............  22
D. Transition and Labor Market Adjustment ......          ................   24
E. Short and Medium Term Labor Market Issues  ......           .............  30
ANNEX 2B.  Gender Targeted Training  ..................................   32
A. Background ..................................... 32
B. The Training Sub-Component .       .............................   33
C. Specific Proposals for Funding ............         .................   34
ANNEX 2C.  Impacts of Expenditure and Revenue Patterns on the
Employment Fund  .....................................    36
ANNEX 3.   Detailed Features of Social Services Component         ..40
A. Background .40
B. Project Approach to Individual Types of Social Assets .41
C. Features of Project Design and Implementation .42
D. Sustainability of Services .43
ANNEX 3B.  Rationalization Plans ...................................   54
A. Background ................................... 54
B. Common Assumptions in Rationalization Plans ......         .............  55
C. Overall Inventory of Social Assets . ...........................   56
D. Detailed City Inventories and Financing Plans  ......      .............  58
E. Detailed City Rationalization Plans  ..........      ................   70



ANNEX  3C.   Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Services  ........ ..                         ............   82
A. Monitoring .......................................... 82
B. Evaluation  . .........................................    84
C. Structure ...........................................   84
ANNEX 3D.   Flow  of Funds from  Central to Local Budgets  ........                   ..       ............   85
A. Existing Budgetary System   ...............................   85
B. Municipal Budgets ..............                     .......................   85
C. Municipal Payment System   ...............................   87
D. Proposed Funds Flow Mechanisms  ..........................   87
ANNEX 4.  Sununary of Technical Assistance Training .90
ANNEX 4A.   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Staff and Component
Coordinators .92
Introduction .92
Employment Service Component .95
Social Service Component .100
Terms of Reference of the Components Coordinators .102
ANNEX  5.         Implementation Mechanisms             ...............            ..................  106
A. Overall Implementation Coordination  .........................  106
B. Implementation of Components .............................  106
C. Annual Work Programs and Budgets  .........................  107
ANNEX 6.          Project Coordination Unit .............. ..                    ...................  109
A. Project Coordination Unit Overview    .........................  109
B. PCU  Organization and Staffing  .............................  110
C. Budget ........1...................................   111
D. Record Keeping, Reporting and Evaluation  .....................  112
E. Financial Management and Accounting Control ...................   112
ANNEX 7.          Performance Monitoring Indicators             .............          ................  113
A. Employment Services Component  ...........................  113
B. Social Services Component  ...............................  120
ANNEX 8.  Summary Cost Tables . ..................................... 124
ANNEX 9.          Implementation Schedule  ...........                   ........................  130
ANNEX  10.   Project Supervision Plan ............                       ........................  138
ANNEX  11.   Estimated IBRD  Disbursement ................................  141
ANNEX  12.   Procurement Arrangements ..........                          ........................  142



KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 1. MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ON SOCIAL ASSET
DIVESTITURE AND UNEMPLOYMENT POLICY
March 25, 1995
Mr. Gautam Kaji
Acting President
World Bank
1818 H St. N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Kaji:
1.           As you know, Kazakhstan is implementing a comprehensive structural reform program
aimed at moving the country toward a market economy. This program has been supported by a
Rehabilitation Loan from the World Bank and an Upper Credit Tranche Standby Arrangement with the
IMF. A proposed Structural Adjustment Loan has been designed for Bank-financing.
2.           The Government's structural reform  agenda is giving priority to: (a) developing
competitive markets throughout the country; (b) reforming the enterprise and financial sectors; (c) putting
in place appropriate labor/social policies; (d) resolving bottlenecks in infrastructure and energy; and (e)
cleaning up the environment. Simultaneous progress on all fronts of the structural reform agenda is
essential for achieving stabilization.
3.           Privatization and enterprise reform is a central tenet of the Government's reform strategy.
In the past, state enterprises in Kazakhstan have owned and operated social facilities. These include
hospitals, polyclinics, kindergartens, summer camps, sports and recreational facilities, sanatoria, and
housing and other utilities. This pattern of social service provision is no longer tenable as enterprises
attempt to compete in the emerging market-based economy. Divestiture of social assets and the
concomitant reduction of costs and social liability is crucial to the Government's policy of enterprise and
social reform. It is also crucial to eliminate any incentives for workers to remain in enterprises simply
because they want to preserve their accessibility to social services provided by them.
4.           Local governments have to accommodate facilities divested from restructuring enterprises
in situations where their existing social services are already under-financed. Basic social services have
experienced budgetary decline of 40% in real terms since 1990, and over 80% of the health budget is
now allocated to salaries and essential utilities. Many social facilities, both ex-enterprise and municipal,
are operating at minimal levels due to a severe lack of critical equipment and consumables, and to a
significant skilled staff shortage, their departure to other countries because of a low prestige of their
work, low salaries, lack of equipment and supplies. In the short term, the sustainability of social services
depends more on increasing the availability of operating resources than investment capital. Local
govermments must also rationalize the structure and delivery of all essential social services, regardless of
their origin. Some facilities should be merged or closed, and others should be privatized, cost recovery



Page 2                                                                               ANNEX 1
should be increased. Technical and financial support to local governments is critical during this period
of transition for essential recurrent expenditures, rehabilitation of facilities and rationalization of the
overall framework for social services.
5.            Enterprise restructuring and privatization is leading to higher levels of unemployment,
particularly considering the past excessive staffing in state enterprises. Although only around 100,000
people were registered as unemployed at the end of 1994, estimates of actual unemployed (including
hidden unemployment) were around 550,000. The Government recognizes that unemployment could
reach 1 million over the next two years, and that measures to promote labor adjustment and to establish
a viable social safety net are urgently needed. This would include programs to protect the unemployed
as well as a strategy to ensure the delivery of social services.
Rationalization of Social Services
6.            The Government will carry out an inventory of enterprise social assets and design a
comprehensive national strategy for their divestiture throughout the country. The strategy will aim at
preserving essential priority services to as large.a population as possible, consistent with fiscal constraints.
The strategy will be based on demographic characteristics, will specify appropriate service levels and
standards, and will include estimated operating costs. In view of its close involvement with the program,
the World Bank will be asked to review and comment on the draft National Strategy. The Government
intends to implement a pilot program in two oblasts (South Kazakhstan and Pavlodar) and has requested
World Bank financial support for this. The pilot program has been designed to ensure that it is replicable
throughout the rest of the country.
7.            Definition of essential services. The Government recognizes that some basic social
services need to be transferred from enterprises to local authorities in order to facilitate the process of
enterprise restructuring and to ensure the continued operation of essential social services. However, it
also believes that some social services previously provided by enterprises should be restructured or
privatized. The main criteria for the selection of social services, the operation of which should be
continued by the local authorities, would be those with significant public benefits and social externalities,
and for which privatization is not considered to be an option at least in the foreseeable future. These
would include polyclinics (secondary level hospitals) and kindergartens. Excluded would be sports and
recreational facilities, summer camps, sanatoria, and housing. Some essential social services with large
public benefits could be operated privately and this would be encouraged where possible, but in the short
term the scope for this is small and the divestiture needs of the enterprises are imminent. In due course,
as the private sector develops, opportunities for private management of essential services will be pursued.
8.            General service standards. The Government recognizes that the standards and norms
of the divested social services should be unified with those of comparable services run by the local
authorities, and that in general the standards and norms of social services previously operated by
enterprises will need to be reduced to fall within expected availability of fiscal resources. For example,
the ratio of children to teachers in the kindergartens will be expected to increase. Other ways of reducing
average unit costs and discrepancies in service provision between different localities will also be
examined. Similarly in the health sector, a review will be undertaken of appropriate levels of staffing
and infrastructure (including hospital beds), and also of possible reforms in budgeting and accounting to
facilitate greater efficiency and flexibility in the use of resources. The Government recognizes that there
is considerable over-utilization of existing health services and that average lengths of stay in hospitals are



ANNEX 1                                                                                Page 3
too long. Efforts will be made to reduce them. At the same time, the purpose of the national strategy
is to integrate and rationalize services at the local level, not to undertake comprehensive sectoral reform.
9.            Delineation of responsibilities. Basic social services are owned and operated by local
governments, either raion or municipal authorities. Higher level social services, such as regional referral
hospitals, are operated directly by the oblast governments. Essential social services which are divested
from enterprises, on the other hand, will be operated by the raions or municipal authority.
10.           Cost Recovery. The Government is revising a system of health financing. Considerations
are being given to the introduction of health insurance as an additional source of financing. At the same
time each group of population will have an access to a guaranteed package of free health services to be
financed from health insurance revenues. Legal mechanisms for introduction of user charges for health
services are being developed. The schedule of fees is to be designed; as well as standard fees throughout
the country. Fee revenue will be kept largely at the point of collection in order to provide maximum
incentives to the service provider. The effect of the new system of user charges will be monitored
carefully. In the education sector, fees will be raised for kindergarten attendance. Considerations will
be given to the design of mechanisms to ensure the continuous access to kindergartens of children of poor
families.
11.           Measures for local fiscal autonomy.  Government policy is to mandate local
administrations to continue the delivery of social services relinquished by enterprises and deemed
essential. This would be done within a rationalized system of service provision. In some cases, it will
be possible for enterprises and local authorities to enter into temporary arrangements so that part of the
incremental cost accruing to the authorities could be met by the enterprises. However, in most cases the
operation of social services previously run by enterprises will imply additional recurrent costs for local
authorities, although these will be reduced by rationalization. The local budgets will benefit from
increased tax revenues arising from enterprises being able to operate more productively as a result of their
releasee from social sector obligations. Ways will also be explored to allow local authorities greater
fiscal autonomy and increased revenue sharing to cover the costs of social services provision. In
addition, consideration will be given to allowing local authorities to retain some of the revenues from the
sale or rent of non-essential social infrastructure. However, until local governments have an independent
and sufficient financial base, provision will be made in the central budget to be presented to Parliament
for the required incremental costs of social services taken over from enterprises.
Unemployment Policy
12.           The Government is concerned about the social impact of the increase in open
unemployment which has already begun and is forecast to accelerate in the months ahead. Labor mobility
must be increased and workers should transfer from inefficient activities to new opportunities for
economic growth. The Government is aware, however, that the current system of Unemployment
Benefits (UB) has several weaknesses: the level of benefits is too low to provide significant relief or an
effective inducement for employees to accept retrenchment; the administration of benefits is unduly
complicated; the eligibility for UB overly restrictive in some ways. The structure of UB also needs to
be reconsidered in ways which will protect those most in need while avoiding work disincentives for other
groups. To address these concerns, the Government will implement a series of reforms.
13.           First, the financial administration of the Employment Fund will be changed and its
financial viability enhanced. Low priority activities (including for any wage subsidies and job creation



Pape 4                                                                           ANNEX 1
through credit schemes) will be discontinued. The use of the Employment Fund for non-employment
activities will be discontinued and the expenditure for the Fund will be made in accordance with the
Republican Program of Employment and the current labor market situation. By 1996 the expenditures
related to immigration will be completed from the Employment Fund. The revenue base for the Fund
will be broadened; the standard rates of contribution by employers will be extended to the agricultural
and budgetary sectors by 1996; and an employee-based contribution will be introduced at the same time.
The levels of both employer and employee contributions will be determined from time to time after a
careful and continual monitoring of the Fund, in the light of developments in the labor market, to ensure
its continuing viability as an independent Fund.
14.          Second, the systems for calculating UB will be restructured:
(a)    the basic level of UB will be determined on the basis of the minimum compensation (as
approved by legislation) paid to employees in the budgetary sector;
(b)   the structure for the payment of UB will be as follows:
(i)    school leavers will not be eligible for UB but will instead receive information
about their prospects and, as far as practicable, undertake further education or
training or be engaged on Temporary Employment Schemes (TES); participation
in either training or TES will then enable participants to build up a work history
and, consequently, eligibility for UB;
(ii)   students leaving post-secondary education and women returning to the labor
market after maternity leave will be eligible to receive the basic rate;
(iii)   unemployed workers in the agricultural or budgetary sectors will receive one or
two times the basic rate depending on their previous earnings or on other suitable
employment-related criteria. Guidelines will be prepared to define the criteria;
(iv)   other than the persons described in (ii) above, no benefits will be paid to people
who have not worked before, although such people will still be eligible to
participate in training or TES and, under separate eligibility, could still have
access to family allowances. Benefits will not be payable to people who separate
from a job voluntarily (guidelines will be prepared for Employment Service staff
to determine eligibility);
(v)    retrenched workers will receive two or three times the basic rate depending on
their previous earnings or on other suitable employment-related criteria.
Guidelines will be prepared to define the criteria; and
(vi)   unemployed workers engaged in training and TES will receive a slightly higher
amount than their UB entitlement.
(c)    unemployed people currently have eligibility for UB for only six months. If they have
been unable to find work within this time, they will be allowed to reapply for a furter
six months of UB provided they are willing to participate in TES when these are
available. Extension of benefits will only be granted in areas of particularly high



ANNEX 1                                                                           Page S
unemployment. Guidelines will be prepared to cover the conditions under which an
extension may be granted including covering the needs of people who are close to
retirement and the possible application of a means-test.
(d)   in view of the increases proposed in the level of UB, additional payments for dependents
would no longer be paid; however, recipients of UB may still apply for payments under
the separate family allowances provided they meet the income test provisions applying
in that scheme;
(e)   the pension rights of retrenched workers will be protected; and
(f)   the present obligation of employers for severance payments will be discontinued.
15.          Third, the administration of the ES will be improved. The process of registration and
application for UB will be strearnlined by changing the functions of the existing Commissions which
would act in special cases only. Instead, decisions on eligibility for UB would normally be made by the
ES staff themselves. A "work test" will be introduced to ensure that no one will receive UB if a suitable
work opportunity arises.
16.          To support the program of reform for social protection laid out in this letter, the
Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan has requested a Social Protection Loan from the World Bank
in an amount of US$41.1 million.
Sincerely yours,
Viktor Sobolev
Deputy Prime Minister
Republic of Kazakhstan






KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 2. EMPLOYMENT SERVICES COMPONENT
A. Background
1.           A project preparation team from the Australian Department of Employment, Education
and Training (DEET) worked in Kazakhstan for 7 weeks in May-June 1994 to: (i) assist the Government
to prepare the strategy and action plan for the strengthening of the ES; and (ii) provide some initial
technical assistance to restructure the operations of the Employment Service (ES). As part of this work,
the consultants reviewed Unemployment Benefit (UB) administration and current registration procedures
and practices in the ES, and also examined the nature and extent of existing public works (PS) programs
and retraining arrangements for the unemployed.
2.           A number of policy issues were identified during the review regarding the: (i) need to
simplify and standardize the system of calculating UB; (ii) level and duration of UB (including for the
long-term unemployed); (iii) the requirement for notification by employers of vacancies to the ES; (iv)
procedures for registration and entitlement of UB; (v) responsibility of employers for funding severance
pay and retraining costs of retrenched workers; and (vi) Public Works programs and retraining of
unemployed workers.
3.           The preparation team worked with relevant officials in the ES to design a comprehensive
five-year plan for the ES. Valuable input was received from the Regional Conference of Oblast and
District Managers held at Pavlodar and the team also conducted a number of workshops with a range of
ES staff to ensure that extensive consultation and a wide rage of views were incorporated into the
development phase.
B. Employment Services
4.           The Ministry of Labor (MOL) is responsible for the operation of the ES through the
Department of Employment (DOE). It has a full-time staff of approximately 2,650 and is structured on
a National (Republic), Regional (Oblast) and District Office (Raion) level. In addition, there are about
1000 ancillary staff, drivers cleaners, security staff etc., many of whom are employed on a part time
basis. Apart from the Republic Office based in Almaty, there are offices in each of the 21 Oblasts, and
300 Raion offices with staffing levels ranging from 4 up to 18.
Functions of the Employment Service
5.           The main functions of the ES as described in their regulations are:
*     to develop and realize state policy in the employment and social protection of the
unemployed;
*     to analyze and forecast the labor market situation; develop and implement employment
programs;



Page 7                                                                             ANNEX 2
*      to improve the job placement process, and develop specific programs for the socially
vulnerable;
*      to interact with state management bodies, employers and trade unions on the problems
of employment and social protection of the unemployed;
*      to develop legislative and policy statements on employment problems;
*      to work with international cooperation in resolving employment problems;
Employment Fund
6.            Until recently, the ES covered its operational, program and unemployment expenditure
from the Employment Fund (EF), which was generated by a levy on employers. Falling collections and
a reduction in the levy from 3% to 2% have necessitated a change to the Department's funding
arrangements and these are now allocated as part of the government budgetary process. There are claims
by operational and regional managers that this change has already led to a reduction in the level of
funding provided to the ES and consequently a reduction in their ability to deliver services and programs
effectively.
7.            The fund can be used for any of the following:
*      payment of UB stipends and material aid,
*      payment during temporary invalidity,
*      training and retraining of the unemployed or retrenched,
*      paid public works,
*      lump sum allowances for the unemployed,
*      maintaining the state ES,
*      funding research into employment problems,
*      international cooperation,
*      payment of migration costs.
8.            The Government has a policy of financial support for immigrants returning to Kazakhstan
but there is no real justification for these costs to be met from the EFV. The most immediate effect of
the change, which took place when the EF was included in the central budget was the loss of reserves
to allow immediate responses to increased unemployment, and the loss of the additional revenue from
interest. Several Oblast (or City Offices) had written to the President asking for his intervention as they
had no funds to continue supporting the unemployed through benefits. While the situation persisted
payment of UB was decided by the amount of money available and not the claimant's entitlement. More
generally, it had also considerable impact on the cost constraints applying on the ES with less flexibility
than it had under the previous arrangements when the EF was independent. As unemployment grows,
the issue inevitably facing the Goverrnent will be the extent to which it is willing and able to provide
direct assistance to the unemployed through welfare payments.
As part of a policy reform agreed with the Government in the context of the proposed SAL, agreement has been reached with the
government regarding the non use of EF funds for non employment activities, and the removal of the EF from the centra budgeL



ANNEX  2                                                                               Page 8
9.            Another area of concern is the level of collections of the EF levy. If the ES is to continue
to calculate and monitor levy contributions to be made by enterprises then a more structured changes
should be put in place to identify organizations that understate or avoid the levy and have penalties
applied to these organizations (see Annex 2C).
10.           The existing levy assessment procedures need to be reviewed to ensure that enterprises
are being accurately assessed and the collection of revenue is being maximized. One option would be
to remove the responsibility for collection from the individual employment offices and concentrate this
work at the Oblast Office.
Employment Service Delivery
11.           The location of raions was determined some time ago, based on circumstances different
from those likely to be encountered in the future. As conditions have changed in many districts, it is now
highly desirable that a review of the locations of existing offices be undertaken and that the requirements
for any additional offices over the next 3-5 years also be established.
12.           Staffing is allocated to EOs on the basis of fifteen staff per one hundred thousand of
population. There is minimal assessment of projected workloads nor are any specific local labor market
factors taken into account when staffing levels are being set. To ensure that staffing levels reflect actual
workloads and the labor market needs of particular locations, a simple staffing formula needs to be
developed to provide a more flexible method of setting and reviewing staffing levels for each office.
The Future
13.           The first priority is to ensure that the ES is able to effectively deliver its core functions
of registering jobseekers, receiving vacancies from employers, matching jobseekers with job vacancies
and the assessment and payment of UB. It is essential that these functions are carried out well if the ES
is to perform effectively.
14.           It is considered that refinements can be made and some functions substantially developed
to improve overall performance and service delivery. There are three key elements which should
underpin any changes proposed for the ES. These are:
*      Client Focus;
*      Self-help for clients; and
*      "Multi-skilling" of ES staff
15.           Client Focus means that the first priority for all staff in the office is to provide the best
possible service to their customers. The client's needs should always come first, whether they be a
jobseeker, an enterprise, or a person making a general inquiry. Clients visiting EOs have many different
needs and have differing abilities. Self-help is based on streaming and recognizes that some clients need
little additional help beyond providing them access to facilities and services which enable them to "short
cut" some of the conventional ES registration or job matching procedures. Properly introduced, this
approach enables significant savings in the numbers of staff required to handle growing unemployment
queues.



Page 9                                                                         ANNEX 2
16.          Multi skilling means equipping staff with additional skills which would enable them to
carry out the duties of a number of different functions in the employment office. The objective of multi-
skilling is to provide staff the capacity to respond to increasing workloads more quickly and at the same
time to ensure that the qualify of service to the client is not diminished by staff changes. It also provides
staff with a greater understanding of the overall activities of the office and encourages greater teamwork.
The multi-skilling of staff would be an important feature in streamlining the ES. In addition, a major
component of any changes being implemented would be the work done on staff training and development.
Unemployment Benefit
17.          Unemployment Benefit was introduced in July 1991 and has been administered by the ES.
At present, a Comrnission, meeting in the local Employment Office, grants the status of 'unemployed'
and determines the rate and duration of payment. Arrangements are then made to pay the clients
fortnightly by cheque. The payment for retrenched workers is calculated as a percentage of their average
wage over the previous 12 weeks. Other workers, voluntarily unemployed or with no work history in
the previous 12 months, including former students, are paid at the minimum wage level. There is a
period of three months' disqualification for those who left their job voluntarily or violated the labor laws.
Barriers
18.          There are a number of barriers which unemployed people face when seeking to apply for
assistance:
-     Potential clients are unaware of the ES and its activities, particularly the payment of
Unemployment Benefit;
-     The admission procedures are cumbersome and the Commission acts as a deterrent to
claiming;
-     The level of payment for Unemployment Benefit, particularly for those who would be
paid at the minimum wage, is near worthless when considering the cost of living;
3     There appears to be an element of embarrassment associated with registering as
unemployed and more particularly with receiving Unemployment Benefit;
*     There appears to be concerns about having the "work book" stamped as having been
given the status of unemployed; and
*     The employment offices do not provide an inviting atmosphere. This barrier could be
a combination of the physical surroundings, the office location and the attitude of staff.
Unemployment Benefit Policy
19.          A number of major policy changes have agreed upon with the Government and would be
implemented through the proposed project: They include:



ANNEX  2                                                                           Page 10
20.           First, the financial administration of the Employment Fund will be changed and its
financial viability enhanced. Low priority activities (including for any wage subsidies and job creation
through credit schemes) will be discontinued. The use of the Employment Fund for non-employment
activities will be discontinued and the expenditure for the Fund will be made in accordance with the
Republican Program of Employment and the current labor market situation; however, the Fund will be
used to finalize some expenditure, estimated at xx million tense related to immigration but this will be
completed by the end of June 1995. The revenue base for the Fund will be broadened; the standard rates
of contribution by employers will be extended to the agricultural and budgetary sectors by the end of
1995; and an employee-based contribution will be introduced over the same time. The levels of both
employer and employee contributions will be determined from time to time after a careful and continual
monitoring of the Fund, in the light of developments in the labor market, to ensure its continuing viability
as an independent Fund.
21.           Second, the systems for calculating UB will be restructured:
(a)    the basic level of UB will be increased to three times the minimum wage (as approved
by legislation) which is approximately the minimum level of compensation currently paid
to employees in the budgetary sector. It will be linked to this arnount and adjusted on
a quarterly basis. Over time, the system will be based increasingly on insurance
principles;
(b)    the structure for the payment of UB will be as follows:
(i)    school leavers will not be eligible for UB but will instead receive information
about their prospects and, as far as practicable, undertake further education or
training or be engaged on Temporary Employment Schemes (TES); participation
in either training or TES will then enable participants to build up a work history
and, consequently, eligibility for UB;
(ii)   students leaving post-secondary education and women returning to the labor
market after maternity leave will be eligible to receive the basic rate;
(iii)   unemployed workers in the agricultural or budgetary sectors will receive one or
two times the basic rate depending on their previous earnings or on other suitable
employment-related criteria. Guidelines will be prepared to define the criteria;
(iv)   other than the persons described in (ii) above, no benefits will be paid to people
who have not worked before, although such people will still be eligible to
participate in training or TES and, under separate eligibility, could still have
access to family allowances. Benefits will not be payable to people who separate
from ajob voluntarily (guidelines will be prepared for Employment Service staff
to determine eligibility);
(v)   retrenched workers will receive two or three times the basic rate depending on
their previous earnings or on other suitable employment-related criteria.
Guidelines will be prepared to define the criteria; and



Page 11                                                                          ANNEX 2
(vi)   unemployed workers engaged in training and TES will receive a slightly higher
amount than their UB entitlement.
(c)    unemployed people currently have eligibility for UB for only six months. If they have
been unable to find work within this time, they will be allowed to reapply for a further
six months UB provided they are willing to participate in TES when these are available.
Extension of benefits will only be granted in areas of particularly high unemployment.
Guidelines will be prepared to cover the conditions under which an extension may be
granted including covering the needs of people who are close to age-retirement and the
possible application of a means-test.
(d)    in view of the increases proposed in the level of UB, additional payments for dependents
would no longer be paid; however, recipients of UB may still apply for payments under
the separate family allowances provided they meet the income test provisions applying
in that scheme;
(e)    the pension rights of retrenched workers will be protected; and
(f)    the present obligation of employers for severance payments will be discontinued.
22.           Third, the administration of the ES will be improved. The process of registration and
application for UB will be streamlined by changing the functions of the existing Commnissions which
would act in special cases only. Instead, decisions on eligibility for UB would normally be made by the
ES staff themselves. A "work test" will be introduced to ensure that no one will receive UB if a suitable
work opportunity arises.
Claiming Unemployment Benefit
23.           At present, claiming UB is by invitation only. No application is completed but staff
submit cases to the Commission for consideration only if there is no possibility of the ES finding a job
for the client. If a client attends the office looking for work and there are no job available through the
ES and it is considered unlikely that jobs would become available in the short term, there is no reason
why the status of unemployed cannot be declared on the first day the client visits the office providing he
has ceasing working. The commencement of benefit would still be a separate decision but the client
should still be told about possible entitlement and the process to realize the entitlement.
Assessment and Approval of the Claim
24.           Under the present arrangements, a proposal is made by one of the employment officers
to the Commission seeking approval to grant the status of unemployed. This proposal contains all
relevant information to determine entitlement, commencement date and the duration of benefit. The
Commission is made up of a group of specialists from within each office. In some offices, this
Commission has up to seven members, although generally, the number is much less. In smaller offices,
a Commission of 4 or 5 would represent the whole staff. The Commission is used to ensure the
consistency of decisions but, as the number of cases increase, the time required to deal with cases would
become exorbitant.



ANNEX  2                                                                           Page 12
Training and Development of Staff
25.           The three tiers of management in the DOE have distinct  but complementary
responsibilities for staff training and development. The Republic Office is responsible for national
training policies and strategies; development of a national training plan; organization of specialist training
for management; and monitoring of training activity and standards. The Oblast office is responsible for
developing strategic training responses to identified needs in Raion offices and providing assistance to
Raion managers in determining of training needs and evaluation of training activity. The Raion office
is responsible for these activities within its office and for providing induction training for new staff.
26.           The need for increased focus on training and development has been a constant theme
during discussions with executive and operational management. The same message also came from the
directions paper produced from the Pavlodar regional managers conference in May 1994, from responses
tot he survey questionnaire developed by the consultants for completion by key managers at all levels
within the Department and from the seminars with operational staff conducted by consultants.
27.           There is recognition that greater attention to development and training will lead to
increased efficiencies, more flexibility to respond to changing workloads, increased job satisfaction and
an improved image with the general community.
Staff Training and Development
28.           A skilled, flexible workforce is an essential requirement for any organization, particularly
where delivery of decentralized services is involved. The move towards a market economy, increasing
volumes of job seekers and changing expectations from enterprises and jobseekers, will all present new
demands on the Department of Employment, especially at the operational level.
Competency Based Approach
29.           A first step in the implementation process is the introduction of a basic Competency Based
Approach (CBA) to staff training and development. The approach can be relatively simple, quick to
introduce, cost efficient, and effective. Furthermore, it provides the basic for enhancement as the ES
develops over the coming years. The competencies should become the basis for identifying training needs
by providing the benchmarks against which individual staff are assessed - the process involves appraisal
of an individual's competencies against their job(s) requirements. The competencies an individual lacks
becomes their training needs.
Training
30.           The identification of training needs starts with the establishment of standard job
competencies and the assessment of staff against those competencies. This approach is equally effective
for identifying the training needs of new as well as experienced staff and it can be applied at all levels
of staff in the Department of ES.
31.           The overall training plan needs to be developed through an improved consultative process
across Oblasts and Raions, coordinated by the Republic Office. It should include identification of the
training needs of the organization and the individual, and aim to achieve economical and effective use
of training resources. The plan need not be elaborate but should be prepared to complement the



Page 13                                                                          ANNEX 2
operational plan. Forrnal training courses should be short, sharp and relevant, and wherever possible
should be conducted on site or involve distance learning approaches to reduce expensive travel and other
associated costs.
32.          There are many training activities common to staff of ESs wherever they are located.
Model training programs for the major functions such as induction, effective oral and written
communication, interpersonal skills, employment skills, and customer service should be developed and
incorporate a rnixture of formal and on-job training components. Because of the dispersed nature of the
ES, particular attention should be paid to development of self-teach packages including computer tutorials,
individual programs, work-books etc.
33.          An additional factor, necessary to support the training and development strategies, is the
need to move towards the multi-skilling of staff at the operational level. The importance of this aspect
cannot be overlooked if the ES is able to effectively respond to the volume of clients likely to be
encountered in the future. Plans for multi-skilling of staff should be incorporated in the overall
Departmental training strategy and complemented with a review of organizational arrangements.
34.          The Model Office will play a vital role in this arena by acting as an induction point for
new staff, 'benchmarking" performance standards, promoting multi-skilling, reducing staff training costs,
introducing a client service culture and delivering relevant formal and "on the job" training to staff from
other offices.
C. Strengthening Management System
35.          The DOE is a relatively new organization and during the past three years has implemented
its own employment laws based largely on those of the former Soviet Union. This legislation established
some new functions including the provision of ESs and social protection for the unemployed. With
twenty one Oblasts in Kazakhstan, the management structure is highly decentralized and Oblasts exercise
considerable administrative delegations.
36.          The charter of the DOE is defined in broad terms and provides for a range of functions
to be performed. However, overseeing and directing a large number of geographically dispersed,
independent regions and employment offices presents many challenges and a clear statement outlining
priorities, goals and objectives for the ES for each year is necessary if the Service is to become
increasingly effective. It is vital that this statement reflects the Government's priorities and is clearly
understood at all levels within the Department.
Lrabor Market Analysis and Policy Development
37.          A component of this project is aimed at improving the analysis and understanding of the
functioning of the labor market and provides for strengthening in the areas of policy development and
implementation. A major requirement for the future would be the capacity to establish policies based on
comprehensive and accurate data and to meet this need particular attention should be paid to strengthening
the labor market collection and analysis functions within the Department.
38.          The labor market analysis section of the Department has limited resources and capacity
to provide information and analysis of labor market trends. However, this function is vital and needs to



ANNEX 2                                                                          Page 14
be strengthened in order to provide accurate analysis and long range forecasts to enable the Department
to develop appropriate policies and strategies in response to changes in the labor mnarket.
39.          This function would be considerably enhanced by strengthening the collection and analysis
methodologies at the Republic, Oblast and Raion level, particularly in relation to the qualitative aspects
of labor market intelligence. It is imperative that the Department strengthen its capacity to research and
evaluate economic and other issues impacting on the labor market and delivery of services to enable it
to formulate relevant policy and program responses.
Management of the Employment Service
40.          It is equally important to establish an infrastructure which would ensure that policy is
effectively translated into operational delivery. For this to be achieved, the ES must have firm
performance targets to be achieved in all operational areas. Performance monitoring mechanismns should
also be put in place to measure the effectiveness of program and service delivery. A further consideration
is the need for 'change management' training to ensure that managers and supervisors at all levels of the
DOE and ES understand the changes being implemented and give their full commitment to them.
Assistance is being proposed to establish a national training facility with technical assistance to develop
and run appropriate training courses.
41.          It is recommended that clear priorities and performance targets be set for the ES which
reflect the Government's key objectives for labor market management. Improved operational and
management information systems should also be introduced to provide for more effective collection and
analysis of local labor market information and performance monitoring.
D. Active Intervention Measures
Training, Retraining and Upgrading of Skills
42.          The training, retraining and upgrading of the occupational skills of the unemployed is the
responsibility of the Kazakhstan Republic Center of Vocational Training which is part of the Department
of Employment. The legislative framework is contained in the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of the
Kazakh SSR of June 19, 1991 (N383). The method of imnplementation of the Decree is contained in the
Resolution of June 19, 1991 (N383) of the Cabinet of Minister of the Kazakh SSR Establishing the
System of Training, Retraining and Upgrading the Unemployed and Jobseekers.
43.          The primary objectives of the retraining program are:
*     to assess the needs of the labor market and provide relevant training;
*     to provide unemployed individuals with theoretical and practical training;
*     to assess the quality of training provided to individuals.
44.          The Republic Center for Vocational Training is responsible for policy interpretation and
development; interpretation of the professional training law; reviewing and setting the scholarship rate
(participant's training allowance); licensing of training establishments and approving course curricular.
It also maintains communication with other Ministries (e.g. Education) about education and training and
training policies and works on improving the design of the psychological testing (vocational testing)



Page 15                                                                          ANNEX 2
provided in ES and Training Centers. It provides funding allocations for Oblast Training Centers and
handles the collection of relevant statistical data. The Center has a staff of 38 people.
45.           Each Oblast is responsible for organizing retraining assistance to the local unemployed
population. It analyses the local labor market situation and assesses the requirements for skills that are
in demand from industry. In conjunction with the local Training Center it provides relevant retraining
courses. The minimum eligibility criteria for a person to participate in training is to be registered as a
jobseeker with the ES. If, after 8 days of registration, the person has not obtained a job, they may be
eligible for training on a number of grounds including a lack of sufficient skills for the labor market, a
need to change their skills, or the loss of ability to perform their current occupation. It is usual for an
occupational aptitude test to be undertaken at this point. The acceptance of retraining is optional for the
unemployed person and people can request to participate in a training course at their own initiative
provided they meet the eligibility criteria.
46.           Under the proposed project, a review will take place of existing arrangements for
providing training to the unemployed and efforts made to accelerate the development of courses to meet
expected skills shortages and to make unemployed people more competitive in the labor market. This
work would include a review of the approval process, funding arrangements and far greater involvement
of the private sector in providing input to course design as well as running more training courses. Pilot
programs should be developed in the selected Oblasts with particular emphasis on assisting unemployed
women and young people.
Public Works Programs
47.           A Public Works program is conducted in Kazakhstan under the auspices of Decree of the
Cabinet of Ministers of "The Ways of Establishing Paid Public Works in Kazakhstan" which was adopted
on 22 October 1991 (N624). The program is also contained in the Employment Law. The primary
objectives of the program are to provide unemployed people with temporary employment activities; to
provide the disabled, people who are going to be retired, and youth, with job placements; to provide job
placements for individuals who have not worked for a long period of time (women caring for children,
people taking care of the aged or disabled, ex-prisoners). the Public Works program involves activities
of low skill levels which are usually of a basic manual laboring nature.
48.           The minimum eligibility criteria for a person to participate in Public Works is to be
registered at the ES, but priority is given to those with the status of unemployed. Placements to Public
Works are made on an individual basis and the maximum period of placement is 6 months. Participation
in this program is voluntary and to that extent is largely self targeting with the bulk of the work being
undertaken in rural areas.
49.           There is need for review of existing eligibility, approval and wage levels and. There is
also need for Temporary employment Schemes to be developed to assist people who had become
unemployed directly as a result of the divestiture of social assets by enterprises. Pilot programs should
be developed in the two Oblasts, South Kazakhstan and Pavlodar, which would be involved in the Social
Services component of the project.



ANNEX 2                                                                           Page 16
Model Office
50.          The setting up of Model Offices (MOs) is proposed as the most effective way to achieve
change in the shortest possible time while at the same time ensuring that high standards are set and
changes are implemented consistently throughout all offices.
51.          The concept of a Model Office is not new; many organizations faced with increasing
competition, new challenges, or changing community and client expectations have used the approach to
develop and test improved ways to deliver services to clients and spread new ideas and "best practice".
The establishment of a number of MO is recommended as the most effective method introducing change
and to demonstrate to staff the effectiveness of the changes.
The Principles of Model Offices
52.          The guiding principles for model offices are efficiency and effectiveness. Any proposed
changes should be tested against these principles. MOs, to be established with financing from the
proposed project would specifically focus on new and better approaches to:
*     manage increase number of jobseekers;
X     improve work practices;
*     improve assessment and payment of Unemployment Benefit procedures;
*     simplify and streamline operational procedures;
*     improve client outcomes - both jobseeker and industry;
3     improve client satisfaction;
*     train ES staff;
*     maximize use of available technology;
e     select office locations and improve layout, furniture and equipment.
They would also pay attention to improving management systems and ways of reducing operational costs.
53.          MOs would provide comfortable surroundings for the client and streamlined procedures
that would result in client needs being met quickly and efficiently. The first stage of the proposal is to
establish model offices in five locations. These model offices would trial new procedures and would have
trained staff with up to date equipment. They would provide convenient and comfortable surroundings
for clients and would also act as a training centers for staff for surrounding areas. The DOE is keen to
move quickly on the establishment of Model Offices and has already selected Almaty and Pavlodar as the
locations for the first two offices.
E. Strengthening the Employment Service
Institutional Strengthening
54.          This sub-component would aim at strengthening the organization's capacity at the national
and oblast level to provide strong leadership and effective management for the ES. Three elernents would
be involved.
55.          Management Improvement. It would be important that managers and supervisors at all
levels in the organization understand and support the changes being made and provide strong leadership



Page 17                                                                       ANNEX 2
during the implementation of the project. Change management workshops should be run to emphasize
their role in achieving the changes. Emphasis would also be place on sound financial management and
accountability for achieving work plans and operating within allocated budget.
56.          Labor Market Analysis. Analysis of labor market trends and access to up to date
management information on financial and operational statistics and business levels are also prerequisites
for sound decision-making and effective management and upgraded computer equipment is needed to
provide specialist staff at the republic level with enhanced capacity to undertake research on the labor
market and provide more detailed and timely management information.
57.          Policy Analysis. Technical Assistance and equipment should be provided to the MOL
to (a) develop the core policy making, program planning, budget formulation and financial control
system, including an audit capacity supported by a management information system; (b) develop a modest
research, evaluation and policy development capacity, as well as a program design and development
capacity in such areas as job placement, job development, testing and counselling, occupational analysis;
and (c) develop an employment service oversight and management capacity.
Unemployment Benefits and Service Delivery
58.          Unemployment Benefits. The current procedures relating to unemployment benefits are
cumbersome and complex and can prove to be barriers to unemployed people seeking to apply for
assistance. A detailed review of existing eligibility and approval criteria, including the level and duration
of payments, means testing and compliance arrangements should be undertaken. The role of approving
unemployment benefits should be delegated to individual staff with the Commission dealing only with
exceptional cases.
59.          Service Delivery. There is a need to review and streamline existing procedures for
dealing with jobseekers and employers and to prepare operational manuals and quick reference guides for
use by managers and supervisors when training new staff on the job. The results of this work need to
be closely linked with the implementation of model offices.  The establishment of model local
employment offices and the provision of support for their replication throughout the Employment Service
is recommended. The model would be developed with input from local employment services staff as well
as from senior staff in the ES and DOE. the setting up of model offices is proposed as the most effective
way to achieve changes in the shortest possible time while at the same time ensuring that high standards
are set and changes are implemented consistently throughout all offices. The first two model offices
would be established in Almaty and Pavlodar.
60.          Computerization. All Oblast offices and approximately 100 Raion offices have access
to computers and the DOE has a team of computer specialists located in Pavlodar. The ES is currently
using a locally developed software system, the Automated Information System for Job Placement (AIST)
to maintain basic information on jobseekers, enterprises and vacancy details. This software has recently
been upgraded to Version 4, however, the hardware limitations of the existing equipment prevent the
latest version from being used to its potential.
61.          A major upgrade of hardware and software is proposed to develop appropriate
enhancements to automate unemployment benefit calculations and payments as well as to accommodate
changes resulting from work on the standardization and streamlining of operational and procedural



ANNEX 2                                                                           Page 18
guidelines in local offices. this would permit automated registration, benefits calculation and delivery
and record keeping by employment offices. This work would also include a review and update of the
IT strategy, in the light of emerging technology, to determine the extent and timing of proposals to
introduce local area networks (LANS) and to develop a national network.
62.          Mass Layoffs. Attention also needs to be paid to areas of high unemployment. Although
the ES has TES, it is generally ineffective. The TES needs to be overhauled before it can provide any
reasonable assistance to areas such as Kentau (one of the pilot cities in the Social Service Component)
that are virtually one company towns, and which are to be significantly affected by mass layoffs. As
enterprises divest themselves of social assets and undergo restructuring and privatization, significant
retrenchments are likely to occur. Specific strategies and responses should be developed to assist local
staff in the ES to cope with these situations. This would include the establishment of tripartite
retrenchment response teams (RRT) which would provide assistance to enterprises faced with large
redundancies.
Staff Training Development
63.          Staff Training and Development. There would be a major requirement to strengthen the
capacity of the ES to provide training and development for staff and to introduce multi-skilling. There
would be a need to determine the basic competencies required by ES staff and to undertake a training
needs analysis. Specific training courses should be developed to meet these needs and "train the trainer"
programs delivered to selected training staff of Republic, Oblast and Model Offices. The transfer of these
skills would then allow local trainers to take on the responsibility for training other staff in the ES.
A.           A National Staff Training Center needs to be established within the DOE to provide
facilities for training staff in the republic office in specialist topics. It would also be used to provide
general management and development courses for staff from oblast and rayon offices in management and
supervisory positions in topics such as financial management and accountability, operational planning and
performance monitoring.
Pilot Programs for Training and Retraining of the Unemployed
64.          Retraining. Existing arrangements for providing training to the unemployed would be
reviewed under the project and steps taken to accelerate the development of courses to meet expected
skills shortages and to make unemployed people more competitive in the labor market. Pilot programs
would be developed to be undertaken in three oblasts - Almaty, South Kazakhstan and Pavlodar. While
limited equipment would be purchased under the project for training institutions run by the Vocational
Training Centers, the emphasis would be on developing the ability of the centers to encourage and build
up training capacity in the private sector (paras 3.26 to 3.29 of appraisal report).






KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 2A. LABOR MARKET TRENDS
A. Introduction
1.               The move to a market system is central to the reforms in Kazakhstan. This is as true in
labor markets as in other parts of the economy. This annex reviews the background to the labor market
in Kazakhstan and considers the growing problem of unemployment. Frictional unemployment is an
inevitable feature of a market economy, but increasing structural unemployment is a sign of more deep
seated problems of labor market adjustment. In Kazakhstan wage rigidity, segmentation and restrictions
on the mobility of workers are a major source of labor market imperfection. The conclusion is that the
overriding objective of policy in Kazakhstan must be to create conditions for the efficient operation of
labor markets. In the short-term some support for active labor market policies is required to assist the
growing numbers of longer term unemployed, return to work.
Population and Labor Force Participation
2.               Tables 1-1 and 1-2 in the following page summarize the most recent data on the
population and labor force in Kazakhstan.
3.               Population growth remained positive during the period 1989-1993, although tapered off
slightly after 1992. Total labor resources available to the economy continued to increase. The proportion
of the active population in employment fell slightly between 1989 and 1992, from 81% to 78.5%, but
recovered to 80.2% in 1993.
4.               An important indicator of recent social change is the proportion of persons above
retirement age, 60 years for men, 55 years for women, continuing to work. This trend is linked to the
decline in real value of pension benefits and declining capacity of the state to maintain the wide range
of welfare payments to which individuals and families are entitled.2 The fiscal strain of welfare
payments means that this trend is likely to continue in the short to medium term.
5.               The age and gender composition of the labor force for 1989 is given in table 1-2. The
age structure is indicative of a relatively young labor force. Twenty five per cent of the total population
and 37% of the employed population is between 15 and 30 years old. This pattern is widely observed
in the newly independent Republics of the FSU. The number of persons of pensionable age as a
proportion of the working-age population is currently around 35 percent, indicating a fairly high level
of 'old-age' dependency. Although as already mentioned however, a rising percentage of pensioners
continue to work after their official retirement age has passed.
2    Pensions are provided to workers reaching the age of eligibility, workers who have disabilities and children of deceased workers
Early retirement pensions are also provided to individuals in specific occupations such as teachers, doctors, mine workers, pilots,
performers and athletes. These pensions are intended to reward workers in difficult locations, dangerous occupation or those with
short career lives. Pension payments are covered by a Pension Fund based on payroll contributions from enterprises (37% tax in
1993) and a marginal contribution from employees (1% in 1993). Twenty percent of payroll contributions also go to the Social
Insurance Fund to cover short tenns insurance needs such as sick leave and maternity leave. Pension expenditures in Kazakhstmn
are estimated to be 7.2 percent of GDP in 1993, approximately three times higher than for countries with comparable per capita
incomes.



Page 20                                                                                             ANNEX 2A
Table 1-1: Population and Labor Force ('OOOs, period average)
1989            1990             1991              1992             1993
Total Population                  16,456           16,618           16,721           16,892           16,884
Males                              7,790            8,057            8,116             8,204              n/a
Females                            8,486            8,561            8,605            8,688               n/a
Urban                              9,394            9,523            9,634            9,713            9,580
Rural                              7,062            7,095            7,087            7,179            7,304
Active Population                  9,203            9,262            9,331            9,368            9,423
Employment                         7,467            7,563            7,494            7,356            7,561
Other active *                     1,736            1,699            1,833             1,978           1,824
Below working age and
working **                              4               5                4                 4                4
Above working age
and working **                       130              131              131               142              195
-nactive Population                7,253            7,356            7,390            7,524            7,461
Below working age                  5,556            5,573            5,559            5,568            5,565
Above working age                  1,818            1,870            1,936             1,999           2,063
Registered unemployed                 n/a             n/a                4                34               38
Unemployment rate                     n/a             n/a             0.05              0.46            0.50
*       Housewives, military, students, etc. ** Full time equivalent
Source: Goskomstat, World Bank CEM p13.
Table 1-2: Labor Force Participation by Gender and Age
Tabl 1-2: Labor Force Participapon by Gender and Age
0-15    16.19    20.24    25-29    30-34   35-39   40-44    45-49    50.55    55-59   64      5+
Faulcr:
Popuation                 2.742    548       666    771      683    573      356      394       436    316    357        648
Employed (00s)               2     176       499    665      617    532      332      357       325     87      50        28
Labor Forme Pa icipaion (%)  0.1    32.1     74.9    86.3    90.3   92.8    93.3    90.6        74.5   27.5   14           4.3
Mackt:
POPlati                   2,809    592       680    773      681    557      341      357       400    271    235        279
Eplyed (000s)                5     254       565    748      669    543      334      346       371    220      68        29
Labor Force Pardciption (%)  0.2    42.9     S3.1    96.8    98.2   98        97.9    96.9      92.8   81.5   28.9        10.4
6.               The data also show high rates of female labor force participation for all age groups above
20 years. These rates are characteristic of the FSU and most eastern European countries and are



ANNEX 2A                                                                               Page 21
significantly higher than levels of participation achieved in most western European economies. Table 1-3
gives some comparative data for Europe.
Table 1-3: Female Labor Force Participation
- Kazakhstan and Other Countries.
Women 40-44 years
of Age
Kazakhstan L            93 .30%
Bulgaria                93.30%
Hungary                 84.70%
Poland                 84.70%
Romania                 85.10%
Northern Europe        71.10%
Western Europe          55.60%
Southern Europe         37.10%
I Kazakhstan 1989 all other countries 1985
Source: Barr 1994 Table 7-3
7.            High rates of female labor force participation in Kazakhstan, as in most Eastem European
and FSU economies, are directly related to widespread access to education, at least in urban areas, and
a system of childcare and maternity leave that make raising a family compatible with participation in work
outside of the home. Longstanding state ideology also emphasized that women should take their place
alongside men in the productive labor force. Transitional policies now make the future of such high
levels of female labor force participation somewhat unclear.
B. Migration
8.            National emigration figures for 1993 were in the region of 270,000, comnposed mainly
of ethnic Russians, Germans and Ukrainians. Many of these emigrants are skilled workers, mostly from
industrial sectors, leading to concerns over skills shortages in the future. The impact of emigration varies
by region. Areas of high industrial concentration are worst affected, as are areas of recent industrial
decline. For example, South Kazakhstan, a region that has been badly affected by the exit from the Ruble
zone, observed net out-mnigration from the ooblast of 15.9% in 1993 and 9.8 % for the first half of 1994.
Concem is being expressed over the emigration of skilled industrial workers from the oblast.
9.            National immigration figures for 1992/3 showed approximately 190,000 persons entering
the country, composed mainly of ethnic Kazakhs returning from neighboring states, but also a fairly large
inflow of Russians and other nationalities. The net impact of migration on the composition of the
working age population and the skilled labor force is difficult to determine until more detailed
demographic data is available, but numbers were sufficiently large in 1993 to offset the natural increase
in population (Table 1-1). The skill characteristics of migrants entering the country is not known,
although anecdotal evidence suggests that fewer skilled persons are entering the country than are currently
leaving.
10.           Internal migration is not well documented, but observation suggest that the flow of rural-
urban migrants is gradually increasing, and is likely to increase more rapidly once government finally
removes residential restrictions on workers (propiska). Most voluntary migrants to urban areas are young



Page 22                                                                               ANNEX 2A
males, mainly Kazakhs, in search of work in the growing informal trade and services sector of the large
cities. Some reverse migration from urban to rural areas has also taken place, mainly people made
redundant in urban services and industries and forced to return to rural areas in the absence of other means
of support in the large cities.
C. Economic and Social Prorde of the Labor Market
11.           The structure of employment by sector shows strong parallels with other transitional
economies (Figure 1-1). Employment in Kazakhstan is dominated by material sectors - industry, agriculture
and construction, evidence of its importance as a mineral and raw material producing economy. Compared
with the more advanced market economies, employment in service sectors is modest, whilst the agricultural
sector is a much more important employer of labor. This reflects the historically limited development of
service and service-type industries and the labor intensive production processes associated with agriculture.
In Kazakhstan, agriculture provides an important source of permanent and seasonal employment in almost
all regions.
Figure 1-1: Sectoral Shares of Employment: Various Countries 1988-1990
100
1 90
~ 80
j70
60
*S  50
U40
30
20
A.10
0
Kazakhstan  Hungary  Poland  Fed. Rep.  Netherlands  USA 1990  Japa  2990
1990     1989      1989       of       1990
1999
U  Agriculture Ci Industry   O Connlruction * Servkcesn
12.           Employment by sector has also a regional and ethnic dimension to it. The two largest
ethnic population groups are the Kazakhs and Russians. Kazakhs represent approximately 44% of the
population and Russians account for about 34%. The remaining 22% of the population consists of
Ukrainians, Germans, Tatars, Uzbeks and other less numerous nationalities. The south of Kazakhstan,
with its relatively large rural population, has the largest number of ethnic Kazakhs. Most are occupied in
agricultural and livestock activities. The more industrial towns in the region tend to have a higher
proportion of ethnic Russians and Germans than the rural areas. In the more industrialized and urbanized
north and east of the country, Russians are the most numerous population group, and are mainly emnployed
in industrial and construction sectors (less than 22% of industrial jobs are occupied by ethnic Kazakhs).
13.           While the evidence is still weak, regional and ethnic factors indicate that the national labor
market is not unified but is segmented, leaving some regions in a more or less permanent state of



ANNEX 2A                                                                                       Page 23
disequilibrium. For example, South Kazakhstan has a long tradition of excess supply of labor, although
within the region certain industrial towns experience more or less permanent labor shortage. State
controls on labor mobility and a history of narrow skill definition3 have exacerbated market
segmentation, probably increasing the vulnerability of some regions and population groups to
unemployment.
14.            Recent government reforms to improve the micro-functioning of labor markets in
Kazakhstan, including removal of the propiska system, removal of wage coefficients and privatization of
the housing stock, should have a positive effect on labor mobility and market clearing. A shift towards
demand driven vocational training would also help to increase the relevance and transferability of workers
skills. Nonetheless, constraints to improved market operation still exist in the form of excess demand
for housing and the high cost of relocating workers, and institutional barriers to job mobility, particularly
for women workers. The large number of workers on unpaid and forced leave, retaining their entitlement
to enterprise facilities, including schools, clinics and sanitoria, adds a further disincentive to worker
mobility.
15.            Evidence of other forms of labor market segmentation, particularly occupational
segmentation, is difficult to confirm without more detailed empirical research. However, qualitative
evidence does point to some occupational segregation by gender. Women employees are heavily
concentrated in the social sectors, in light industry, and in sub-sectors of agriculture. All are relatively
low paying and often, with the exception of education and health sectors, low-skill occupations. This is
despite the good educational achievement of most women workers in Kazakhstan. Qualitatively, the
mismatch between education and jobs appears higher for women than men in all sectors, although
quantitative research on the intensity of gender segregation in Kazakhstan is still needed.
16.            Empirical studies from two societies with strong parallels in Kazakhstan -Russia and
Uzbekistan - provide some clues to the pattern of gender segregation in Kazakhstan. Econometric
analysis of occupational wage data from Russia shows that, controlling for education and age, for the
sarne occupation women are paid less than men. Tests for discrimination reveal fairly widespread wage
discrimination by gender. In Uzbekistan, cultural norms about appropriate work for women and men are
more deeply entrenched than in Russia, especially in rural areas.  Women workers are heavily
concentrated in low-skill and unskilled occupations with low pay and very few opportunities for job
mobility.
17.            One explanation given for lower average female earnings throughout the FSU is the
disincentive effects on employers created by generous maternity and child care leave. Mothers are
entitled, in addition to an allowance of 126 days at full pay after 30 weeks of pregnancy, up to two years
unpaid leave with job security. Pregnant workers are also entitled to sick leave on full pay. This package
is generous by international standards. Extended leave means that women are treated differently in the
workplace. They are perceived by employers as non-permnanent or semi-permanent workers, more costly
than hiring men and less of a worthwhile investment than men. Consequently women are paid less, on
Vocational and technical training tends to produce highly specialized workers with only limited transferable skills. For example.
workers are trained as crane drivers, or truck drivers, or tractor drivers. Welders are trained in a highly specific set of welding
techniques to fit a particular job description. This is one way of enterprises raping the full benefits of trained workers.
essentially mnaking them less likely to transfer their skills elsewhere. In the context of labor market adjustment it creates a serious
problem of worker immobility.



Paze 24                                                                                        ANNEX 2A
average, than men. The effect of lower wages is to reduce the opportunity cost of time spent by women
in domestic work, thus reinforcing the domestic division of labor and women's double burden.
D. Transition and Labor Market Adjustment
18.             Employment data from the beginning of the reform period show a fairly high degree of
responsiveness of employment levels to changing market conditions, although overall, employment
reduction still lags well behind output contraction.
19.             Employment decline varies sharply by sector. Industrial employment started declining
in 1988, falling by 4% in 1990 and a further 9% by the first quarter of 1992. The largest absolute
decline since 1990 occurred in the non-material sectors, shedding almost a half a million workers,
followed by construction (200,000 workers). Agricultural employment, on the other hand, grew by about
4% over 1991-2 and continued to grow in 1993. Contrary to the early trend, government employment
grew in 1993, by 7%  in the first 5 months, after a 13%  contraction in 1992. Tables 1-4 to 1-6 give the
most recent picture of worker retrenchments by sector.
Table 1.4: Total Retrenched Workers by Sector
and type of Worker: Jan-Dec 1
Total  Men  Women Youth (1) Manual(2)
Industry                         11112    4315   6797    2949        7501
Construction                      5224    2608   2616    1261        2873
Agriculture                       4279    2012   2267    1085        2281
Transport                         6184    3339   2845    1680        4055
Retail/catering                   6495    1662   4833    2088        3876
HousinglUtilities/Services        1761    440   1321       560       1161
Health/Education                  3187    668   2519       964       1195
Other                             8465    3035   5430    2064        3705
All sectors                      46707   18079  28628   12651       26647
State                            40959   ....   . .  ....           ..... ....    . ... .
Non-state                         5748
' 16-29 Years    2 Blue Collar Workers
Youth/Manual Categories not mutually exclusive
Table 1-5: Total Retrenched Workers by Sector and Type of
Workers by Sector and Type of Worker: Jan-June 1994
Total  Men Women Youth0) ManuaP)
Industry               12047  6030   6377   3057    8080
Construction            5906  3385   2521   1597    3658
Agriculture             5583  2805   2778   1602    2855
Transport               5958  3224   2734   1735    4241
Retail/catering         4196  1077   3119   1155    2262
Housing/Utilities/Services  843   280    563    266   552
Health/Education        2191   462   1729    710      830
Other                   9227  3395   5832   2186    3434
All sectors            45951 20298  25653  12308   25912
State                  38974
Non-state               6977
') 16-29 Years  (2) Blue Collar Workers
Youth/Manual Categories not mutually exclusive



ANNEX 2A                                                                                Page 25
Table 1-6: Average Monthly Retrenchments by Sector
and Type of Worker 1993-1994
Total   Women   Men
1993 1994 1993 1994 1993 1994
Industry            926 2008 566 1063 360 1005
Construction        435 984 218 420 217 564
Agriculture         357 930 189 463 167 467
Transport           515 993 237 456 278 537
Retail/Catering     541 699 403 420 138 179
Housing/Utilities/Services 293 140 110  94  37  47
Health/Education    266 365 210 288  56  77
Other               705 1538 452 972 253 566
All sectors         3892 7658 2386 4275 15073383
20.           Total retrenchments for 1993 were 46,707, 88% of which were in the state sector. By
June of 1994, the number of retrenchments had already reached the total 1993 figure, with over 84%
taking place in the state sector. The total for 1994 is likely to be a significant increase on previous years.
Average monthly lay-offs in industry, construction, transport and agriculture show the largest increase
over the year. Lay-offs in social sectors and other service sectors stabilized with a slight reduction in
average monthly layoffs in housing, public utilities and consumer service. The sharp rise in monthly
retrenchments in material sectors is indicative of the gathering pace of enterprise restructuring in 1994/5.
21.           In line with the early reform years, the number of women laid-off in industry and in
social and service sectors exceeds the number of men. A high percentage of these are manual jobs. The
three fold increase in the number of male workers laid off in industry, agriculture and transport is an
indication of a new and important trend of increasing male unemployment which will continue as
restructuring in industry gathers pace.
22.           The level of open unemployment has risen sharply in 1994. National figures released by
the Department of Employment for November 1994, show 78,500 persons registered as unemployed,
compared to 38,000 for the whole of 1993. By the end of 1994 the average unemployment rate for the
Republic was approximately 1.2%.
23.           Employment Offices receive on average   7,000 new  registrations per month,
total although workers finding jobs and those becoming ineligible for assistance make the monthly net
increase substantially less than this, in the region of 3,000 to 3,500 or approximately 4 percent per
month. Between 40 and 50 percent of registered job seekers are eligible for unemployment benefit.
While the flow into unemployment is low relative to OECD countries, the flow out of unemployment has
also been low. Once workers become unemployed they have great difficulty finding a job. The monthly
exit rate of unemployed workers into work is low, probably in the region of 3 to 5%. Well below
comparable rates in the USA in 1992 of nearly 25%. Thus there is a danger that unemployment will
become like a stagnant pool of labor, with limited turnover into the labor market. Figures on the number
of long term unemployed workers reveal that was in the beginning primarily frictional unemployment is
now progressing into a deeper seated problem of structural unemployment (Table 1-7).



Page 26                                                                                 ANNEX 2A
Table 1-7: Kazakhstan Unemployment Data
Distribution of Long Term Registered Unemployed - By Region
1st April              1st July           1st October
Total   > 6    %> 6    > 6    %> 6   Total  > 6    %> 6
months   months  months  months         months  months
kmola      1600   170       10.6    250       13.1   2100  300      14.3
Aktobe       2000   330      16.5    350       16.7   2300  340      14.8
Almaty       2600   420      16.2    530       25.2   2600  420      16.1
Atyrau       6300   2700      43      3350    53.1   6400  3600    56.2
E. Kazakhstan 3200   420     12.7    450       15.5   3500  320       9.1
hambyl      1700   350      20.6     180      10.6   1800  420      23.3
Zhezkazgan    700    20       2.9      30      3.7    700   60        8.6
W. Kazakhstan 2700   790     29.3     920      30.7   3600  660      18.3
Karagandu    500    30        6       150      25      900   170     18.9
Kzyl Orda    1400    30       2.1      0              2700  110       4.1
Kokshetau    1600   400       25      330      22    1500  230       15.3
ostanai     1800   150      8.3      330      15.7   2400  450      18.7
angistau   1100   700       63.6    760      63.3   1300  670      51.5
Pavlodar     2600   480      18.5    810       27.9   3400  1030    30.3
N. Kazakhstan 2200   190      8.3     270       9     3700  520       14
Semipalantisk  6500   3300   50.8    3600    48.6   8700  4130    47.5
Taldykorgan   1600   140      8.8     140      7.8   2400  170        7.1
Torgai       300    30        10       60       10    1000   90       9
S. Kazakhstan 7500   2300    30.7    2900      35.8   8700  3270    37.6
Almaty City   200    20       10       20      10    300   33         11
Leninsk Town  30                       0               15
Kazakhstan   48130  12970    26.6    15430     30    60015 16993    28.3
24.            Sixty seven percent of the registered unemployed in 1993 were women, by the second
quarter of 1994 this had fallen to 58% mainly because of increasing registrations by male workers
affected by retrenchment. In terms of the educational level of unemployed persons, the majority have
general secondary education and above. On average 8% of unemployed women and men have higher
education qualifications. A slightly larger percentage of women have specialized secondary or technical
education - 31% compared to 23% amongst men - and fewer women have incomplete secondary
education than do men. On average, unemployed women have a slightly higher level of educational
attainment than do unemployed men, and unemployed youth have a lightly lower level of educational
attainment than older unemployed workers. Even though open unemployment rates among women are
high, it is likely that they would have been even higher if many had not left the labor force completely.
25.            The regional distribution of open and long term unemployment for early 1994 reveals
some sharp contrasts between the north, center and south (Map 2646 and Table 1-7). The highest rates
of open unemployment - between 2.1 % and 4.0% of the economically active population - are currently
in the far west, specifically Atyrau ooblast. Rates between 1.1% and 2.0% were found in South
Kazakhstan, and in the eastern ooblast of Semei (Semipalatinsk) Lowest average rates of unemployment
were recorded in central and northem regions and in Almaty and Leninsk City. Northern regions are
home to many of the largest industrial enterprises in Kazakhstan, mainly involved in mining and
processing of ferrous and non-ferrous metals and machinery and equipment manufacture. Restructuring
in many of these enterprises has been slow, although large numbers of workers in these enterprises are
currently on part-time or unpaid forced vacation, which is hidden from official unemployment data, and



ANNEX 2A                                                                             Page 27
the most recent data indicate that retrenchments are now on the increase. Recent government measures
in the area of credit and bankruptcy law are also expected to increase the pace of restructuring in 1995.
26.           Long-term unemployed has increased virtually everywhere, but as a proportion of those
out of work in each region the problem is greatest in western and northern Kazakhstan. The reasons for
growing long term unemployment are various. First is the fact that workers often find new jobs while
still employed. Employers often prefer job-top-job transitions because they have better information on
an already employed person than an unemployed person. Second, workers who remain unemployed for
sometime become discouraged and give up looking for work. Third, imbalances in the distribution of
unemployed and job vacancies. This geographic mismatch is aggravated by poor mobility and a weak
housing market.
27.           Figures 1-2 to 1-4 summarize the latest data on rettenchuments by region and sector and
show northern and eastern regions taking the brunt of adjustment in industry and in agriculture. The fact
that this is not fully reflected in open unemployment figures for the two regions reinforces the view that
retrenched workers are still not registering for unemployment benefit, even when they may be entitled.!
In almost all regions retrenchments of women exceed those of men. In Kustanay, where the gap is
greatest, it is retrenchments of women agricultural workers that is largely responsible.  In East
Kazakhstan and Semipalantinsk, women are being retrenched from industry. The region of heaviest male
retrenchments is Akmola, an area dominated by heavy and mining industries.
4The Departnent of Employment estimates that of a total of 80,000 retrenched workers only 12% have registered with the ES.



Page 28                                                                                     ANNEX 2A
nig 1>TebIRanchmnw9bURaagOM9daC Jaa.juwI4
a. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~wa
fg1 4 R4:etrncem   hI Agdtur By Region and    Gend e rJan -Jne 1B9
jam
400
300
200
400
0
Fig 1-4: Retrenchements In Agriculture By Region and Gender~ Jan-June 1994
600
t.0
400lsLllElkae   llh
2    t,    tff ii    $^    t3                             Fi ;1 
30                                                                                         Ii        ZlXt4aZt:



ANNEX 2A                                                                             Page 29
28.           Officially registered unemployment is nonetheless just the tip of the unemployment
problem in Kazakhstan. As already mentioned, large numbers of workers throughout the country are
presently engaged on part time or on extended unpaid leave. Accurate national estimates are hard to find
but the current estimnate is that over 500,000 workers are actually unemployed or close to 7% of the labor
force5. As an illustration of the magnitude of the problem Table 1-8 summarizes the recent estimates for
the two ooblast participating in the Social Services Component of the Social Protection Project.
Table 1-8. Hidden Unemployment in Two Oblasts
South Kazakhstan Oblast      Pavlodar Oblast
October 1, 1994         September 1, 1994
Number of totally shut down enterprises              1 1                      55
871
Number of employees                                3,907
Number of partially shut down                       18                        46
enterprises
Number of employees                               29,367                    74,672
Number of enterprises on part-time
regime                                               6                        14
Number of employees                                1,197                    7,568
Number of employees on forced leave               18,847                    6,296
Of these on unpaid leave                           8,805                     n.a.
Number of employees on part time work              4,998                    4,640
Source: Pavlodar and South Kazakcastan Employment
29.           Hidden unemployment in Kazakhstan, as in the rest of the FSU, has a long history. In
the old employment system it was associated with a regime of excess demand for labor, manifest in the
mismatching of jobs and skills, low productivity and 'capricious' labor turnover (Barr 1994). In the
transition period the problem is associated with 'labor hoarding' by enterprise managers adopting a 'wait
and see' strategy in relation to macroeconomic change. Expectations that transitional policies will mean
a return to pre-existing levels of employment have not been radically revised, despite evidence of falling
aggregate demand. More generally, uncertainty over expected improvements in economic relations with
Russia and other FSU countries has made enterprises reluctant to shed trained and trusted workers. Labor
5   ILO estimates put this much higher, at close to one million workers out of work, but their estimate includes raembers of the labor
forcc who would not otherwise be in paid work.



Page 30                                                                                       ANNEX 2A
retention has also been made possible by real wage cuts6 and relatively easy access to government
credits. This is anticipated to change in 1995. Employers have also been deterred from severing contracts
because of obligations to pay 3 months severance pay on termination. Proposed enterprise liquidations
for 1995 and slight improvements in real wages as inflationary expectations are modified indicates that
labor hoarding will be less feasible for enterprises in the short and medium term.
E. Short and Medium Term Labor Market Issues
30.             The data presented in this annex have, by vecessity, been largely descriptive because of
an absence of more detailed and analytical material on the labor market in Kazakhstan. Nonetheless from
these data a number of important trends in the labor market have been identified for the short and
medium terms.
(a)     The first and most obvious short term trend is the increase in open unemployment, partly
due to new redundancies and partly to workers in hidden unemployment switching into
open unemployment. This can be expected to increase once unemployment benefit levels
are adjusted to reflect average earnings in the labor market. Industrial layoffs are also
expected to be compounded by the growing number of unemployed school leavers and
discharged military personnel;
(b)     The length of the unemployment period is also rising and is expected to continue to
increase. This is due to the relatively low rate of turnover amongst the unemployed
themselves and to geographical mismatching between areas of unemployment and new
vacancies;
(c)     Female labor force participation is expected to decline, a reflection of the artificially high
labor force participation rate of the Soviet period. This has implications for household
income, dependency ratios and the current structure of state-funded family allowances and
child support;.
(d)     Male unemployment as a share of overall unemployment will increase because of
restructuring in industrial sectors. The magnitude of unemployment depend greatly on
how rapidly the private sector can respond to new incentives and improvements to labor
market mobility. Proposed changes in the propiska system will undoubtedly be a catalyst
to more open and regular rural-urban migration within Kazakhstan, especially amongst
the youth and rural areas hardest hit by recent employment contraction. However, with
continuing contraction un urban industrial employment, and with slow growth in the
establishment of large private sector businesses, a significant proportion of these migrants
are likely to find work in the informal, private trade and services sectors.  The
employment and income potential of these sectors will depend greatly on the pace of
change in local capital markets and the regulatory business environment;
In 1992 real annual wages averaged about 30% below their 1991 level. By 1993, wage setting mechanisms had begun to adjust
to high inflation although, due to the lagged and step-wise adjustment of nominal wages to inflation, average annual real wages
declined by a further 7% in 1993. The dramatic decline in the minimum wage during 1992, when it was reduced to about 20%
of its end-of 1991 level in real terms and to 10% of the average wage in real terms in 1994, means that the minimulm wage has
become largely irrelevant to wage setting outside of the government sector (Fig 1-5).



ANNEX 2A                                                                                  Page 31
31.            Short and medium term labor demand is related to imnproved market responsiveness in the
former SOE sector, the growth of the commercial services sector and the development of institutions
capable of supporting flexible, small scale enterprise. Labor market effectiveness is closely linked to
changes in the market for housing, in the system of land allocation and in the functioning of insurance and
capital markets.
32.            The medium and long-term policy objective in Kazakhstan must be to create the necessary
conditions for efficient labor market functioning. In the transition period, a combination of active and
reactive labor market measures are necessary to provide some degree of protection to households in the
face of major income shocks and to assist unemployed workers return to work. Some of these issues are
pursued in Annex 2b.
F4 1-S: Di Mi_    ad Avere Wag Jum-Spt 1994 (acta Oct-Dc 199 (predicde
60 -
N   0  Predicte
so -
1   iV'   s_-       ~- -- -- -- ---------____.
40e     .                                                                  M2W
30                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~Min Real Wage
r------ Ave Real Wag
20
10
a                  s                       I5  a   I 
Sof: Be 






KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 2B. GENDER TARGETED TRAINING
A. Background
1.           The Kazakhstan Government has a commitment to providing vocational  training,
retraining and upgrading to the unemployed. In 1991 the Government established a Republic Center for
Vocational and Professional Training under the Ministry of Labor, with a central office in Almaty and
regional offices in each of the 19 Oblasts. The training centers (TCs) provide information, screening
facilities and training assistance to registered unemployed persons considered eligible for the scheme.
Training courses are mainly sub-contracted from public education institutes in the immediate locality,
including vocational schools, technical colleges and higher education institutes. A limited number of
training centers offer courses directly, ranging from arts and crafts to auto-mechanics. The capacity to
offer courses directly depends on the material location and conditions of each of the centers, which varies
widely. Trainees are provided with allowances to participate in training courses which are based on past
salary levels and work experience. Trainees without work experience are paid at the level of the
minimum wage or unemployment benefit, which ever is greater, plus a IOOT transport allowance.
2.           The present system of vocational training for the unemployed has some strengths and a
number of weaknesses. On the positive side, training for the unemployed is being handled outside the
Employment Offices. EOs direct potential trainees to the Centers, but are not involved in either assessing
or placing trainees in courses. On the negative side, Directors of the TCs report both to the Chief of the
Oblast EO and the Director of the Republic Training Center, which create tension over the way in which
the Centers should run. Again on the positive side, the majority of courses offered by the centers are
sub-contracted. On the negative side the Centers sub-contract only to the state education system which
is probably the slowest of all state institutions to respond to changes in the economic environment.
Courses are often out of date, narrowly defined and out of touch with the demand side of the labor
market. Courses offered to women, for example, tend to reflect stereotypes of the work women are being
expected to do rather than any understanding of what the market is actually demanding. Some state
training institutions are beginning to offer business management, and computer training courses, although
trainers are ill-equipped to provide state of the art curricula in these areas.
3.           At least two fairly sizable private sector training institutions are operating in Kazakhstan,
both based in Almaty. These are the Kazakhstan Institute of Management Economics (KIME), established
in 1992, and the Kazakh-American International Business Institute (KAIBI), established in 1991. KIME
offers two year degree courses in business administration and economics. KAIBI offers short term
courses in market economics, business and management. As of November 1994, a further 19
organizations claimed to provide management training in Kazakhstan, although a USAID report on their
activities indicated that most were offering only limited seminar-courses on management issues. There
is nevertheless a general lack of credible training institutions in Kazakhstan. The absence of training
explicitly for self-employment and small-enterprise is also a problem in Kazakhstan, especially where a
dynamic and growing small business sector will be crucial not only because of the need to generate
productive employment opportunities, but because of the critical role of these firms in building a new,
decentralized market economy.



PaRe 33                                                                        ANNEX 2B
4.           The record on vocational training in the FSU is generally considered to be weak, and
unresponsive to market forces. This is not something exclusive to FLU however, vocational training
generally has a mixed record of success also in OECD economies. However, there are many factors to
be taken into consideration in interpreting this finding. Firstly, numerous evaluations from OECD
countries show that it is not vocational training per se that is at fault but the institutional arrangements
under which training is provided, which are not always the most appropriate for responding to rrkrket
demand. Second, training for the unemployed is always more risky than training in-house or upgrading
existing employees. Thirdly, training or skilling for self-employment, which is an important branch of
vocational training in any economy, is associated with a high attrition or failure rate because of other
factors affecting the viability of businesses - access to finance, markets and infrastructure.  This
underlines the need to think carefully about training for self-employment and identifying viable demand-
side opportunities for small business.
5.           Despite the mixed record of vocational training, the Govermnent of Kazakhstan and the
Bank remain supportive of training as an active response to the process of labor market adjustment, in
the belief that to abandon well targeted, selective training would probably be very costly in both human
and economic terms in the long run. For the unemployed population, a large percentage of whom are
women, although the immediate monetary returns to training are difficult to demonstrate, the longer term
benefits of flexible and carefully selected training in terms of job search capability, adaptability,
confidence and awareness of the business environment are potentially quite large.
B. The Training Sub-Component
6.           The training sub-component of the proposed project would have two main components:
(a)    To strengthen existing institutional capacity for training for the unemployed by improving
the intermediary role of regional training centers (TCs).
(b)    To support development of a Business Start-Up Training Program.
7.           The intermediary role of regional TCs would involve: (a) identifying training and
retraining courses; (b) negotiating contracts with training providers; (c) providing training assessments
for training applicants; and (c) screening applicants for technical courses. TCs would be discouraged
from offering courses of their own,' instead they would focus on their intermediary functions. However,
this intermediary role needs to be diversified and made more responsive to offer all prospective trainees
a wider choice and better quality of training courses in areas with sound employment prospects. Many
of these areas are related to the small scale business or self employment sectors of the economy, poorly
covered by most public training courses. The TCs would therefore be encouraging private sector training
institutions and NGOs with an interest in self-employment or micro-enterprise development to bid
alongside public training providers for training contracts. Given the domninant role of the TCs they
should be encouraged to 'shop around' for suitable training courses, improve quality control and monitor
the effectiveness of training outcomes in terms of labor market success. Trainees would also be
encouraged to participate in financing their own training, at least to a nominal amount, so as to confirm
their commitment to the program.
7     OECD 1991.



ANNEX 2B                                                                          Page 34
8.           The TCs already have the beginnings of a data base that is of value to employers and
trainees alike, but with budget cuts, TCs are severely restricted in developing this aspect of their work.
Information for employers on trainees suitable for in-house training programs, for trainees on where to
look and shop around for training in non-traditional skill areas, and guidance from trained counsellors
on where to look for commercial training providers or business schemes is crucial for matching trainees
with jobs in the changing Kazakhstan economy. This kind of information exchange helps to improve self-
selection capabilities on the part of trainees and reduces the likelihood of waste in state-funded training.
Employers also have a clearing house for information on the kinds of trained persons they might wish
to employ in the future. Information, guidance and publicity services of TCs should be widely available
to all persons interested in some form of training.
9.           Under the proposed pilot project, funds would be provided for technical assistance to
strengthen the intermediary role of two oblast training centers and in Almaty. Technical assistance would
also be provided for the design of pre-entry screening and orientation courses for unemployed persons
wishing to become self-employed or establish a small business.
10.          The Business Start-Up Program would involve training in business plan development for
self-employment and micro-enterprise development. Unemployed persons above 21 years would be
eligible for the program, but specific measures would be used to encourage participation by unemployed
women. This would include promotional campaigns, targeted counseling and advice for women
completing applications to the program and reserved places for women on the program. A two-day
orientation course would be an essential prerequisite for joining the program during which time
prospective trainees are expected to finance their own costs.
i1.          Training under the program would be sub-contracted to NGOs, independent trainers or
local business centers who would agree to provide course modules of 4 - 6 weeks to fit into an overall
package of training lasting 3 - 4 months in total. Training would be oriented towards particular sectors
based on an assessment of local business opportunities. Trainees would be put in touch with existing
businesses and encouraged to join or formn associations to share information and expertise.
12.          Managers on the Start-Up program will be encouraged to make contact with institutions,
local or international, providing alternative sources of finance for micro-entrepreneurs.  In an
environment such as Kazakhstan where capital markets are thin and imperfect, micro-enterprises are
severely short of working capital. Programs such as Trickle-Up, Women's World Banking, WomanKind
and others have an explicit interest in financing micro-entrepreneurs and would be credible collaborating
institutions in such a program.
C. Specific Proposals for Funding
13.          Funding would be provided to support the following activities:
(a)    Technical assistance - six months to review and revise the existing procedures for training
assessment and screening in line with new methods and expected demands in the labor
market. Strengthen counselling and advisory services for the unemployed seeking
training. Advise on the preparation and implementation of a Training Needs Assessment
in each oblast, in collaboration with local research team;



Page 35                                                                                       ANNEX 2B
(b)     Technical assistance8 - six months to advise on the design and development of the
Business Start-Up Program. Preparation of general orientation programs and training of
trainers;
(c)     Supply of basic office equipment and refurbishment of classroom facilities at the TCs to
run orientation courses for the Start-Up program, plus development/translation of basic
library materials on training for trainers and business development; and
(d)     Oblast level workshops would be financed to encourage learning and information
exchange about training for self-employment and micro-enterprise. Collaboration with
other training partners would be sought.
Including EDI and/or International NGOs with a reputation in this area are being explored. Grant assistance for the provision of
training is also being explored.



KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 2C. IMPACTS OF EXPENDITURE AND REVENUE PATTERNS
ON THE EMPLOYMENT FUND
1.           The attached table and chart illustrate the impacts of different unemployment scenarios
on the Employment Fund (EF) by the end of 1996. At the end of 1994, the proportion of the labor force
receiving Unemployment Benefits (UB) was about 1.8% or 100,000 people. All scenarios assume that:
(a) the growth in the number of unemployment beneficiaries would be constrained by the application of
strict rules governing eligibility for receipt of benefits after 6 months unemployment; and (b) the
probability of a person remaining unemployed for 6 months would be about 25% and that half of these
unemployed would be denied further UB beyond the six-month period. The model, therefore, assumes
a reasonable turnover among the unemployed, due partly to them finding work and partly to them
withdrawing their applications for benefits.
2.           Scenarios 1-3 - high-case unemployment with growth of 6% a month; by the end of
1996, the number of people receiving UB would increase to about 440,000. Scenario 1 shows what
would happen to the EF if reasonable revenues were maintained through the employer levy of 2%
(although at best one could expect only 50% of employers to pay the levy) and the 1% employee
contribution (again with only 50% of employees actually paying). By December 1996, revenues and
expenditures of the EF would sustain monthly surpluses though they would be declining; the Fund would
still have a healthy accumulation of over 3 billion tenge. Scenario 2 illustrates what would happen if less
revenue were collected due to refusal by the authorities to implement the 1 % employee contribution
(contributions fall from 50% to 0%), and Scenario 3 illustrates declining revenues due to failure by
employers to collect the 2% levy (contributions also fall from 50% to 33%, as collection methods fail
and avoidance rises). Declining collections may well happen as employees switch from larger enterprises
to smaller businesses or the informal sector.
3.           Scenarios 4-6 - medium-case unemployment with growth of 4% a month; by the end
of 1996, the number of people receiving UB would increase to about 280,000. Scenarios 5 and 6
employ the same alternative revenue shortfall assumptions as Scenarios 2 and 3.
4.           Scenarios 7-9 - low-case unemployment with growth of 2% a month; by the end of
1996, the number of beneficiaries would increase to about 175,000. Scenarios 8 and 9 employ the samne
alternative revenue shortfall assumptions as Scenarios 2 and 3.
5.           These three sets of scenarios show that by the end of 1996, each percentage point increase
in the proportion of the labor force receiving UB would reduce accumulated EF funds by 400-500 million
tenge. Equally noticeable is the impact that declining revenues will have on the assets of the Fund itself.
The absence of the 1 % employee contribution (Scenarios 2, 5 and 8) would cost the Fund 2 billion tenge
by the end of 1996; while a decline in employers' contributions from 50% to 33% (Scenarios 3, 6 and
9) would cost the Fund almost the same amount.
6.           Opinion in Kazakhstan is divided about the prospects for growth of unemployment. Many
people believe that it will be no greater than 2% a month. In the absence of reform, this could well be
the case, but assuming that the reforms take hold, even the 6% scenario may be too low. The low



~~Fage 37                                                                             ANNEX 2C
growth in unemployment to date has encouraged some in the Government to consider reducing the 2%
levy, which has made it difficult to get them to agree to any extension of the base (such as extending it
from enterprises to the budgetary and agricultural sectors; see Annex 1, paragraph 14). If, however,
unemployment does not increase (as in Scenarios 7-9) the EF should have a substantial positive balance,
which could encourage authorities either to divert the revenues to general budgetary use or to sustain
employment in unattractive enterprises by, for example, making cheap loans available.
0A N         a
ixe~~e N SSeSNs co. 
.8'   Q 000-S   0.          Lf                i    
CW0.n     .             Xlp
C                                                   - -     -__
IL
C
0       o                            8.f 8.'  ea -.'    R 
E         8    o  o c
0
CL~~~~~~~~~C
E(o~~~~~~~~~~~
an
N   0 C>~~
a,-
E
0                              E
C                          U.~~~~~~~C
CC      - 00   0'  r
>             LO  to 
C
C                     co__ _ _
'I,                                                     0    .t-
to,. CI       0 ~0 U
CL eff~~~~~
CL~~~~~~~
E~~~- 
c                                                             -~.
C~~~~~~~~~
.2
a   UU



ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCrURE OF EMLOYMENT DEPARTMENT
Minister of LabOr
U*Wr or Ennslopocot                tt Epopi 
Fa                    Fund     
Colkgium        I- - - - - - - - - - - - - -                   asainnan or
1                                                                                        |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Depluy auin   n      I   cad ftpdrl I
Loitia WA A                 Aditinis Iration or 
_~ ~ ~~~~o                           Asgtea U"PhScz  roicedion I                                                         llErnmuctoll a                nmtat  rst
Colilrol Div;&to            ;frU   nplo).  Cd                 n                        nSmte                      Publtisng Division    ,Emzployment Service
.  Depafumnat       -     7     Cemputkilt Ccntcr
Enipelen                 
Legal Regulation         Assistance &
DiviXt                   Special Provas,   _
I Porenotion                |Ceatder for Infiomtniot |        cneirsl Division 
A S tppet                      T  echnologies   |
_         I ~~~Depauet                  |      (PavtW&r)
soeia AUowm
v ivisort                 Dcptimcd
Acconting A                           rsms k 
| Ucpwng DinW                     Stfiadi Di                                                                            .






oitGAKNizArIONAL STRtUCTURtE OF MINISTRY Ol: LAOR
minlisicr or Latbor          
|First DC, ty laiiter|     | Deputy Minister  ||DP"ty N{igt ||                                        CQmI            |        IDpn tinisiac   |lanw          | Dcty Milliliter |CUy11lSC
>     I     l_   _              I             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Employnent Pali is|Fposleit Deparbmnt                   Latwf Protectiont            Lalaor Migiration
.  _   l   .                      l              Dcpun          l           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dcparticnt
Comlviiciiil Leooomty l     |   irilg Stalnlaris                     cnnd                                  Lalwor Prolestioa     iito hliva I 
_     ivisiUll           <       nld confrol              _         sector                                  Depaitn - t       _5DC IivO'sI  
,10 nzerploYe^             |      C.11loeves                     3 esliloyces                             Jl mulployesc                    20 empwloyees
w.    '        I s4.i.~~~1 flaotW.^l.ir
Wa6csOI                   ISsUCs virdisioll                eepRlte   i
Divsio                                                                Sector             See allieinilit clan
1 cmilhyccs      ~107 cnlph4)ces
tJlaf            t-bot~L  ill Non-slats~"
wiviAier                 Ec-onomny Di"ision                  f:ill nsc and 
_          _                                 _      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Accotltlting 
2 employee                   3 en5lyss_                               No 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ cimployces
2 nnrloScs~~~~~~~~~~~~~cLo
17 rtiploye4 ,
I  alil'l |s
ln o wwtion     |
M uiing Sodor"
it am e






KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 3. DETAILED FEATURES OF SOCIAL SERVICES COMPONENT
A. Background
1.            Traditionally enterprises - especially large ones - have often been responsible for provision
of social services not only to their employees but also to the general population in their conmmunities.
These services included housing and related utilities, healthcare, kindergartens, community facilities
(cultural, recreational and sport), summer camps and dormitories. Local governments provided similar
municipal services in parallel. The share of municipal and enterprise services varied, depending on the
local productive profile, and the comparative financial and administrative capacity of local authorities and
enterprises. For example, in Almaty municipal services dominated, while those provided by enterprises
were limited and targeted primarily to enterprise employees. In smaller communities, dominated by one
or several large enterprises, firms have delivered the bulk of services.
2.            With hardening budget constraints and privatization of state-owned enterprises, firms have
begun divesting non-productive assets and in many cases have transferred facilities to local governments.
When a municipality is unable to accommodate additional facilities, case-by-case solutions are being
sought, including: (a) enterprises transfer ownership of facilities to local administrations, but continue
financial support for an interim period; (b) enterprises close social services and commercialize the
premises; and (c) enterprises continue to provide some basic services, including operating costs in the
costs of general production.
3.            In order to preserve essential social services, the Govermnent is seeking strategic solutions
to this problem, including preparing - with project support - a national strategy for dealing with
divestiture of enterprise social assets, and ensuring continued access to essential social services. As far
as housing is concerned, the Government believes that the main avenue of discharging enterprises from
expenditures is to deepen privatization. However, this complex issue is being addressed separately. It
was agreed at identification that the Project would focus only on selected health facilities (polyclinics and
hospitals), and kindergartens.  As the first step in developing a meaningful divestiture strategy, local
governments need to assess the essential facilities which they are able to sustain.  All other services
would need to be privatized, closed or retained by enterprises without state support. In many cases
facilities with low rates of occupancy could be amalgamated.
4.            As a long-term solution for sustained development of social services, broader sectoral
approaches are needed. Reforms to the health care system have been proposed by MOH in provision,
financing and management. New operating and financing principles in the health sector would contribute
to sustainable development of public health services. The Project focuses primarily on restructuring of
municipal financial mechanisms rather than on broader sectoral changes, though it seeks to facilitate
implementation of such reforms in the pilot oblasts.
5.            A clear definition of the social role of kindergartens needs to be developed. In some
cases they are primarily day care institutions facilitating female employment. In others, they are early
child development centers, since they provide pre-school education, primary medical care, nutrition,
inununization etc. Yet the coverage rate nationally is only around 40%, in some cases due to the limited
capacity of the system. Though more work is being completed under the project on the incidence and
impact of state-funded kindergartens, a critical minimum of kindergartens should be preserved in each
project city in the short term. In parallel with Project inplementation, the Government should revise



Page 41                                                                            ANNEX 3
the principles covering access to kindergartens within the framework of a national strategy for social
services.
6.            Both national and local governments should also consider the commercial aspects of the
divestiture process. While most enterprises are keen to divest themselves of social services, they are
often not keen to divest themselves of the assets which have commercial value as real estate. While
some flexibility should be given to companies to choose whether to retain social services or not, in cases
where social facilities are closed and premises are commercialized, local governments may need to
support divestiture of assets for the benefit of the community, or develop arrangements for allocation of
leasing revenues.
7.            The Project assumes that in the context of local budget constraints, the only ways to
sustain essential social services in a community are to: (a) undertake comprehensive rationalization of
social expenditures; (b) raise cost effectiveness of services; and (c) bring total social spending into line
with local budgetary constraints.
8.            There are various options in developing city-specific rationalization strategies, including:
(a)    Amalgamation of services. Released assets could be used for commercial purposes, thus
contributing to modest revenue increases for local budgets;
(b)    Improved targeting of social services for vulnerable groups;
(c)    Introduction/increases of userfees, through charges for selected medical services, and
increased fees in budget kindergartens (with appropriate exemption schedules);
(d)    Privatization of non-essential services. These services could be targeted to the higher
end of the consumer market, and provide optional services in education and health care
of higher quality; and
(e)    Closure of some facilities in cases where: (i) there is over-supply; and/or (ii) the
community can not properly finance them.
B. Project Approach to Individual Types of Social Assets
Kindergartens
9.            Kindergartens play a broader role in education and child-care in Kazakhstan and other
FSU countries than they do in Western countries. Children attend from around 2 years of age until
primary school (at the age of 6-7). Attendance, however, has never been universal and has recently fallen
to around 40% of the respective age group. The major coverage is in urban areas.
10.           In 1992-93 the share of enterprise-owned kindergartens declined from 72% to 60%. The
decline appears to have accelerated in many regions since that time. Trying to sustain the kindergarten
system in both the budget and enterprise sectors, the Government has allowed increases in user fees up
to 30% of food costs. However, a generous fee exemption and reduction schedule has resulted in lower
than expected fee revenues. The project seeks to support continued kindergarten provision, by promoting
more cost effective operation (e.g. improved food procurement practices; revision of specialist teacher
ratios), and support for a more transparent and better enforced fee schedule.



ANNEX 3                                                                            Page 42
Medical Facilities
11.          Three types of medical facilities are operated by enterprises: polyclinics, hospitals and
sanatoria. Polyclinics provide basic health care. Though they offer basic health care services, they are
staffed by health specialists, since there has traditionally been no general practitioner training in
Kazakhstan. In developing methods for more effective polyclinic service delivery, a number of issues
arise which relate also to the operation of hospitals (e.g. referral practices).
12.          Local governments already run most hospitals, though some enterprises "sponsor"
facilities, contributing to selected expenditures. In the two oblast capitals (Shymkent and Pavlodar cities),
there are also a number of oblast hospitals, which perform certain central functions for the whole region.
These operate to a significant degree in an integrated manner with municipal hospitals (e.g. common
emergency rosters, centralization of common functions). The size and cost of the health system in
project cities will not increase to any significant degree as a result of divestiture. The overwhelming
majority of hospitals and polyclinics are already on the budget, so that the bed/facility increment is
marginal. The project would support an integrated approach to provision of different levels of healthcare
in the participating cities.
C. Features of Project Design and Implementation
13.          The Social Service Component is of a pilot nature. It would provide support to five cities
in two oblasts: Shymkent, Kentau, Lenger (South Kazakhstan oblast), Pavlodar and Aksu (Pavlodar
oblast). The five cities have different economic and demographic conditions, so that models developed
will provide lessons for replication in various parts of the country.
14.          While overall implementation responsibility for the project remains with the central
Government - which has established a PCU in the MOF to coordinate project activities - implementation
of the Social Services Component will be done predominantly by the administrations of the two oblasts
and five cities. Local and oblast administrations have been involved in project preparation since its early
stages. They have developed rationalization proposals, and draft first year work programs have already
been prepared as a condition of negotiations. The project will finance necessary technical assistance.
In particular, technical assistance and training will be provided in:
(a)    financial management;
(b)    sector-specific mnanagement practices in health care and early education (including
specialized procurement);
(c)    strategic and operational planning;
(d)    monitoring and evaluation; and
(e)    staff and management training.
15.          The Project will be carefully monitored, partly to ensure effective implementation, partly
to identify improvements in social service policy and provision that would inform a national strategy.



Pafe 43                                                                                ANNEX 3
16.           Under the Loan, the following types of expenditures would be financed:
(a)    modest rehabilitation and upgrading of selected health and kindergarten facilities financed
by the budget, regardless of their origin (ex-enterprise or existing municipal);
(b)    purchase of critical supplies and equipment for selected budget medical and kindergarten
facilities (medical equipment, drugs, vaccines, textbooks, kitchen equipment), regardless
of their origin; and
(c)    financing of recurrent costs of divested facilities on a declining basis with a condition of
local co-financing.
D. Sustainability of Services
17.           In the long run sustainability of local social services can only be ensured with general
increases in productivity and tax revenues which are a direct result of economic growth and strengthening
of tax administration. This would be a key feature for replicating project models nationwide. However,
it is also crucial to ensure short term support for social services under the present pilot project. Estimates
show that while in most localities this is feasible, in Kentau, the financing gap emerging with the increase
of publicly supported social facilities will be difficult to bridge by rationalization, cost recovery and
privatization. Such localities with low tax base would require some support from the oblast and/or central
budget, at least in the medium-term.
18.           Sustainability requires that cost increases for kindergartens as a result of divestiture are
offset by the end of the project by: (i) rationalization/cost savings in the health sector on an almost
constant number of budget hospitals/polyclinics; (ii) fee revenue, from introduction of health care user
charges and increases in kindergarten fees; and (iii) reduction of inefficiencies within the municipal
kindergarten system, resulting in savings without affecting quality of service (e.g. more competitive
procurement practices). Provided these reforms can be introduced in the five cities, the Government
wil not be required to spend any more in real terms after the project than it does currently on the
selected services, despite the fact that the transfer of social assets is initially adding an average
across the five cities of around 20% to local social expenditures.
19.           Given a health system where initial costs are roughly the same, the project aims to
facilitate/leverage significant cost reductions and new sources of revenue over project life, to ensure a
more affordable system (with the caveat that broad sectoral reforms are not the objective of the project).
Cost reductions could be of several types, including: (a) closure and merger of small specialist facilities
into departments of general hospitals. This will save substantial amounts in utilities costs (which run up
to one third of total facility costs), even if all staff etc. are transferred to the other facility. Savings will
be higher if some staff can be encouraged to set up private practices; (b) centralization of services for
hospitals (e.g. laboratory; equipment repair/maintenance) which are currently duplicated in inefficient
ways; (c) revision of treatment protocols nearer to international standards, to reduce high average length
of stay for non-acute patients; and (d) introduction of revised payment mechanisms, such as capitation
or fee-for-service. The two main options for new sources of financing are: (i) introduction of user fees
for selected health services; and/or (ii) introduction of mandatory health insurance (with locally generated
revenues preferably kept at the local level). The Government in its Memorandum of Understanding
(Annex 1), has indicated that it is considering introduction of both options as a priority.



Basic Inventory ror Sociali Assets                      eShy      ik t (iii prics ofMny 1994)               ____I.L              .........
__________  Hmunbu,  Cn.poc3y    Stafr    Salana        Pood                   LAiladaW      Cili         Toali      Spse         tw       O           Ta(-5
*  k;gdogMCm            62     10.191    2,321    1 .303,100    1.457.400  1445 670    2.032.300    1.727.000   7.o32,670    400.200      0      400,200     7.435,.370
Slwpitsta       I      ~~~~4210  69      220.000       70.000      45.000      16.000         00        3500         7500        0       7.0         4300
Parosy icsi             4      .9.500    155       6".600          0        3,500      46.000       23,900       135.000     27.700      0       57,700       592,70
____ __                 0         0    . 0         0         0                             0           :01  0  0               0               0        _ __0
D.nnito~~~ia     30      5)72      314      169.900           a      21,350     455.100       53.420      712,600        7,500      a       7.100       719.70
S%Unn,,a"M"ps          54      6.260     541      469.500    2,255,900     13,2100    1.1140,400  .1.4220      47090        3650          0     356,300     7.507.400
ToSmi .        III    2~~~~2.450   -4,515    2FLO70               701.930    4.410.400    2,2.2        5,4.7          9.500       0      1650       5,2,7
____ ____ ___ Local_ro@ ernnifcnt        __ __ _
ki.iinLrgadams   52      2,96    2,752      300,700     935.200      65,500     935.300      241.460     3.069,260      9$.340      0      95.340     2,565.100,
[espsas                9      4,520    1,592   . 2703,0001    9O.OIpO     7G9.000     560,000       35.000    4,322.000     670.000      0      670.000     5.492.000 
ro5w5ina               to   I5I0.300   . 5,546    675.0001 ____ 0           3.000      23.000     .10.000       751.000      40.000      0       40o000      71,0000
5..nmI.rja        2~~~ 700         660      237.300     90ooobo      16.000      46,000           0      5.590.20       10.200     0       50.300     1,209,600
Dofnfihorics            0         0        0           0           0           0a -                                               0      0           0             0                      0)
muma'csuupS   0         ~~      ~~~0 0a                   0           0           0            0            0           0       0           00
Toltl                  74    124.556 5255       4.530.000    2.735.200    154.100    1.362,300    233.4G0      9.303,560)    116.140     0      356,540    506C.0 
Klndcagutens          114    19.524    5.574    2.292.300    2.32.SOO     506.770   2.914.10   5,1973.460    10.134.930     496.040      0      494,040    SoASO0.970
I .1 Ii11oupWI           I0      4,540    9.271   7.921.000     970.000     354.000     376.0001-    .13.000     5.II5.000     745.000      0     745.000     5.926.000
.1ye1m~~~cs     54   120.300  k. 5697      736.600           0       I 5,300    71,0001      -53.90       353,.000     97,700      0      97.700       950.7o00E
Iuu,aSsrEa     3       ~~~~    ~~700  660  237,200   000,000      56.000      46.000       .*'0 559.3o0             50.200      0        0.0       520.0
Dorm..oic              20      3,972     316      569.900          0       35.510     453,700      533420    ..712.600        7,100      0        7,100      719.700                     H
Sumrna'fcaanpa         5 4     6,260    '540    i469.100    2.135.900     513,200    1,340.400    1,402,300  ~ 6.750.900    336.500      0      256.500     7.107.400
Total                 135    157*006   51,066    G,323,700    7,552.700    5,562,050    3.773,20  2,563,030    74.851.730    1.712.640   0    1.712,640    25.$64.370



SHWIgENT.XLS
Bansic_Invyentory for Social Asscis              _____Simynakecnt--iIz zI-                                                                         -..-I
______    ~~~~~~~~~~'Recoou Cawls (iwlhlnr per yar)                                                   _ ___   n,ladCfS(d3I*i P-r Y-u)                 ___
___________  ~~~4Uu6tr   CaPsaly    stair     Satani.6      Food          ..lv        Ik~           I.u     ~     ..         u.1rc        em       Total         Total
Enterprise__ _ _ _                          __  _ _  _   __ _ _ __ _ _ _ _
XJu.cgrgenI,u           62      10,19S    2,321      279,936      397,527      121.546    :559.711       473.727    41.932.455       109.145      0       109,143     2,041,601
IImputals         ~ ~~~~1 420        679        60,000       19.091       12.273     - 4.164          7,132     - 97,909       20,455       a       20,4353    :   1,
7  r.i,dh..a        ~~      ~~~4 9,300  151       IGlO00            0         955     -32.543 -:      -6.311        36,113       15.736       a       15,73         52.355
Sanaltoia                0       .0           a            0            0                      .. a            0              0           0l      0            0             0
Ounsalaicv              30       5.972     236        46,236         *0          3,617      124,722.    133,13          394,545        l.926      a         1,93i       196,2112
Suuviwtt ca.npS          24      420        541        31,934     194.920       12,491      12.1    .*561              .460,239       24,207      0       2,0            3,9
Total                   1111    32.450   .4.515      535,057      61 I 129     1533771      376.391      :593.153     2,721I1111     171.5310     0       171.5301    2,3193,396
Local    o cnminczt                                                         ._ __ _ __                                               __  _
K3"Tdcortrm             52        .9     . 2.7153  ~-243,373      253.03s       16,664   .254,127        :65,135        327.071       26.13t       0       26.133       136.209
* IIospIaIs       ,l~~~~~~~~~. 4,20    3,'9  733,545      24X.45       20,2         . 9.13m12  .::23.112    :1,313.091       132.727       0      3192.727     1.497.3113 
30    110,300    1,346      3lX4.091           V        2,3312     6. . 113 -: '.v2,727  ....                 0,909      0        10Z!09      206.727
SarnImaa          ~ ~ ~~~~3 700       660       64.71       24I7-5.jV5,$   4,364    *.1.4                    .    27,a1J        2,309     .a         2.#0 J      329.1191
Ocirnitoda      a          o.w~~~~~~~.a Oi   .                 0       -   C            0             0~. f         0            .0      a            a             a
;S.,w.r.c,anqiw            0          a        0~o.                    .0        .*   0.....0*-~o                       :      0            0       0       ***..*             0
Tea                   74    124,556   13,533  '-.1.232.727      743,964      232,936      371,673   .91,762         2,673,062     '222.534      0      '222.514   .2.397,645
All                   .          
Krk-indatuew            3 s,              3,574      673.309      652.532      133,210      1333,45       W53950      2,769,576      135.723 1401 1       333.224     2,904,310
IlffpJIahi        30~~~t   4,340,  P.2731      793,543      264.345      222,000  .302345          '23.364      I.A12.000     203.312       a      103.311      1.61G.112
1`POI,I,WCO              14    320.200    1.697      200.191            0        3,136       19,364  .. 9,243           232.636       26,643      0       26,64i        259.2v2
3   700      .~~~~640   64,711      243.413        4.364       12.134) ..     0          327,052        2,109       0        2.3091      329J.103
Dowuulone,        3~~~~~0 5.972    .314  A.&4,26                 0         3613.3- 24,217    I>1 I.1S5            94,245         1.93G      0        1.936        196,211
S unrnk-r atnups          3 4     6,360      3541       31.914      194,720       12,491 ,    125,412       95,61 1      460,23        24,307  , 0          24,307       4114.313
TWA    _____         3       I 151,006    33,066    1,767.784    1.3S7,3b2  333,334    3,193,064     -614,9313  ...-3.396C.3r79   394,136       0    -.3294,363     S.91'.042
re-e--7,---- -qiafktxo cc    ~
c~ ai in e i,  tib o ks   cAL ~   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _            _ _ _ _ _ __                _ _ __2



KENTrAU.LS
z
Basic Invenito ryor Social Assets                          ilCcntaui (in price  of May' 1994) .i                   
*.  RecLwrit C@sls (lcng. pet nwa,da)             I       ,.                KIwaaet coos (logeI3 per mnonhlh)____
_______________   ~~  Cap~~icily  i~malr   .Sulanres  F:ood  Lawusky        tlitlers    *:Oth&u>  Total     Supptiea6   Other    Ttal         Toutl
iCindergaslau   ~~~.22      3.471    974      529,500   267,053      2,990      411,095       2i,2341   1.223,011    153.541        0    152,541     1.391.552
iIo,p,1a32          3~ ~~~~ 930    262         42,600    30,300      2,1100    147,200 '..   7, I010     313,500     40,400        0    4U,400        553,900
ro1ydii3cs                0           0      0            0          0         0            0.:.   .0                 0         0         0         0             0
Sins(oria                 2       2,100   'p.- 9  .: 36.200     41,100     6,900      326,900       483,00      459.600     20,300        a    20.100       420.400
Dunntsittic              12        967      37        15,373         0       U33  a 30.554           3,340       55,300      5.229       0O      5.329        60,429
Sumrncr camps    2        2~~~~~350  63      54,600    253~       3.500       993100       4650        21.0         4.500   44,20      6,7           5,7
TotlI                    391      73862   1526 ~..673,273   444.75Rq    17.023    1,015,349        395,301     2,531,411   249,570   44,370   293.940      2,145.3Sft
Local governincnt            ______               I.
Ku~~Lv;uitcnz       3       ~~~ 551    199     431.365   34.632       1I50      23 490      -6,300        113,137    26.350        0    26.350        145.087
I osti'tas                10      t.317  13229      570.100    174,506    20,100      212,400   . 727,500      1,655,200    3 1 C.00      0    116.000     1,771,200
1'olyelinueS              3      62 600  -.192       35,000          0     2,000      370.50     .  ,00         264.700     22.300    3,V000    23,100       211,500
~~n,u,I,wa          3       ~~~~ ~ A60    33  76,100    36'I,300    12,6(10    4642700       G1.300      7 711,500    151,100      0    153,700       920.200
D~~~nniiorics   0     .0~~~~~~~~~~:.0:     ~~00                O.*                        0 0  0          0                     0                   0
Sumgiacrcanilps                 0          .0 0           0          0         0            0.  .        0            0          0        0         00
Tut.1                    22      72,923   1.391-3   729,565   323.422    26,050    '175.590        302,500   .2,1.337,2    21G.350    3.000   2317,330     3.134.937
___________  All__                              _  _    _  _  __    _ _  _
KinAkrgaulau             30       4.022   1.173     577,3165   301,690     3,740  .*439,585     23,31631    ,3253.743    114.391         0    134,1193     1,536,639
111433i (ala      33~     ~~~ 9,297  .31,592  562,700   2325,200    23,500     359.600      997,600    2.161.700    156.400        0    156.400     7,225,100
* 3oiydl;ins               31    62,600    191        22,300         0      2,000      3-10.500     -7,200       7 64,700    22,200    1,000    23,300       233,500
Swliatona            .    3       2,560 '276        112,300    205,400    39.500      791,100      109,300  .1.232.100   172.500          0   372,500      1.430.600
Dornn1orics             I12        967      37       13,373         0        133       30.554        3,3401    . 5,00         329        0      5,329    ..60,429
Si,aivner camys           2        350  ..63         54,600     35,100    *i,5oo      9t9,go0  . a 46.500      290.200     24,500   44,270    631.370       359,070
Total                    631    20,196   3,339    1,345.623   S2.1,9P    53.073    3.819,139    1,393,303     5,363.5483566.420   45.370   633,790         5,930,3323
*m.e.decine.s, equipmtnt, textbooks. atc'. .                                                                                   
Pone I



l(E14TAL.XLS
Bnsic Inveiito    ror Socini Asscts                              Kent1ii 
Itemrrnt Cosa (dol1sa. I~  yr)      _________                    ____   ni'.ktncmi otsu1 ("lua per Year)
fruJ,,,Capacity    StnIT        Uslanca       rood     Laus:dqy     Ufjlitics      Other        Total      Sp1,A1O~  OIhcr        Tatal         Total
___ ___ ___ ___ __ Etiterprise_____-
Kh,,d,,r~~~~rten, ~22        3,471     97.2      144,409      72.134        815       112.117        6,100       336.276      43,23 1        0     43,233        379.514
_________________   ~ ~I  -930         363        11,611     23,253        764        40.145       73,6642       140.045     1,.022         0     11,023        151,064
Polyvlinics                            0 0       0            0           0          0            0            .0             0          0         0           0              0
Ssautoria                   2       2,200      899        9,873      11.209      I,3M     I  89,233        13,2217      1225,345      5,673        0       5.673        131,012
Donsiurturks               12         967      37         4,193          0        227         8,333         2,275        13,02-7      1,453        0       1,453         16,4311
Susmnenr caei,ps            21        350      63         3.723       53,30       239         6,503         3,j170       I 9,7 36     1,670    3,025       4,6961       24,482
T01.11                    '391      7,162   2,326       173,115    103,74~   3,927          256,5541       93A436       636.480     63,053     3,015      66,0791       702,559)
Local_ guyernmenCtt            _______                     -                                                               -I-I-                      -
K4k-rg,11rn                          351     199        13,190      9,443        203         7,770         1,773        32,313      7.1KG         C       7,116        39,56'
llosphLah                  10       8,331    1,229      141,845     47.50 !f.    5.645       57,927       19g,409       451,411     31,636         0      31,636       483.055
Pl'oytliniC                 3      63,600     195        23,112          0        3435       46,500         1,964        72,191      6,218       273       6.491         71,6127
Sam,tnri                    I         .26O  1.   7       20,755      44,110'     3,436.     126.600        16,721       212,3115    41,373          0     41,373        253,691
Dopiio;0                          0.     0.            0          0          0             0             0             a          0         0           0              0
Sugeeoeicr ca.reps          00                   00                       0          0            0             0..           0           0        II          0              0
TotA s                     22      '72.923   1,313      191,971    101,145       9,1132     233,797       2111,116.1    .763,310     1(6,4)4     273      36,61        V354,96
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ A ll_                         _  _     _  _  _      _  _ _     _  _   _
2;ndee~rpuns               3 0      4,022   1,173       157,600      32,279      1,020      11I9,127        7,7         361,659     50,425         0      50,425  .    419,083
1lospilnls                 I I      9,297   1,592       153,464     61.445       6-.409      93,073      '272.073       593,4G41   42,655          0      42,655       654.513
P'olyclinics                3      63,600      193        6,12 1         0        545        46,500         1,964        72,191       6,218      273       6,4911        73.6R2
sannliaia                    3      2,560     276   .-30,627        56,013       3,313      215,755        29,945       337,664     47,045         0      47,043       334.709
Dormitorie~s               1 2        967      37         4,193          U        227         3,333         2,275      ..15,027       1,453        0       1,433         16,421
sulnwrcanl2                    330      63         3,723      5.850        239         6,305         3,170        19,736       1,670    3,025       4,696         24.4112
Total                      6 1     30,796   3,3319      355,124    205,593      13,759      495,352       317,300      1,404,790    149,467     3,295    1322,763     1,337,555
*  medecines, equ prent. textbooks. etc.    _____                                                                                        



LErNGER.XLS
BtBsic Iniventor-y rol. Social_Assets                       ILeniger (in price  orm Ma   194 R            :
Recuwrcnt Cols (lente peraxwuiimB)                                Iuuvts2innt costs (tuen  per Meng%)     Total
_____________    Nan*cr    Capacily   Staff .  Salariwz   Food     Lonay wrillOhr os                                Spl           dw        oa         cowa
Eit(erprise
Kindtradelns                3        375      99,   45.300      63,400 __  .400    5I2,00       1 4,470     163,570            3,125       a      3,125      171.695
I ii,slitat                 0          0       0          0          0         0          0          0.          02.0                      0         .0            0
Polyctinics                 0          0       0          0          0         0          0          0           0I                0       0          0            0
Santoria            ~~         ~~      ~     ~~0  0  0  0     0         0    g 0             0            0                 0       0          0            0
___n____o __s_s             I         26       3      3,900         0f       500    .2,000        70         6.100             1,700       0 __1.700           7.300
Stivinunrcamips             0          0       01.        0          0         a          0          0           0                 0       0          0            0
ToEs!                       4        402     1041   49,200.   68.400 ,    2,900    34,000       15,170      169,670            9.325       0      93225      179.495
Local_governmnent-
I~~i,~.ktgsi1ciu  1II"         960    273      333100    141,000    22.000    2 6.500    159,400     427.700            22.000       0     32.000     449.700
I-lospilals   .                      300    G47    10K,900       6I0 .0    41.0001   -9.000                 623.9001         431,900       12   431.900    2.060.300
2'ulyilink's                I      14.000 JOIs ,.whkdd ino Ilk: alpovyg linc hw~IiuJ,.- twi3,bnkcal nifubib;6 c,q  ortlc-tldu csge Pw.flfticks inllnc
XNa-ultu,in      ~          00                 0             0  0                         0          0U0                                   0 0                     0
Dormitoric:i                0         .0   0         0         0          0          0         0      .          0        0            0              0            0
Sumnae~~~~~~~~~~~~~. _____             0'______0                                                                                            00
Total                      2      15.260    925    1 97.700    147,000    14.000   420.300   237,400    1,046,600            463.900       a   .462,900    1.510,500
Killdcrpztens            14"        1,335    377   .134.100    209,400     14.400    49.300    17.2370     531,270            40,125       0     40,125      621,395
hiospitals                  I       .300 -..647    020,900       6,000     2,000   424,000      92,000     62S.0Od           43 f.900      0   432,900    1,060,200
Polyclinics                 I      I4,00O      0          0          0         0          0         0            0                 0       0          0           0
Saniatoria0                           0. 0            0     0                  0           0             0        0          0                     0
Domlil"oics                 2         26       5      3,900          0       500      2.000       700         6.100            1.700       0      2700         7,300
Ssmg,,,,, Crcni,s*          0          0       0          0          0         0          0         0l.          0                 0       0         0            0
Total               2~~~~~~~       25,662 I 1029   2.16,900   2115,400  16.900   464,500    272.570    .2,26,270      473.725       0   473.725    1,639,995 
-mdedcln.s. equipment, textbooks,ec ____           ---. -'-                                                                                    -
*2 k~id.rerwtene are stuggested by local govornmont for closure______



LENGER.XLS
Basic li:ventory for SocAl Asset   ':iLonger--
-       umba      capscfty  'staw?' s Sularks    Food     LMaiwb    tulJdii      Oaa        :Te4thr"  'A    " 3 k$*I    Ouia      Total       Toutl
X;d-inia k,s                3     .flS        99     1-2,3S     13,635       6S5   ** 9.000      3,946      '44.610.:          2.216       0      2.216       46.3 26
______                 ____~~~0  'O     0                    0          0         0       -.       '                        a      0         .0            0
Polyclinics                 0          0       'O.        0          0         0l         0         0            :0                0       0          0            0O
sanatoria                   a          0       0           0.        0         0    i'   0                      '.O 0              0       0          0            0
Doru,iiur.gs        ~    ~ ~~I 26       5      1,064          II      136    *273          191 '%    1.664                464       0       464         2.127
Sunintctnips                    0         0         0         0          0          0         a      -          O                 0       0          a           0l
Toial                       4        401     104  ';A3.412    l3,65A~        791      9,273      4, 137 W    46,274            2.630       0      2.630       43.953
_______ _______ Loc2l  govcrnitint                                                          ---
1~~in.kcp,tau   22"  ~~~~   960    273       434513.73                       4,500    43.4T3      113,913             3,727       0      3,727      122,645
I wptiib          ______             300    647      29,700      1.6361      5451  112,909      26,727      171.51K          117.791       0    117.791      219.309
Pgu2~~.dllnZi~~i     I -   14.000 duoz p re    hi~ il c ol.ovc Iinc hinctilds Csuniht iarunhing c  ri.sflcai1, mage rocuiljics in cnge,  ________-
Sanatunn          0          0    *~~~*o*:      0       .0.           0         0          0*,          00                       000
.  0          0         i        0          0         0         0                                                 a :          
Sussuncicoanups                   0    0       O0              0          0          0    a                                            0        0           0
ThIul               ~~     ~~~~~2 15.260    925  )3,911    40.091    3.3131   117.409    70.200                                          173.3    1653 0 26,53 1  422.955
A ll         _  _   _              _  _                 _   _                          _  _  _
Kindtkf arens            14"4       1.335    37      36,513     57.109      3,927    13.500     47.419      2358.323           10,943      0     10.943      169.471
Hospitals                   1        300     647    '29.700      1.636       545   212.909      26.727      71,1521          117.791       a    117.712      239.309
2'olyClasuCs                2      14.000     a0          0          0         a          0         0            0        ~        a       0          0           0
Sanatoria                ,0            a       0          0          0         0          0          0          .0                 0       0          0            0
Dormitories       ______              26       5       1.064         0       136       273         192        2.664              464       0        464        2.127
Snumncr eamps               0          0       0          0          0         0          0         0            0                 0       0          0 _     __0
T91.I                       3      15.661 '.1.029    67.336     51.745'    4,609   226.632      742.337    332.720           229,293       0    129,123      460.90K
* -  edecln... equiment, tex~tbooke ec
-2 kkndergart.ns wer suggested by loasf government Jr clos                                                      ______xo__



PAVLODAR.XS
Basic linvczst  -y for Social As cis                         Ir-aviodar (in prIic s orm.y 19.94)                ____
-   Lasts ~~~WflfC p~~r manIla)  -                __________ Jn~~~hvesumnew costs (Icg pa   oah
______________Numlbc  (CapaciLy   SinIT       salaries      IlwxI     LatundrY    Utilities    Otlw,r        Total      Suipplics    Oflier     Trotal        Toaln
____ ____ ____ Enterprise._                    _  _ _ _
Kinxdargartos            35  1- 3,597    3,312       3,141.100    2,152.000    .19.30    2,147,900  .222.500      3.445.300       153.600      0        153.600     1,596.900
~~ Ilospitals    ~ ~~..4   .:23205        579       311.200      169.700    41003.0                 2010         1.042.400      G447600       a       642.600     1.GS15O000
*Pot  tb,lics               4    54,903  :439           342.330           o      3,3        :o,ooo      ioo.ooo       586.130       159.800      0        159,goo      745,930
* Sannlri                   9       1.104 ~.529         479.000      502.500    30.200      632.SOO    1.125.000     2.119.300      313.700       0       212,700     3,133.000
Donmilorics              37    10.139       553       501.300      *    0    -41.580      640.900     231,300      1.4613,50      222.200       0       222.200     1.690.700
Sum~mer camps             31    2.790       634       425.100      766.000    95.7b0    1,102.0001   1.631.300     4.070,600      426.000       0,      426,000     4.496,600
Tolil                   147[   3&531    6.617        5.200,510    4   .200   265$.050    4.934.300    3.7ti.100    1,30.230.10   1.917.900 I    0      1,917.900    20.343.130
____________ Lcail toar rnnacni
* K.indcrgortcns           32 *.  .115 ..1.262           570.100    1.347,900    22.200     7n32100      129,100    -2.911.9001       S2*l001     0        52.100      2.065.000
I 1nspitoL~~~       3     2,900    4,372      3,9791200    3,Oq00O    429.100      C50.100      611.000     2.676.100     3.1917.0001    0      31.997,000    17.S73.100
Palytliuks        6  ~~~242.617    1.091       399.100           0      2,100  .120.100         55,900     1.077.600      292.700       0       392.700      1.470.300
*   aaoria                I       175      130        123.0       2tD,500      3.000      39.300       30.600      46.10          66.000       1       6200          .2.0
* Durnijlorics              0         0         0                   0                a           .                                         i      1  0
Sunimmrtrcrnopn                      0        0             0            0         0            0           0             0             0       0a                          0
'romnI                   47   25O.177  -6.161        5.576.108    4,603,40o    457,700    1.591.100    939.600    13.123.200    10.003,xt00     a    10.0wig11)    213,132,100
Kuindctgrlrtn           117     1 S.121    S.Isl    3.li1.900    4,229,900    72/.00    2.91.0.200    411.600    11.356,200       205.700       0       205.700    11.561,900
* i i-s E111s~~-           12      6.10$    4,911     4,219,400    3,161,10o   470.190     931.100      113.500     9.713.500     91,539.600     a      S.9,59600    19.2151.100
P 1olyclinics               10   197,510    1.530      1.241,110           0      1.159     200,100     215.900      1.663.720       552,500      0       552,500      2.316.220
Samaloria         ~~~.10   1,279      659       607,300     1763.000    33.300     721.100    1.155.600     3.211.000       975.700      0        9F75.11)0   4,256.700
ADorinilories             31      2 0.339    553        501.300           0     44,500    .640,90       2311300     1,46t,500      72.0          0        222,200     1,69)0,700
Summjier ammps            1      2,790      034       425.100      76G,000    95,700O   1.102,000    1.611.100    4,070.600       426.000       0       426,000     4,496,600
.otaol                     194   337,213  .13.471    10,777.310    3.92'7,600   722.750    6.526.100    4.604,700    31,531,530    11,921,700      0    11.921,700    43.430,230
.nwedecines, eq,aipmcnl,  extbooks, eta'_ _ _ _ __---                                                       _ ____ _      _ _ _ __ __ _ _ _ _
paea 1



PAVC-ODAR.XLS
Bnsic_Iniventtory ror Social Assets                            Inld                                                                                                   ____
Rccturcnit Ces(dJollon PCi rw                      ______inveslmcnl costs (dollars per year). ______
______________Nuinber  C   ily SInIT           Sninrics       Food    .Lasuncky    UUIiws         Offir         'roti       sti 1bc'   Other         Irotaui       ToWdi
Eaulerprise
KizndcCrLrtens            Is     13.597   3. 93.1       136.664      786,000     32.53,2    515,791       60,682      2.302.7121       41.392       0         4 I39 I    2,3A4,609J
Iklopila2s                 4      1.205      579         14,227)      46.009     22.2112     76.636       6S,591        214.291       173.753       0        175.255       459.345
2'olyclinics               4     54.903   K .439         93.376            a      1.023       2212311      43,636       159,1354       43,512       0         43,532       203,435
Snroitorin                 9      1.104      329        130.636      137.0431    31.204      116,136,    .306.128       768.900        35,555       0         15,555       1534.4,5
Donnilaries               37     10,339      553        136,555      a'          12.136      174,791      7673          400.500        60.600       0         GOGO         462,0
* o~nercnznps            I       ,9        634        21,934       52,227 ,,,~325          75.236      224,.661      277.5411        29.0451      0         29.045     ..306;586
aolI                   1471  1.6.438    6,617        1,331.318    1-).8        32.711    1.120.309      661, 11t4    4.193.104       435,927       0       435.927      4.629.7312
* KIdLg             ~~~~~~32  5.225    1.268       255.673     3f4,609      4.2iM      213,333       3,1573        794.437140                  a429                   11,3
Hopitrils                8      2.900    4.372      1.014.964     311..112    117.711      17I7.300    '.26i.S4$    2,366,209      2J.426.435     0      2,426.4551    4.792.6644
ro!ydiiIicx  6   242.677  2.091  245.331        0       573       32.755       2~~~~~~~~~~~~1.1245  293.1192  107,100    0        107.100       4099
. it;torin                 I        175      130         3492   ___'.043           KI2N       10,718        3,345       225.2110.45                 0        230.345       36.6
Donnilorics                0          0        0             0            0          0            0            0             0              0       0              0            '0
SnnIoicr camps             0          0        0              a            of        0            0            0              0             a       0              0             0
TONI                        41I  2    250.177   .6.861   1.520.1145    1.256.1326    124.127   434.127      243.7091     3.530,445    -2,723,30'       0      2,721.30')    6,301,753
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ A ll                      _  _   _  _   _   _  _
KundcrKnrtens            III     281.722    5,151     1.012.336    1.133.609     1 9,800    799,143    ' 1222255      3,097.1245       56,200       0         56.200      3,153.245
liospatnis                22      6.103    4.951      1,169,136      164.191    J122400     252,936      2426         2.650.500     2.601.709       0      2,602,709     5,252,209J
Putlyclimiics             20   297,590   .1,530         333.6951           0      1.595       54.573       38,812       453,745       150.632       0        1$0.632       604,426
SantoiafIn               .20      2.279 .   659         165.627      203.091      9,032     I296,155     315,264        894.818       266.100       0        266.100      2,160,923
Domniiories               27     20,339      553        236,855           0      22,136       74.792     .:76.711       400,300        60,600       0         60,600       461.100
Siummer cranps             8      2.790      634         28,914       52,121      6,523       75,136 .   24.668         277.541        29.045.      0         29.043       306.516
*    rolni             . 194   337.31 15 3.473           2.052,333    2,2V1i.223    177,539    1,554,436    923,823     7.774.249      3.164,23d       0,    3,164,23      10.933,413
m nedecines. equlipmentl. textbooks. ctcl____________________                                                                                         ____          ____
Page 2



AKiSU.XLS
Basic Xnivent r  or ~Social Assets                           IAkcst -(in prices or Maiy 1 94) 
___________  Wander  ~Capacity    saixr     salies        1'o.J      LaauuliyhIk            OlJie        'roia       apil'    S            Tauta        ToutI 
___________Enterpris                                                               ___
kin&'razluw's    ~~12     3.160        713      540.400      235.300      4,500    44(6.000    107.100    1.433.300       72.900      0       72.900      1,506,200
lI@spitlsl                           0         0            0            0          0         0            0            0!    0          0         0                   0
PolYClHic                        4,400        53  n.107;40           3.300          0    121,900           0      23.2.400      30.000       0       30,000      262,400
Smanaion                 2        200         141     210.300      949.600      1,000    112,300       1 t.200    1,201.400     17,1100      0       17,800     1.309.200
Durmilerics             I 0      3,090       109       320 400       .          4.500    137.600      177,100     439,600       51,000       0       3100        49.0
S~Imnffwcamwps            I       320         66        72700       54-.000     3.000     29.000       13.000     106,200            0       a            DI      106.200
Tolal.                  261    11.170       1.091    .915,700 *1 .4)Do    13,000    146,200          315,400    3,502.900      171.700       0      171.7001   3.674,6003
Lovcal gpovcruinicfll.t
Kuai&r~~~u~Igns  S        11~~06    272       148.3001     95.700      I,100     23,500       42,300     327,400   ~.11II700        0       11.700      329.100
Hospitals                 I1      633        7591     723.000      14b,000    55,000     30,000    1.0 I5.000    1.972.000 ,:i.;917.000      0      9 17.O0O    2,1119,000
PuIyInial                 1      4.270        23       42.000      ~    0       3,000      1,000      36,00        91,000  N.3.0D0           0       36,000      127.000
Sunniotin                 I         50        22        16.000      I 000       3,000      5,000       15.00       5.00 .. 13.000            0       13.000i      76,000
Vonisilarieg0                             0            0         0                 0                 0              *.0              0       0           0             0
Snmiuuercsuai~~~~ie  I    120        20         3, 1000  :. 70,000     4.500     35,500      25,000       143,000           0       0            0       143.0O0
9      SIM)1      1.093   :.:.937.300    321.700    79.600    102,000    1.133,300    2531l~.-l0    -.912,700      0      912,700     356,0
All       ___                     ___          ___                     __        ___
Kiuwleq~~~aflen~~  17  3.966    9117 ~~ 633,700      43I.W00     11,600    469,500      1419.900    1.730.700     34600        0       :4.600     i1,35,300
IIos~~~nIslz      I~~       635        759    ;'723.000  1. 49,000    55.000       30.000    1.015.000    I.97-200    3000            0      9)7,000     2338)000
PoIycIieics      2       3~~~~.670    78    :149.400      -1:,0        5.000    129,900       36.000     323.400        66.000      0       66.000       3399400
SamIons           ~~       ~~~3 193   210,322   *.965,600: . 963.600     9,000    117,300       33.200    1,349,400    .35300         0       33,300o    3,315.200
Donmiilonc,       3~~~0 3.090          lOP     3210,4100           0      4,500    137,600      m7j,o0      439600 O00                0       53,000       490 600
SUMAII-ff CAsIPiS        2        440         36       '15,200     124.000      7.300    64,500       33.000      249200X          YSo       0           0       2491200
Tatal                   35      16,999    212.341    2.662,300    1,670,700    92,600    942,100    1.4.19.200    6.014.3001   115AI4400     0    1,154,400    -7,238 700
tanitu~n. tqui,pme  ca4 tSubOOks rc.                                        -     V__
Page I



AKSU.XLS
IBasic .[nvcni tory roir Social Assets                         FA-ksu                              ____    ________
__________                            ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ccU,fetn    C astLs     ix ,r   k_____               _  __ In   bmed  costs (dolla    pr ycar)_    _  _  _
NuiI& t      lct       StaIl'    sa2frics       Food      j..undry    Utilities   Outer        To'tal      SUPplICO    Other      Totld        TOLal
____ ____ ____ E nterprise t 
K~in&rWzcou              12      3.160        725      '147.312      91.445      1.227    121.636       29.209      390.900       19.382       0       19.132       410,712
Iloepilale      0           0          0           ~~~~                    ~~0  0  0  0  0         0                          0       0         .  0            .0
I'olychlinks              2       4.400        33       29,291          345          0     33.245            0       63.3132       31312       0         S. 282      71,564
Sanatoda           ~~       ~~~2 200    143   . .57,~53     253,932         273      30.627        4.964      352Z200 *.   4.355         0l       dj.IS      257.055
Domnilouics              J0      3.090        109  .?32,336           00         1,227     37,327       43.300      3  19;9.:    3.0                   399 I_   133.300 
Stimmnc,canips            I        320         66         '491        3,632        203      3.977          336        7,141            0  . 0               0         7.241
Trotal                   26      11,170      1.091    .267.355     .350055       -2.932    225.014      33.359      933,614       46.227       0       46.127       910,441
____________Local g'overnmentr(______                                                         ____
S    0O        272       40.445    .  26.100       3,936     6.409       22.673       36,564        3,391       0        3.392        39.755
llospituls         2~ ~~~ 635          759       2971232       406          25.O00   3.232      276.313      537.323.  250,093          0      250,091       717.909
3      4.270         25   ...  ,4355    .       0      1.364      2. 1 2       9.328      24,311.'       9.31K       0        9.323       3463
Snimtorm           I~~    50            22        43.364   ..333331       2.2332      3,364        4,091       15,333       .4.909      0         4.909       20,727.
DonTilorics               0          0          0            0            0          0          0            0            0            0       0            00
Suiitunircassips          3        120         20          545       .4 773        307      2,420        2,705        9,750            0       0            0a       >.5
9      3,3332     1,099     -253 993      .75.327     20.7K')    20.557      30-.2.05     674,76K      26K 009       0      261.009)      942.777
All        _  _  _      _   _                                           _   _
Kirwi,rga,lcns     2~~7  3.9661         937     I277327       22 17,545    3.164    121.045       40.112      477.464      .23.073       0       23,073       50(1.536
21os2,~~~~Ia2~~    2        6331       759       3971 332      40,636     25.000     3.332      276.323      5371,3I23.  .250093        0      2,93          737.90'9
Poalyclinkts              2      3,6701        71       .10.745          245     1,364     35.427        9,323       33.200       338000       0       .13.0001     106,200
Srnmtoria                          393     57.377     .263.345      262.2200     2,4553    31.991        9,0SS      36.0219   .   9.764        0 .764               377.792
D,nu,itorks              30      3.090        309       32,136  ..       .  0    (.227     37.527       43.300      139.391  1.32.909-         0       13.9091      133.100
Siiui,ucr cauilps         2        440         396        1,036    ..  ,435        531      4,393        2,593       16,993  ~                              0        16.993
Tut.1               33-        36,999  59,396      722,973     -4i0K2      23,720    24)3,70      317.464    t.6r01.312j~    314.13G      0      314.336      2.9232333 
melgne.qujpnmA.L Iexibooks. tec.                                                                                                          ______
Page 2



KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 3B. RATIONALIZATION PLANS
A. Background
1.            The central element in the Social Services Component is development and implementation
of framework rationalization plans and detailed annual work programs (WPs) for each of the participating
cities. While the plans and work programs would give clear outlines for efficient social service
expenditures, there would remain some flexibility in implementation, as rapidly changing economic
circumstances dictated.
2.            Detailed 1995 WPs have been prepared for each participating city in both South
Kazakhstan and Pavlodar oblasts. The WPs detail activities to take place in the cities concerned during
the first year of the project as restructuring of the enterprise sector continues and social assets are
transferred from enterprises. The priority facilities included in the project are kindergartens, polyclinics
and hospitals. The actual pace and magnitude of the divestiture have been assessed and tailored to the
particular circumstances of each locality. WPs would be prepared and reviewed annually, and an
assessment made of implementation of the previous years' program.
3.            The project has already provided assistance to local administrations in development of
detailed programs for transfer and restructuring of social assets, management improvements and
implementation of framework rationalization plans. Implementation of AWPs is expected to lead to
savings and increased efficiency in the management of kindergartens, hospitals, and polyclinics through
the removal of constraints such as underutilized capacity, duplication of services, weak financial and
budgetary management, inefficient equipment purchase and maintenance, and uncompetitive food
procurement practices.
4.            The detailed AWPs are based on the framework provided by the rationalization plans.
They are to be prepared annually by ad-hoc working groups within each local administration, which have
been assisted by external consultants in preparation of first year work programs. The first step for each
locality was to update the inventory of enterprise and municipal social assets and make an assessment of
their level of utilization, need for physical rehabilitation, and equipment and supply requirements. Based
on the information obtained, a first year asset consolidation plan has been prepared, including detailed
reconmmendations for closing or merging of facilities. A rehabilitation, equipment and supply purchasing
plan has also been defined. For enterprise assets, discussions have been and will continue to be held with
enterprise managers to reach agreement on an appropriate timetable for transfer of assets in a manner
consistent with the capacity of local administrations to manage them and finance resulting incremental
costs.
5.            Management Efficiency Improvements. The investments to be financed under the
project will not produce the desired results if overall management of social assets is not improved. The
project includes technical assistance to local and national administrators in the areas of financial and
budgetary management and expenditure control and reporting. Assistance would be directed particularly
towards developing sector-specific management skills in the health and education sectors, so that, in
addition to the benefits in facilities supported by the project, there would be efficiency gains in the
management of primary and secondary education. A number of fellowships and study tours would also
be provided, in order to give local and national officials exposure to effective management practices in
other countries. By including national officials in training, the benefits of lessons learnt during project
implementation can be incorporated into rationalization programs in other parts of the country.



Page 55                                                                        ANNEX 3B
B. Common Assumptions in Rationalization Plans
6.           A key element in the definition of transfer and restructuring programs would be
establishment of operating standards for essential social services that would be uniform within each city
and would apply to all assets, both existing municipal ones and those previously owned by enterprises.
As a first step toward definition of uniform operating standards, a set of basic common assumptions have
been mnade for the component as a whole: (i) unit rehabilitation costs per facility; (ii) unit investment
costs; (iii) unit supply costs; (iv) the percentage of incremental recurrent cost financing provided by the
Bank; and (v) the target level of cost recovery expressed as a percentage of recurrent plus supply costs.
These common general assumptions are summarized in Table 3b. 1:
Table 3b.1: Common Basic Assumptions
Cost per Unit
(US$'000)
Rehabilitation     Investment  Supplies
Kindergartens                   8                 1          2
Polyclinics                    10                6           8
Hospitals                      30                18          20
Incremental Recurrent
Cost Financing (%)
Year I     Year2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
Bank                            90          75          45          25         25
Government and beneficiaries     10         25          55          75         75
Cost Recovery (%)
Kindergartens                    10         12          14          16          18
Polyclinics                      2           4          6           8           10
Hospitals                        2           4          6           8           10
7.           Cost Recovery Measures. The difficult financial situation of both enterprises and the
cities make it unlikely that the latter can meet the incremental recurrent cost financing requirements of
the project under present circumstances, even with the financing provided by the project. The project
therefore includes gradual introduction of cost recovery measures for the services covered. User fees
would be set in a flexible and differentiated manner from sector to sector and in a manner to protect
socially vulnerable groups. The cost recovery schedules above therefore allow for some exemptions from
user charges. In the health sector, the ultimate target of 10% cost recovery is consistent with experience
in a range of middle income countries. For kindergartens, municipalities are already recovering some
of their costs under the authority of a 1993 Presidential Decree. Although revenues vary regionally
(according to the proportion of poor families, and fiscal and other factors in the area), current cost
recovery in municipal kindergartens in South Kazakhstan and Pavlodar oblasts is in the range of 3-6%.
so that the incremental cost recovery in PY1 would be in the range of 4-7%.
8.           Cash Flows. Revenues reflect existing fiscal revenues kept constant in real terms over
five years. This is based on the Bank staff projection of GDP growth becoming positive and staying so
from 1996. In addition, increased local tax revenues could be expected over project life (assuming at



ANNEX 3B                                                                             Page 56
least constant tax sharing rates between oblast and central Governments), as enterprises divest social
assets and are able to concentrate on their core productive functions. Tax sharing rates between central
and oblast governments have been assumed to be constant over project life, which is a conservative
assumption, given the national pattern of increasing local tax shares in recent years (e.g. Shymkent oblast
had its sharing rate on profits tax increased from 62% in early 1994 to 100% by mid-year). Existing
expenditures reflect current levels of spending kept constant over five years. Recurrent costs reflect the
portion financed by the Government as indicated above.
C. Overall Inventory of Social Assets
9.            The five project cities had a total of 372 social facilities of the types supported by the
project as of April 1995, of which 193 were owned by municipalities and oblast authorities and the rest
by enterprises. Table 3.b2 below provides the inventory of these assets:
Table 3b.2: Inventory of Social Facilities
Facility                             Municipal &         Enterprise              Total
Oblast
Kindergartens                              110                 171                  281
Polyclinics                                 27                   6                   33
Hospitals                                   56                   2                   58
Total                                      193                 179                  372
10.           As a result of the continuing asset transfer, municipalities would have to manage a
significantly larger number of facilities than they operate currently. This would lead to a serious
management burden and a substantial increase in their budgetary requirements. The proposals under the
project provide for the transfer of 89 kindergartens, 5 polyclinics and 1 hospital. The remainder of
enterprise social assets would continue to be run by enterprises, or be closed, merged with other units
or privatized. These proposals reflect the ability of the cities to manage the additional facilities. Table
3b.3 gives a summary of the asset restructuring program.



Page S7                                                                     ANNEX 3B
Table 3b.3: Summary of Asset Restructuring Program
Year I    Year2      Year3       Year4       Year 5
A. Kindergartens
(i) Transferred:
Pavlodar                           23         33         33          33          33
Aksu                                3          6          6           6           6
Shymkent                           30         40         40          40          40
Lenger                              2          2          2           2           2
Kentau                              7          8          8           8           8
Total Transferred                  65         89         89          89          89
(ii) Existing Municipal
Pavlodar                           31         30         30          30          30
Aksu                                5          5          5           5           5
Shymkent                           51         51         51          51          51
Lenger                              11        11         11          11          11
Kentau                              6          6          6           6           6
Total Municipal                   104        103        103         103         103
Total                             169        192        192         192         192
B. Polyclinics
(i) Transferred
Pavlodar                            0          1          1           1           1
Shymkent                            2          2          4           4           4
Total Transferred                   2          3          5           5           5
(ii) Municipal and Oblast
Pavlodar                            8          7          7           7           7
Aksu                                2          2          2           2           2
Shymkent                            14        11         11          11          11
Kentau                              3          3          3           3           3
Total Municipal and Oblast         27         23         23          23          23
Total                              29         26         28          28          28



ANNEX 3B                                                                                  Page 58
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3       Year 4        Year 5
C. Hospitals
(i) Transferred
Pavlodar                                 0            1           1            1             1
Total Transferred                        0            1           1            1             1
(ii) Municipal and Oblast
Pavlodar                                14           12          11           11            11
Aksu                                     3            3           2            2             2
Shymkent                                27          24          23            23            22
Lenger                                   2            2           1            1             1
Kentau                                  10            9           9            8             8
Total Municipal and Oblast              56          50          46            45            44
Total Hospital                          56          51           47           46            45
Note:   Figures are based on city annual work programs as of April 1995, and estimates of future closures and mergers of facilities.
D. Detailed City Inventories and Financing Plans
11.            Detailed proposals for each city in the two oblasts are provided below along with their
likely impact on finances of individual cities. Further data used in the preparation of the plans is
available in Working Document 4 for the project.
12.            Sustainability.  In each of the five localities divestiture of social assets would cause -
even with project support - emergence of a new financing gap in local budgets. Amounts were analyzed
and have been compared with several variables, such as: projected total local fiscal revenues; projected
additional revenues resulting from divestitures only; total recurrent costs of the to-be sustained facilities;
project financing of recurrent costs. Analysis shows that in the first two years none of the localities
experience severe difficulties in covering the gap. During Year 3 through Year 5 four of the five cities
(excluding Kentau) would be in a position to cover the gap without major problems. The deficit
expressed as a percentage of the total fiscal revenues varies from city to city. On average, it would
increase from 1 % in the third year to just over 2% in the fifth year. Options to close the deficit gap
include an increase in the level of cost recovery, an increase in the tax sharing rate of the oblasts, further
reduction in unit operating costs and more efficiency improvements.
13.           After the end of the proposed project, when the localities would need to finance not only
100% of recurrent costs but also critical supplies, two cities - Kentau and Pavlodar - would need to raise
their revenues significantly. In the case of Pavlodar, this is clearly feasible, due to the large size of the
city, its broad local fiscal base, and ample opportunities for private sector development. In the case of
Kentau, the situation is different and requires further analysis.
14.           Thus, with extensive and systematic rationalization of social services, managerial and
financial sustainability of services could be attained in all localities (with the possible exception of
Kentau). In each of the cities, significant net reductions of total social expenditures would take place
in the course of project implementation, thus diminishing pressure on local and central budgets. The main
conclusion from the analysis is that, while rationalization proposed under the project would be a



Page 59                                                                           ANNEX 3B
challenging task, and would require substantial mobilization of additional revenues, sustaining the services
without the project would be untenable.
South Kazakhstan
(i) Shymkent City
15.           The three cities of South Kazakhstan participating in the pilot project are Shymkent,
Lenger and Kentau. Shymkent is the seat of the oblast administration and the largest city.  It has a
population of around 450,000. The city has a relatively diversified revenue base, with a range of large
manufacturing industries. In addition, it is the closest large town to Tashkent, with potential to benefit
from growing cross-border trade. Its social assets include 56 enterprise and 57 municipal kindergartens;
5 enterprise, 9 municipal, and 5 oblast polyclinics; and 15 municipal and 12 oblast hospitals. These
assets are summnarized in Table 3b.5.
Table 3b.5: Shymkent Social Assets
Facility                Enterprise              Municipal         Oblast        Total
Kindergartens               56                     57                -           113
Polyclinics                  5                      9                5            19
Hospitals                    0                      15              12            27
16.           During the first year of project implementation, 30 enterprise kindergartens would be
transferred to the budget. It was agreed with local finance and education officials that 20 enterprise
kindergartens would not be transferred to the municipality as kindergartens (including 10 already closed
due to enterprise financial constraints). In addition, 6 existing municipal kindergartens in non-standard
buildings would be closed or converted to use for other purposes during the first year of the project. It
is estimated that two municipal and one oblast polyclinics, and 2 municipal and 3 oblast small specialist
hospitals could also possibly be closed and their activities merged with existing facilities by the end of
the project. Unit recurrent costs for transferred facilities would be standardized at the equivalent of
US$104/child/year for kindergartens, and US$624/staff/year for polyclinics. Details of these changes are
outlined in Table 3b.6.



ANNEX 3B                                                                         Page 60
Table 3b.6: Summary of Shymkent Social Assets Plan
Year I    Year 2      Year 3     Year 4       Year 5
A. Kindergartens
Transferred                       30         40         40          40          40
Municipal                         51         51         51          51          51
Total                             81         91         91          91          91
B. Polyclinics
Transferred                        2          2          4          4            4
Municipal                          9          7          7          7            7
Oblast                             5          4          4          4            4
Total                             16         13         15          15          15
C. Hospitals
Transferred                        0          0          0          0            0
Municipal                         15         14         13          13          13
Oblast                            12         10         10          10           9
Total                             27         24         23          23          22
E. Recurrent Costs: US$/year
Kindergarten (US$/Child)                       ------104--
Polyclinic (US$/staff)                            --      624----__ _
Hospital (US$/bed)                ---------- --- ----
17.          The investment and recurrent costs (including contingencies) resulting from these
measures for Shymkent are estimnated at US$13.9 million, of which US$9.5 million would be for
investments and US$4.4 million for recurrent costs. Details are summarized in Table 3b.7.
Table 3b.7: Sutmmary of Shymkent Costs
(US$'000)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4     Year 5       Total
Investments:
Kindergartens        638         674        683         224        230       2449
Health               1857       1962        1907        664        685       7075
Sub-Total           2495        2636       2590         888        915       9524
Recurrent Costs      680         896        919         942        966       4403
Total Costs           3175       3532        3509       1830        1881     13,927



Page 61                                                                           ANNEX 3B
18.           The implementation of the transfer and restructuring program would result in a small
budget surplus for the city of less than 1 % of projected fiscal revenues for the first two years, a break-
even in the third year and a negligible deficit of less than 1 % over the last two project years, taking into
account the cost recovery measures proposed under the project, as shown in Table 3b.8.
Table 3b.8: Sumnmary of Shymkent Cash Flow Projections
(US$'000)
Year I      Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year 5
Total Revenues             22092        22092        22092         22092        22092
Total Expenses             22193        22353        22568         22725        22851
Balance                      (101)        (261)       (476)         (633)        (759)
Cost Recovery                237          366          474           561          664
Surplus/(Deficit)             137          105          (2)          (72)         (95)
% Revenues                     0.6          0.5          0.0          (0.3)        (0.4)
19.          In addition to the assumptions shown in the table, the overall project common assumptions
have been used (Table 3b. 1). The Shymkent situation therefore appears manageable in the context of the
present tax sharing and transfer situation between the South Kazakhstan oblast and the central
government. Further, the average cost recovery rate over the life of the project is only about 8% of the
total relevant recurrent costs, rising from less than 5% in year 1 to about 13 % in year 5. City
administration officials are confident that this average is modest and could be increased.
(ii) Lenger
20.           Lenger has a population of 25,000. It is effectively a satellite town to Shymkent city.
Lenger's social assets consist of 2 enterprise and 11 municipal kindergartens; and 2 municipal hospitals.
These assets are summarized in Table 3b.9 below.
Table 3b.9 Lenger Social Assets
Facility                    Enterprise              Muriicipal               Total
Kindergartens                    2                      11                     13
Polyclinics                      0                      0                      0
Hospitals                        0                      2                      2
21.           During the first year of project implementation, the two enterprise-owned kindergartens
would be transferred to the local administration. Unit recurrent costs for transferred facilities would be
standardized at the equivalent of US$137/child/year for kindergartens. No facilities are expected to be
closed or merged.
22.           Total project costs (including contingencies) resulting from these measures for Lenger are
estimated at US$0.98 million, of which US$0.7 million would be for investments and US$0.28 million
for recurrent costs. Details are summarized in Table 3b. 10.



ANNEX 3B                                                                        Page 62
Table 3b.10: Summary Lenger Costs
(US$'000)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3      Year 4     Year 5      Total
Investments:
Kindergartens           86        88         90         29         30         323
Health                 132        88         91         35          35        381
Sub-Total Costs       218        176        181         64         65         704
Recurrent Costs        53         55         56         57         59         280
Total Costs           271       231         237        121        124         984
23.          The impact of added social assets on the budget of the city would be negligible. The
implementation of the transfer and restructuring program would result in a small budget surplus, almost
a break-even, of 1-2% of projected fiscal revenues for the city over the life of the project, taking into
account the cost recovery measures proposed under the project, as shown in Table 3b. 11.
Table 3b.11: Summary of Lenger Cash Flow Projections
(US$9'0O)
Year 1      Year2       Year 3        Year 4       YearS
Total Revenues              599        599          599           599          599
Total Expenses              607        614          627           638          645
Balance                      (8)       (15)          (28)         (39)         (46)
Cost Recovery                23         30           38            46           54
Surplus/(Deficit)            15         15            10            7            8
% of Revenues                 2.5        2.5          1.7           1.3          1.3
(iii) Kentau
24.          Kentau has a population of 66,000. Although it has several significant manufacturing
plants, the local economy is dominated by the Achpolymetall Combinat, which employs many people in
Kentau and Achisai, a mining town for which the municipality has administrative responsibility. In recent
years, the company has experienced financial difficulties, due to costly extraction techniques in the mines,
and the expenses of attempts to reorientate production. Kentau has 15 enterprise and 6 municipal
kindergartens, three municipal polyclinics, and 10 municipal hospitals. These assets are summarized in
Table 3b.12.



Page 63                                                                        ANNEX 3B
Table 3b.12: Kentau Social Assets
Facility                   Enterprise             Municipal                Total
Kindergartens                  15                     6                     21
Polyclinics                     0                     3                     3
Hospitals                       0                     10                    10
25.           During the first year of project implementation, seven enterprise-owned kindergartens are
expected to be transferred to the local administration. It is also proposed that at least 2 hospitals be
closed, privatized or merged over the life of the project. Unit recurrent costs for transferred facilities
would be standardized at the equivalent of US$137/child/year for kindergartens. Details of these changes
are sunmnarized in Table 3b. 13 below.
Table 3b.13: Summary of Kentau Social Assets Plan
Year 1    Year2       Year3       Year4        YearS
A. Kindergartens
Transferred                     7          8          8           8            8
Municipal                       6          6          6           6            6
Total                          13         14         14           14          14
B. Polyclinics
Transferred                    0          0          0            0           o
Municipal                      3          3          3            3           3
Total                          3          3          3            3           3
C. Hospitals
Transferred                     0         0          0            0           0
Municipal                      10         9          9            8           8
Total                          10         9          9            8           8
D. Recurrent costs: US$/year
Kindergarten (US$/child)         ------- ----           137-
Polyclinic (US$/staff)                                  -798-
Hospital (US$/bed)                ------                 870-
26.          Total project costs resulting from these measures for Kentau (including contingencies) are
estimated at US$4.1 million, of which US$2.5 million would be for investments and US$1.6 million for
recurrent costs. Details are summarized in Table 3b. 14.



ANNEX 3B                                                                             Page 64
Table 3b.14: Kentau Sununary Costs
(US$'000)
Year I     Year2       Year3       Year4       Year5          Total
Investmnents:
Kindergartens     108            110         113          39          40          410
Health            635            580         571         176         180         2142
Sub-Total         743            690         684         215         220         2552
Recurrent Costs   195            314         334         354         372         1569
Total Costs       938           1004        1018         569         592         4121
27.           The impact of added social assets on the budget of the city would be significant even
when the restructuring and cost-saving measures have been implemented. Taking into account the cost
recovery measures proposed under the project (Table 3b. 15), the implementation of the transfer and
restructuring program would result in a budget deficit for the city of over 16% over the life of the
project, rising from about slightly more than 2% in year 1 to 30% of total fiscal revenues in year 5.
Table 3b.15: Summary of Kentau Cash flow Projections
(US$'000)
Year 1        Year 2        Year3         Year 4        Year 5
Total Revenues            1480          1480           1480          1480          1480
Total Expenses            1566          1683           1853          1989          2091
Balance                    (86)         (203)          (373)         (509)         (611)
Cost Recovery               54            91            118           140           169
Surplus/(Deficit)           (33)        (112)         (255)          (369)         (442)
% Revenues                  (2.2)         (7.6)         (17.3)        (24.9)        (29.9)
28.           In addition to the assumptions shown in the table, the overall project common assumptions
have been used. This level of deficit is problematic for a one company town like Kentau, whose
economic base has been declining. Under the project, a special effort would be made to explore
possibilities for further reducing the relatively high number of social assets when compared to the total
population, and cutting unit costs, which are substantially higher than elsewhere. However, these
measures alone might not be enough to put Kentau on a sound financial footing.9 The possibility of
budgetary assistance from the central government should be explored, based on the fact that Kentau
reportedly had approved a direct subvention representing 44% of the planned 1994 fiscal revenues.
The economic situation in Kentau is unusually difficult to predict in the medium term. The Government has proposed major
investments in the area to offset declining local mining employment (e.g. the establishment of a cotton ginning plant).



Page 65                                                                         ANNEX 3B
Pavlodar Oblast
(i) Pavlodar City
29.           The two participating cities in Pavlodar oblast are Pavlodar City and Aksu. Overall,
Pavlodar oblast has significantly higher average per capita incomes than South Kazakhstan, indicated by
the low share of local tax revenues that are returned to the oblast. Pavlodar City is the seat of the oblast
administration and the largest city. It has a population of 350,000, and a large and diversified industrial
base, though some major industries (e.g. the tractor factory) have experienced increasing economic
hardship in recent years. Its social assets include 84 enterprise and 31 municipal kindergartens; 1
enterprise, 4 municipal and 4 oblast polyclinics; and 2 enterprise, 6 municipal and 8 oblast hospitals.
These assets are summarized in Table 3b. 16 below.
Table 3b.16: Pavlodar Social Assets
Facility                       Enterprise           Municipal         Oblast   Total
Kindergartens                      84                   31               -        115
Polyclinics                        1                    4                4          9
Hospitals                          2                    6                8         16
30.           During the first year of project implementation, 23 enterprise-owned kindergartens would
be transferred to the budget. A further 10 kindergartens would be transferred in year 2. The remaining
kindergartens would continue to be run by enterprises, or be closed or merged with others during the life
of the project. There is also scope for reduction in the total number of hospitals, and for the closure of
at least one polyclinic by the end of the project. Unit recurrent costs for transferred facilities would be
standardized at the equivalent of US$101/child/year for kindergartens; US$798/staff/year forpolyclinics;
and US$844/bed/year for the hospitals. Details of these changes are summarized in Table 3b. 17.



ANNEX 3B                                                                          Page 66
Table 3b.17: Summary of Pavlodar Social Assets Plan
Year I    Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year S
A. Kindergartens
Transferred                      23         33          33         33           33
Municipal                        31         30          30         30           30
Total                            54         63          63         63           63
B. Polyclinics
Transferred                       0          1          1           1            1
Municipal                         4          3          3           3           3
Oblast                            4          4          4           4           4
Total                             8          8          8           8           8
C. Hospitals
Transferred                       0           1          1           1           1
Municipal                         6           5          5           5           5
Oblast                            8           7          6           6           6
Total                            14         13          12         12           12
D. Recurrent costs: US$/year
Kindergarten (US$/child)           --------------------
Polyclinic (US$/staff)                 ------        ----789-------
Hospital (US$/bed)                 ----- ------------844-------_    -    __
31.          Total project costs (including contingencies) resulting from these measures for Pavlodar
are estimated at US$11.0 million, of which US$5.7 million would be for investments and US$5.3 million
for recurrent costs. Details are summarized in Table 3.18.
Table 3b.18: Pavlodar Summary Costs
(US$'000)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3      Year 4     Year S       Total
Investments:
Kindergartens           432       463        475         156        160        1686
Health                 1058       1081      1108        390         399       4036
Sub-Total              1490       1544      1583        546         559       5722
Recurrent costs         875       1063      1090       1118        1146       5292
Total costs            2365      2607       2673       1664        1705      11014
32.          The impact of added social assets on the budget of the city would be significant even
when the restructuring and cost-saving measures have been implemented. Taking into account the cost
recovery measures proposed under the project (Table 3b. 19), the implementation of the transfer and
restructuring program would result in a budget deficit of about 2% of projected fiscal revenues over the



Page 67                                                                        ANNEX 3B
life of the project. The first two years would be a break-even. Then there would be a deficit of a just
over 2% in year 3 rising to more than 4% in year 5.
Table 3b.19: Sununary of Pavlodar Cash Flow Projections
(US$'000)
Year I      Year 2      Year 3       Year 4        Year 5
Total Revenues            11740        11740       11740         11740         11740
Total Expenses            11873        12055       12319         12529         12687
Balance                     (133)       (315)       (579)         (789)         (947)
Cost Recovery                148         239         310           382           454
Surplus/(Deficit)             15         (76)       (269)         (407)         (493)
% Revenues                    0.1        (0.7)        (2.3)         (3.5)         (4.2)
33.          In addition to the assumptions shown in the table, the overall project common assumnptions
have been used. This level of deficit is manageable in view of the present tax sharing and transfer
situation between Pavlodar oblast and the central government. Further, the average cost recovery rate
is only about 8 % of the total relevant recurrent costs. City administration officials are confident that this
average is modest and could be increased.
0ii) Aksu
34.          Aksu has a population of 55,000. It is effectively a satellite city to Pavlodar City. Aksu's
social assets consist of 13 enterprise and 5 municipal kindergartens; 2 municipal polyclinics; and 3
municipal hospitals. These assets are summarized in Table 3b.20.
Table 3b.20: Aksu Social Assets.
FacdHty                       Enterprise            Municipal              Total
Kindergartens                     13                    5                    18
Polyclinics                        0                    2                    2
Hospitals                          0                    3                    3
35.          During the first year of project implementation, three enterprise-owned kindergartens are
expected to be transferred to the local administration. An additional three kindergartens are programmed
to be transferred in year two. The remaining kindergartens would either remain with enterprises or be
closed/merged. There is also scope to merge the functions of one of the city hospitals into those of one
other by the later years of the project.  Unit recurrent costs for transferred facilities would be
standardized at the equivalent of US$137/child/year for kindergartens. Details of these changes are
summarized in Table 3b.21.



ANNEX 3B                                                                        Page 68
Table 3b.21: Summary of Aksu Social Assets Plan
Year 1    Year2       Year3       Year 4      Year 5
A. Kinderartens
Transferred                    3          6           6           6           6
Municipal                      5          5           5           5           5
Total                          8          11         11          11          11
B. Polydinics
Transferred                    0          0           0           0           0
Municipal                      2          2           2           2           2
Total                          2          2           2           2           2
C. Hospitals
Transferred                    0          0           0           0           0
Municipal                      3          3           2           2           2
Total                          3          3           2           2           2
D. Recumrt costs: US$/year
Kindergarten (US$/child)                              137__-
Polyclinic (US$/staff)       -----------------------770------
Hospital (USS/bed)            ----            --       87 -
36.          Total project costs (including contingencies) resulting from these measures for Aksu are
estimated at US$1.8 million, of which US$0.9 rmillion would be for investments and US$0.9 million for
recurrent costs. Details are summarized in Table 3b.22.
Table 3b.22: Aksu Summary Costs
(US$'OOO)
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3   Year 4    Year 5    Total
Investmnents:
Kindergartens               73        83        75        27        27       285
Health                     201       169       174        44        45       633
Sub-Total                  274       252       249        71        72       918
Recurrent costs             95       186       190       195       200       866
Total costs                369       438       439       266       272      1784
37.          Taking into account the cost recovery measures proposed under the project (Table 3b.23),
the implementation of the transfer and restructuring program would result in a budget deficit for the city
of slightly below 1 % over the life of the project, rising from a break-even in years 1 and 2 to just below
2% of total fiscal revenues in year 5. This deficit level is manageable.



Page 69                                                                     ANNEX 3B
Table 3b.23: Aksu Summary Financial Flows
(US$'OOO)
Year I       Year2        Year3        Year4        Year 5
Total Revenues          2835         2835         2835          2835         2835
Total Expenses          2849         2888         2931          2966         2993
Balance                  (14)          (53)         (96)        (131)        (158)
Cost Recovery             32           58            77           95          113
Surplus/(Deficit)         18            5           (19)         (36)         (45)
% Revenues                 0.6          0.2         (0.7)          1.3         (1.6)



ANNEX 3B                                                                                Paoe 70
E. Detailed city rationalization plans
Explanatory Notes to Rationalization Tables
38.           During project preparation, detailed rationalization plans were prepared for each city, to
assess the short term financing requirements for social services, and longer term fiscal sustainability.
These are set out in the following pages. The following notes explain the format and content of the tables.
Column 1:
Type of asset: kindergartens, polyclinics and hospitals.
Column 2:
Previous running costs: the current (before divestiture and rationalization) operating costs of
enterprises and municipal-owned facilities.
Column 3:
Recurrent cost: the cost to local governments, after they have unified the unit costs of ex-
enterprise and original municipal facilities.
Column 4:
Recurrent costs after savings: recurrent costs (column 3) adjusted each year for the effects of
rationalization (for example, privatization, management improvements) in the previous year. This
level of costs is used as a departure point for estimates of recurrent costs under the project. The
starting level of project support for these costs is 90%, declining on a yearly basis (column 9);
local co-financing (column 10) increases correspondingly.
Column 5:
Investment costs: the cost of medical supplies such as medicines, drugs, bandages, and other
consumables; also learning materials (books and art/music supplies) and medical supplies in
kindergartens (for immunization and emergency care).
Column 6:
Rehabilitation: the costs of rehabilitating of premises.
Column 7:
Total: the total of columns 4, 5 and 6.



Pa pe 71                                                                       ANNEX 3B
Column 8:
Bank Projectfinancing - total: the share of the Bank's financing - x% of column 4 plus 100%
of columns 5 and 6.
Column 9:
Bank Projectfinancing- recurrent: financing of recurrent costs only, i.e. x% of positions of the
column 4, representing divested (ex-enterprise) facilities only.
Column 10:
Local financing - project: the balance of incremental funding to be provided by the local
government to help finance additional operating expenditures for the new, divested, facilities:
(1-x%) of those positions in column 4, representing divested facilities.
Column 11:
Local financing - total: total funds to be spent by local governments on operating costs of all
locally sustained public facilities. (columns 7 minus 8).
Column 12:
Fees and charges: cash inflows from fees and user charges.
Column 13:
Financing gap: the additional resources to be mobilized by each of the communities to ensure
sustainability of service delivery (columns 10 minus 12). The sources of financing gap could
include possible increases in collected taxes, introduction of new local taxes and charges, sales
of closed premises, leases of vacant lots, introduction of mandatory health insurance etc.
Column 14:
Additional revenues: projections of revenue increases, from a range of possible sources, including
raising of additional local revenues through commercial usage of the closed social facilities, and
commercial management of other properties.



Sh kmkent(22.02.95)
w -~~~
Thl scrwlo pakl  bfo dw woa0t  of d Andw    of dhbdW  bdll" to th F_ b                 u     4     oet  n ld by ftrwl s. _w
gSt ces, rspnfl_mofg    COO   hat_nw   ofotc bn                ouswn_
Ra _nlzd          fol  r8    ya,Zewr I nmlllbbngs)__
Amob xbWb)                 Pbus _ _n          Pem r nui coas of oel fa1ih                   Bi* pn nd cbig    Lood rdiwi            Fees &   Fhi.      CerLb Ig.
a_          recat  reo.av. |      h[w.    r l    t              t          ur0%        pd0%  to         dwges  gap   1i_o__
I                  2           3          4          5          6        7        S          9          10       11       12        13             14
K___g______       _20A_ 7t3                 259.40       295.2      6..0     24.07     59.2   35.7s        06.1 ,       5    24.92      3.2.
Kw4qb_  nm*p. fiX                  0.71     53.07        33.07      5.20     20.90    79.07    16.42          0.01     OMO    53.07      5.57i
Pdyptms. at-ad  (34                491       431          4.31     12.40      2.00   7.71 6194                3.81     0.40    8.40      0.116
P     ehkt  nwpi. (2) _19.33                 10.36       10,36      7.W0      6.X0    24.66    12.97      -   .0  _   .Ot1   10.36  -0.291
HOdh   . mmwr (1e4                14.20     13149       13249   23.40        19.50   139    14.10             0.00     0.00   13.49      3.0           ___
Gew_d _t_  (11230.                         43.34       47033       170        2      3S402 4_3  57ne.    1   60.11 671  410.23            3 246.0    -
Raddbonplan #r                  yew Ir ;soo                                      
A     _do Oubk)            Prw4_nm_ _         Pre ni wrw     om ofdsof d flc_               BW* I      ficqS       DXIIroc d        Fee &   Flm.    Cwt udg.
code oa a rc irert  ro.Miv.  hil              umhi.   ttal tobl recO. f1 bola                           dwU PP oec                                           >
K__w___ _-_ __ 1                4001.32    564.0151 43011   110.00    43.06   774.01611521                  525.61    5640 7 140    63.90    1
,                             .wlp,  1614:20   1061.32  10613     19100    13S.67  139099   329.67            0.00     0.00  10613P   115.6E 
Pyd=   -o. (4)                    98.22  S 6.11           KCIl     46l0O      13.33   147.45   13S.S3        77.50  S.61        L61      2.2013
Pdykm mmli*. (12)                3S6.58    207.17       207.17    216iO0     43.33   466.501  259.33          O.Ot     0.00   207.17     6.301                                           O
Hosai muNft   (14)              2E10.92   2769.73      2769.73    152.00    130DO0  3051.73   2E2.00          O.Ot     O.W  2769.73    56.91                                             ed
ndW letSd (112)         "        111f 47tlS341    470S34    717.OO    405S33  SM7  172S44                   603.11    67Al  410523  24s&a    -17739                    r1
Aef Cuf)         .      Pmwm   u                  -nnh   Pot SOONs fco            e        tSW_* Ft  1  wbv      oa bw           Fee &   Fln.       CnLtp4
_  comb         xcunen ffv .d Mas.    IhM* rdb              zd      WMa    mrm.75S         przss  WM        dM       9w
K hwpt .  -t  (41               4001.3S    M7."         763.11!   1465.671   106.67  1016.44   825.671      M733   190.781  190.781  100.37
KllrgWm mwu* .                   1614.20   1061.321    1040.09l   191.00    IA867  1369.76   329.671          0.00     0.0  1040.09   136.27
Padktm4K-t 4                      9L22      S6.11|       u4391     4S.00      1333   143.72   124.63|        63.29    21.10    21.10     4.34
P     ayWm nM*.(12)              396.521   207.171      203.021   216.00     4333   462361  2,59.33,-         0.00     0.001  203.02    12.44_
HoA, mwi*: (14)                 2200.92   2769.731    2714331   151.CJ0    130.00  299633   282.C00           0.00     0.00  72714N3   111.61
olWldl{122}  ~~~ ~sm"1            4M11AI        M4S       793A7    432.00  5991   122129|           6354    21117| 4169.32   36503   *fILIG
page 1



Shymkont(22.02.95)
_____                                      SW                             I_plan_ f or                                                                      __
AUatS (ubic)                ErLWuia            Pe sent    corts  sooW fucm            d        f*      h  Nn k pc    Locel lnmSj   Fees &   Fhi.         Cd9      .
endsCO_Q__    rcurt  rec.aft..v.  hwst            -l    oald  bb l        rW.4%          prm%                                sblu    dllon
I                   2          3           4          5         6         7        a           9.         10       1I       12        13             14
K h d!!pdU  Z Xzest 4           400o38    763.11        732.5S     146.67    106.67   98.92   5.3.00         329.65   40292   402.92   112.83 s
K     hd.rgsitmsts, mu(52)       1614.20   1040.09       998.49    191.00    13.67  1328.16   329.67           0.00     0.00   998.49   153.16
Pdyi*k UC4  (4)                    9.22      84.39        81.01     48.00      13.33   142.35    97.79        36.46    44.56    44.56      6.30
pOy*ftO  11!0P. (12)              3658    203.02         194.90    216.00     43.33   454.24   259.33          0.00     0.00   194.90    18.17
Hos, MuIcW. (14)                 28092   2714.33        2605.76    152.00    130.00  2837.76   282.00          0.00     0.00  2605.76    160.91
Grand tot (122)                   1901.29   44          4612.7     753.7    432.00  579142  155.L79          366.12   447.8  4246.63   45137        *3.89
RuaIzogpaif8l~ _cW       _w(SlO ____                     ___                                                                      ____
RadnBao pbn tor 8|ii    Yew;y4   '@@                      
Asses  tMc)Ear) unn                            N . Pren    f g oosts of socW fasifas ax* poled lor                     L  fin ncing    Fees &   fh.      CentIbdg.
costs bW     tc    t  roo.aft.sav.  invet.   mehabi.   total    totl      acurr.(M%)   pr.75%  todal      carges  p          ahlotarfi
1                   2          3           4          5          6        7        8           9 _        10       11       12       13              14
K'dwgwbm, ex--*. (40)            4001.38    732.58       703.28     96.00     26.67   325.95   298.49        175.82   527.46   527.46   120.21 _
K    hdrg.rans. murkip. (52)     1614.20    993.49      958.55     187.00      0.00  1143.55  17.00           0.00     0.00   958.55   16S33
PdyClnls, Osert (4)                98.22     60.76        58.33     32.00      0.00    90.33    46.58         14.58    43.75    43.75      5.95
Pos, murnuicp. (12)               386.58    179.91       172.71     96.00       0.00   268.71    96.00         0.00     0.00   172.71    17.66
HFpals. murcp. (14)              200.92   2405.31       2309.10    280.00       0.00  2589.10   230.00         0.00     0.00  2309.10   195.93
GrOd tobl (122)                  mL.29   4377.06        4201.98    691.00     26.67  4919.64   S08.07         19Q40   S71.21  4011.53   502.06     63.14       63.14
Ruiondlzeion plan for Shyn*ent year w(IJSS         ____                                       .             _
Aets (pubic)                Entr rnnin         Preset rnnin cods of social fachlw             ank projed finuning    Local fnandng    Fees &   Ftn.      Centbudg.
costs ____ _  recurrent  rec.atsav.  invest    ruhabl.  total    Idal       curr.(25%)   pr.75%  total    charges  gap        ocation
1  2       3          4           5         6         7        8          9          10       11       12        13              14
lGnduga,tens, ex.ewL (40)        4001.39    703.28       675.15     96.00      0.00   771.15   264.79        168.79   506.36   50636    130.17
Khde qtN   municlp.(52)          1614.20    958.55       920.21    1I7.00      0.00  1107.21   187.00          0.00     0.00   920.21   12.47 2
Pdyokuls exat (4)                  9S.22     58.33        56.00     32.00      0.0    8s.0       46.00         14.00    42.00    42.00     7.20 C
P)rclnc. mulclp.(1I _)            386.53    143.93       138.171    96.00      0.00   234.17    96.00          0.00     0.00   138.17   1.62
Hoeplt. murnkcp. (13)            2300.92   2309.10      2216.741   260.001     0.00  2476.74   260.001         0.00     0.00  2216.74   234.67 _
Orand tota (121)                 3901.29   4173.19      4006.261   671.001      0.00  4677M.2    3.791       13279   543.36  3323.48   573.13    -24.76
Page 2



Longer                                                                          >
:C
z
Thi  lio  prvides kg the uniMcaon of td rda of dvedted tcMm olebto t_ prun  bJeN.wld by fwth  etn
rafcmm  ratmondlzatien of _   COOK,          of sevks,   ne    of user Menm.
R         rAtL U bn plan orLne yew 1n . ' In      l )          _
Assets (pehlo)             Prevlflus    n         Presnd!5zw*LctP 01 s nm  rochi cls    a    pe01        Loud wnxanfing   Fes &   Fhgap  Budged
_____a________                         recurreetcred.afL.v.  kewid  ret abitW tl      t      reuwi        pr.10%  towal   chuges         ae     L
1  2       3          4         5       6       7       a         9        10      it       12       13         14
KMdw _,au. aent 34                           2.57        2.57    030     1.20    4.07    3.31       2.31    0.26    0.26      0.27
Khtdarguteau.muZnlxp. (6)         11.47      6.6         6.66   0.90    3.60   11.16    4.50        0.00    0.00    6.66      0.71
PdCs. mip. (1)                    27.03      2.53        2.53    0.60    0.50    3.63    1.10       0.00O  0.00    2.53       0.06
lIOSPb. mw~!P. (1)                 0.00     15.23       15.23    1.300    .50   13.53    3.30       0.00    0.00   15.231    0.32
Gruit _t  (11)                    4129      2&9         26.9    3.60    6,30   373t   12.71         2.31    0.26   24.67      1.36    -L10
RdlmmDzsakU pn-  for  yan ear I           J          __  
Anu_ p      )             Prousn Prm                    s g oads of soci hbles        Bank prledf         Locl    ci    Fees &   Fh         Budgd
cobod   Xmsmu  lmcatw.  bh9t. rw . toW    toal   ncmvr%   Pr1      WM    ciar                           _ _ oceL
1                  2           3          4         f       6       7       S        9         10      11      12       13         14
1 _argulen, s _ x-t. (3)          37.56     5133        5138   10.93    3.o   70.36   65.22        46.24    5.14    5.14     5.69
ngm_~ Mm unies        (a)       229.35    133.16       133.16   21.96   16.W  171.12   37.96        0.00    0.00  133.16    14.41
PdyCbtcs, 3Muac. (1)             541.01     50.59       50.59   L300     3.33   71.92   21.33       0.00    0.00   50.59     1.19
ap, mw          (1)                0.00    30450       304.50   50.00   10.00  364.50   60.00       0.00    0.00  304.50     6.59
Gr    total (11)                 837.92    539.A3      53W   100.94   37.33  677.90 1551           46.24    S14  49339    27.88   -22.75
Rihnkmm m pIa                                                            .      _r b   _.._-
_An   (pMc)               PrwvIOu Pntrw esanxb             coeof socid fuees        B9* pFoa ft           oclalrfinanin   Fes &   Fhn.gap  Budge
l    a         |recurnt  rsc.atsv.  kwat. |rhi. |bbl   bbl   re.75%   prM    tal   chas                           oc.
I                  2           3          4         5       6       7       a        9         10     11       12       13         14
Iidwgtls,n exmL (3)               87.56     5133        5035   10.9"1     OO   6933   56.74        37.76   12.59   12.59     6.70
n,       lm ,icp. (0)            229.35    133.16      130.30   21.96   16.00  16346   37.96        0.00    0.00  130.50    16.98 
W p,i**. MUF" (1)        |      f541.01    50.59       49.53   1.001   333   70.91   2133          0.00    0.00   49.53     2.34
HOaplAb, nuncop. (1)               0.00    304.50      293.43   50.00   10.00  353.41   60.00       0.00    0.00  293.41    12.94
rand ttll (11)                    67921   639A31       521.41 100.4    7.331 667.11  176.31        37.7    12    49107    35.%    -26371
NI



Lenger
Ads u (puc)               Previous              amenmisco           ch              B at    n           docl fc_iwo    Fanm      Fn      Budget
.   comb (tl    rewu  _ra c.aLav.  anL  r11    ld    Iml    rixw0.5%   pr.s% bolJd wa
I                  2          3           4        5       6       7       S        9        10      11      12       13         14
K hdw en    wt. (3)               3756      50.35       49.34   1098    3OO   6s.32   41.13       22-20   27.14  27.14     7.
Khd.g.tm  munlp. (6)             229.35    130.50      127.39   21.9    16.00  165.35   37.96      0.00    0.00  127.39    19.44
Pol         mui     (1)          541.01    49.53        4859   11800    3.33   69.92   21.33       0.00o  O.   43.59       3.4
Hao, miincidp. (1)                 0.00    29S.41      292.44   50.00   10.00  352.44   60.00      0.00    0.00  29244    19.05
dutotld I11)                       7.92    S2.4        513.26  110914  3733  6563   1603          222    27.1  496.06    49A2   -22A.4
RaiNztO    pn for L         ew a                                               _      _ 
Ast (puc)                 Previous  nm       P rel nm          cods of stc d fKCu     n*tc* projet   1 Lbchg LbW  clg   Feew &   Fio.gop  Budget
cN (tow   recLmmnt   eft.uav.   nvst  rehbl. tobl    oll   ru.259%   pr.75  tol  d              gs            shboat.
I                  2          3          4         5       6       7       8        9        10      I1      12       13         14
Kkawg.t_, ex-at. (3)              S7.56    4934         4335    6.00    0.00   54.35   13.09      12.09   36.27   36.27    3.22
Kindirguns, mumcp. (6)          22935    127.29        127.39   12.00    0.00  139.39   12.00      0.00   O.   127.39    21.42
Poh s  1       . (1)            541.01     43.59        43.59    3.00    0.00   56.59    8.00      0.00    0.00   4.59     4.21
HoepIs. mWucp. (1)                0.00    292.44       292.44   20.00    0.00    0.00   20.00      0.00    0.00  292.44    24.20
Grand 1tl (11)                   357.2    5sI3.        517.2?   46 .00  2o50.3   58o.             12.9o  36.2?  50813    S.4   -21.78
Retlonalaon plan for Ler yer 6         V)SS      _
Asest (pubic)             Previous  z        Prese uing cad    s of sodal facilh s  Bank p,        rnact dr Ld facinb   Fees &   Fl.gap  Budlet
casts tod)  rcurnt  reeaft.v.  hwes. rehabM. tod    total   recw.259%   pr.75% toeW    charges                alloct.
1                  2          3           4        5       6       7       3        9        10        1,    12       13         14
)Qd _g.lan,d e*. (3)             87.56     4135         4739    6.001   0.00   53.39   17.35      11.85   35.54   35.54    9.07
lOdegutae, munip. (6)           22935    127.39        12533   12.00    0.00  13733   12.00       o0.00    0.00  12533    23.64
p0ljcIkl. mam lp. (1)            541.01    48.59        47CI   3.0    0.00   55.61    3.00         0.00    0.00   47.61    5.16 
Ho,slaIs munbicp. (1)             0.00    292.44       23659   20.00    0.00   0.00   20.00        0.00    0.001 236.59    29.66
Grand total (113                 357.92    51.27n      506.93   4w.00 .o  24633   57.51           11.35   3534  4915.0    67.      31.ws
tow (III  W7.921   S17.27  5"93   46.00                                                                          >



Kentau (22.0293)                                                                                >
m
__________________________~________ _                                                                                                                                    h==-i
This stmirto povMi fo tIhm .uiUcdion of stuidars of dIWamd facuflet the prc..   ag  nosing,           M by thdnircturd          -  
h nr izi ofmauMsc        pdvaftdon of  m ,bcarnsusfe 1 1                                                    ___
alo"slizMn pn  r K            yar 1tw n                                                                                         -
Asseta (putb)              Prous un            PreNew  n*g cos ol woo faes             B   pl C; ct    Local *lwvg    Fees &   Fin             Cart bvd.
cods ()   reom*  rsec.Lv.  brwu    ehab. tdd               tob l    recw.GO%   pr.10%   tobl  dw ges  g            *P oaton
1                   2          3           4         5      6       7        a          9        10       11       12       13              14
Kinda rgutmmeutL (4)               35.42      2.55         5.00    0.73    0.53    6.27     5.77       4.50     0.50     0.50     0.54
Gidergutuw. num-icl.(a)             3.70      3.29        3.22    1.46    1.07    5.75     2.53        0.00    0.00     3.22     0.40
POics. nuuel. (3)                   7.35      2.53        2.48    2.70    0.50     5.68     3.20       0.00     0.00     2.48     0.08 .
Ho          e-lt (1)               14.12     23.71       23.23    2.50    0.50    26.23    23.91      20.91     2.32     2.32     0.49
Hopql mu..   codl. (5)             45.42     37.93       37.17   12.0   2IS0    5X17    15.00          0.00     0.00    37.17     0.7 _
Gnd total 1S 10                              70.1        71.01   I        6.10     M1      58.4       2&5.4I    2.      4.70      2.37     004
idloeazsdon pl, In  Kmw a, year 1JSfOl                                  -
Anssep nib.                Prlous                     nqilrS g   cstsoclaIBM*                        t     Load I            F#es &   Fin.     Crt bud.
coda (11)   moit  recAaSE          umt  reha     vd        th       eW cw9%   pr.10%   tod        -       gap      dacalim
1                   2          3          4         5       6       7        S         9         10        I1      12       13             14
mmbwdK l%_^se   (                 709.67    102.07      100.02   14.64   10.67   12533   11533        90.02    10.00    10.00    10.73
Kdrguns, ,mdc_  (a)                73.9s     65.76       64.44   29.23   2133   115.05    50.61        0.00     0.00    64.44    7.91 -
Po ekicas MW*l** (3)              147.05     50.59       49.58   54.00   10.00   113.58    64.00       0.00     0.00    49.53     1.53
Hosptl., at (1)                   282.49    474.15      464.67   50.00   10.00  524.67   47.20       41820    46.47    46.47     9.79
Hospids mmad. (5)                 903.40    75.64       743.47  250.0   50.0   1043.47   300.00        0.00     0.00   743.47    17.37   -
kan4   d kW    )                 2121.5    1451.20     1432L18  397.2  10.0   1920  100614            O4    913                 47-4       9.13        9.33
Rkmlm p fnau  yew                           _                           =                                                                _
Aail Oxub)                 Prvu nu             P       mnru g    of sod  fcli         Butlc*sc  Ka        Local nainu        Fan &   Fin.     Cwt bud.
cods(ltou)   rouarot   eAaLsv.   woyL    1itod            told      rwcu.75%   pr.zi  told          !      ap      aloCdion
1                   2          3          4         5       6       7        8         9         10     1 1        12       13             14
Kidwgwtw-g, suet (a)              709.67    204.68      196.49   29.28   2133   247.10   197.93      14737    49.12    49.12    2534
lbur.gms, huMciul. (a)             73.99     64.44       61.S7   29.28   2133   112.48    50.61        0.00    0.00    61.87     9.18
Pdy*.knu mauL  (31                147.05     49.53       47.59   54.00  .10.00   111.59    64.00       0.00    0.00    47.59     2.98
Hospt. omt (1)                    282.49    464.67      446.01   50.00   10.00   506.08   394.56     334.56   111.521  111.52    13.34
Ho        m    l (5)              90.40    464.67       446.08  250.001  50.001  746.0S   300.00       0.00    0.00F  446.03    2234
Grud kid(26                      2121.59   11633       1136.1   412.5   1126   17233   2307.15       48L93   168.64   71.13   7n.u        a116        81.4
ddI                                            43~ 1."  ITU            19073        4M 1  I ~ 711               ".9    ZIA
J~~~~



Keniau 202 93)
As  blic)                   Psois rn            P  e   rul Coda of s"c os                 OIN      Iuncq  Lod 1 moubnc         Fees &   Ft.      Ct bud.
co__  Q)      mmt  rec .sw.  kwst                .         O      b bld  m x     pru%    kWd       chgl  gap          acian
I                   2           3          4         5       6        7        I         9        10        11       12       13              14
Kkdw_tuM . WiL (a)                 709.67    196.49      12.63   29.21   21.33   239.24   135.49      341   103.75   103.75    2846
K_dwgmUm, nwnOc   (S)               73.99     6187         9.39   29M    21.33   i.0        5061        0.00     0.00    59.39    1036
pnJ,i"  i      ". (3)              147.03     47.59       45.69   54.00   10.00   109.0    64.00        0.00     0.00    45.69      436
Hospimis. ui.at (1)                282.49    446.01      428.24   50.00   10.00   481.     25171      192.71   235.53   235.53    27.19
H    espitals. nams~wrm. (5)       903.40    356.86      342.59  250.00   50.00   6415    300.00        0.00      .00   342.59    2.06 _
told 1 (26                 2X2121.5    1119       1064.4  412.6  112.6  15976   502M            277.   -339.28   739           4    240.1 13
RdIo.,mIldIaI peS        S K Yew                  I___
.Pw o                P#emmol Ifsocid Ca" 4 suncirg Local                                            Few d  F    d   Fi.  Cant bd.
coft oxbo  rect   rGc.d.v.  hwl              Iub   to        W      Ire25    pr.75%   told       cug.  gap 
1                   2           3          4         5       6        7        3         9         10   I 1          12       13           .14
KhdegUt       -at (8)              709.67    118.63      181.09   22.64   Io07   214.40    73.58       45.27   135.31   135.31    30.78 
IGldegat mus nlA   (a)              73.99     44.54       42.76   16.00    0.00    5.76    16.00        0.00     0.00    42.76      .12
PO dcc  nuo L 9                    147.05     45.69       4386   24.00    0.00    67.36    24.00        0.00     0.00    43.86     4.47
Hospc_ uat (1)                     252.49    428.24      411.11   20.00    0.00   431.11   122.73     102.73   308.33   308.33    33.69
Homgiab.mwd  ()                    908.40    256.94      246.66  100.00    0.00   346.66   1.0          0.00     0.00   246.66    23.73
Giul ol P1)                       21i25      964.5       925.4  124   10W6  111L379   341.3           148.S   4441    7774   161    343_35             34335
Ra!PlafiSon plan   m.yew 4USmi0) O),                              __ I                                       _ _              I
Ass_ OL"C)                  Ptesb  na          Pre     rwng c  sb of c  I    lkt s      Bart P    m mct inm g Locd rrw g       Fes &   Fhn       Ca L bud.
cobl tobld)  rmcwert  ectsav.  Iwed.  ehaL  tol             t ldb     wrMS %   pr 75%  itod        dc s   gap         abodion
1                   2           3          4         5       6       7        8         9         10   I  I1         12       13             14
K2tdghdnu uat (8)                  709.67    131.09      173.34   3.00    0.00   S114    51.46         43.46   130.33   130.33    32.01
KmIdgum. mftlclp  (5)               73.99     42.76       41.05   16.00    0.00    57.05    16.00       0.00     0.00    41.05     1.83
Polcsdm  MUMNL (3)                 147.05     43136       42.11   24.00    0.00    6.111   24.00        0.00     0.00    42.11,    5.41 .
Hospmb  .-Ut (1)                   232.49    411.11      394.66   20.00    0.00   414.66   1I8.67      98.67   296.00   296.00    40.471
Hospd. muicpd. (5)                 908.40    246.S       236.30  100.00    0.00   336s10  100.00_       0.00     0.00   236.30    28.631
Orad t_   2                       2121.5     92543       IS3A46  161.0    0.06  1056A46   310.13      142.13   423    74634   11546   310              31
1



Pavlodar(1203)
z
Tlm scomnuo piwkfs h VW urn dugmo of uIapArd of_Vmbd ftgj   to VW                                 by f                                                                               rix
rdafmis _iIbna n df tbe tunlcoits, ph10kUo dfmnc  Incets of ua has.                                                                     ___                ___w
Pavodwr. Ra1ondza p. Yew  I "b              e)       I           i                                     . 
Asmas (O Olc)                Pabu nmi   Prusent nni  hcas od soso :cl fes.  Bnki prq.fwc                              Loc co4Ikwnc.    Feen &   Fin.    Budget
_oittal)  rscuw.        iec.smv   hwetm.    ldwb.  lobl   total             ucur. 9%    proljO%   oaW    cdarges W            aucoL
1                   2            3           4            5         6        7        8          9         10       11       12        13              14
lhdmrgautanm, me x-ait(23~         67.96       1.71        I.71         4.21    3.07    2539    24.12         16.U4     1.57     1.37     2.0_
Khd.Mw   amaiIc.(32)               62.27        25.94       25.94         5.81    4.27    36.06    10.12         0.00     0.00    25.94      2.S9
Poep c  o Lt(4)                     15.66       12.31        12.31        3.60    0.67    16.57    15.34       1l.08       1.23     1.23    0.28
Pdlydi. wwnlclp.() "30.8                        43.53       43.53         5.40    1.00    49.93     6.40         0.00     0.00    43.53     0.92                       .
h    a C4tL (4)                    3539          3.27         3.27       10.00    2.00    20.27    19.44         7.44     0.83     0.33     0.27
Ho nuuNc4()                       369.03        37.26       37.26        20.00    4.00    61.26    240.00                 0.00    3726      0.95
Told (77)                        151.19        146.0       146.03        49.07   IS00   210        943          35.3      3.93   1 I06     739      -3J.4
. R        _i n ia . Yw  (US $100)
t_ (pec)              PialotiP run  Praat ming cobat  of soc ial   os -X-                    PML Loba co-Ib nuA             .    Fes &   Firan.
comb~           ricur. t_cALsav   bweur.    ruhal.  toW           jtoal     rcur.%    pr10%  totd          d e   gap              L
1                   2           3            4            5         6        7       8          9          10       11       12       13_             14
Klndmgwt_  oRM(2M5)              1359.28       3743        36.74         84.18   6133   512.25   475.57        330.06    36.67    36.67    40.3t
Ktmdwgutmn mw*.()                1245.30       51t.34      508.46       117.12   U3.33   710.91   202.45         0.00     0.00   50S3.     56.701
PoIilc. a-at(4)                   313.29       246.17      24134         72.00   1333   3267   302.45          217.12    24.12    24.12     54
POWLy  muNI8.                     617.53       370.62      853.21       108.00   20.00   981.21   12800          0.00    000   S53.21    1314
Hatm;   mt  (4L                   707.70       165.42      162.12       200.00   40.00   402.12   385.90       145.90    16.21    16.21     53.24        _
H  p    dd    3                  tQ7380.63     745.5       73035        400.00   S000  121035   480.00          0.00     0.00   730.35    1361
Tot  p7)                        1123.73       2920.52     2S6211        5130  2999   4143.4   197438           693.09    77.01  2169.02   14S172   -611
Pavlodw. RiIpz           H   YaGw2(US               I                                                                                           I _  -   -
Ae_i (pbilM)                Pmlmj rUn  P lst rUITI   cosd4 of sOcialp h               .        B"f8ku  n             Local tXFI nl.    Foe &   Fkrn        lg
_   cods-    Tw.        IoC.AUV   kwmitmL          1                                             kbl  WI recu.75%  P   tka  chages  W   ulocIL
1                   2           3            4           5          6       7        a          9          10     1 1        12       13              14
K          hd.rd1 .gaaui         1359.28       53633       515.45       120.73   88.00   724.23   595.37       336.59   123.6   128.6    69.10    -
MQK1 *ncg.(3                     124530        50346       4S8.12       117.12   8533   69057   202.45          0.00      0.00   48812    65.60
P     e4v*dcm n.t ( 4)            313.29       24t.24      231.59        72.0    1333   316.92   259.03        173.70    57.90    57.90    10.70
Pow  i,a   .(G)                   617.53       353.21      819.08       8LOO   20.00   947.03   120OO            0.00     0.00   819M0    34392
HospIdfwet (4)                    707.70       162.12      155.63       200.00   40.00   395.63   356.72       116.72    3891    38.91    1023    -
H qlwumrftA                      7330.63       639.05      613.49       400.00   S0.00  1093.49   480.00         0.00     0.00   61349    32.54
Tol (3n                         1123.73       2941.I0      223.37      1017X0  32i6  467a.8  2021.S7           677A11   225.71 2146    223.09         2.57        2.57



Palodar(1203)
(pahic)               P,u~4ow IUi  Pussial nmu*lr  caldsWonsociaw halEs.                 Bank poldunekag     Loca col            Fos a   Ftw        &m
__________                m~coKob      rctUTr.  mc.sttay    b1wsnL     rdib~   M        totd    fma.45%    pmm    WAl           dwssgP             a
1                   2            3           4            5         6        7        2          9         t0o  -            12        13             14
lwlagulans,ac.a*M                133923        515.45      494.33       1273   3.00   703.61   431.45          222      27216   272.16    77.73
K       Iw M m Murlicp.(M)       124530        4S3.12      46a60        117.12   35.33   671.05   202.45         0.00     0.00   468.60    73.80 _
Pdlei ds uK-uut(4)                313.29       231.59      22233         72.00   1333   307.6   125I32_    100.05   122.23   122.22    15.50
Pid. mup.{                        617.53       219.08      72631        102.0    20.00   91431   122.00          0.00     0.00   72631    50.42
Hosp    St. (4)                   707.70       155.63       149.41      200.A    40.001  339.41   307.23        67.23    2217    3217    14.96
HI      iodlp.(5)                7320.63       525.S5      504.32       400.00   30.00   984.22  420.00          0.00     0.00   504.22    42.29   _                   .
Told p7                         1la373        273S.72     262630       1017.9   32I6.6   397tUI  1734.         319.96   47.1  223634   274.71    201-91         201.91
P&vlods. Rldlkoizat   p   Ye4wI4     $ )             I
Ainis Oxh5c)                Pmilmm nm P11-rp    nngV coas of ardldd bhal_O .   -          _    Bu* pb              _t.Localoo4llC      Few       Fk  .
Codoti)         r        recataw    hwalmr.               told   h lwd      mw     %    pnlg.75  told      __W___  gap        alacut.
1                   2           3            4            5         6        7        8         9          10       11       12       13              14
KGMdglr_u  e4t33)                1359.1        494.23      475.04       101C0   26.66   60430   243.02        1I2.76   356.28   356.22    84.21            _
Khdsran MWm*.(32)                1245.30       46bl60      449.25        64.00    0.00   513JI    64.00          0.00     0.00   449.25    77.10
Poll,l*, .ceat(4)                 313          222.33      213.44        32.00    0.00   245M      25.36        53.36   160.08   160.02    I2.36
Pow  nmLp-(O)                     617.53       726.31      754.26        42.00    0.00   202.6    4.001          0.00     0.00   754.26    62.31
Hosp. d mawt (4)                  707.70       149.41      143.43           0.00    0.00   223.43   115.36      35.26   107.57   107.57    14.67
H_PIN wmttp.   )                 7380.63       420.68      403.35       160.00    0.00   563.25   160.00        0.00      0.00   403.25    33.71
Tlde 437)                       11623.73      2542.16     3440.47       43660   2666  2M73   721.24           207.92   62393  2232.50   29536    323.7          328.7
PrAodi. Rdonlzdon             Yr 6US  $000)           _           _                                      _            _
AMs (psc)                   Piwau  nm   Preent nnn   cts o sof ld ai         l-               8    _  _ noS g       Lwal co4lkw_.    Fes &   Fhan.    Budget
__D   e_ _     unaw.     roatasyw   kwfdnL        mhb.  WJd   told          ucurZ       p 9% r5   to_ chrgs  Q9                oca
1                   2           3            4           5          6        7        2         9          10       1I       12       13              14
_&d.w* sns,m                     1359.22       475.04      456.04       66.00    0.00   522.04   180.01        114.01   342.03   342.03    2803 _
In2d .tsn Muni-CM)               1245.30       449.85      431.36       64.00    0.00   495.36    ".00          0.00     0.00   431.26    83.49
Paycis, ama(4)                    313.29       213.44      204.90       32.00    0.00   23690    3.23          51.23   153.68   153.63    22.09
PoW   nmkp.(G)                    617.53       754.86      724.67        420O0    0.00   772.67    48.00        0.00     0.00   724.67    74.87
Hopld _mst (4)                    707.70       143.43      137.69       i3.0      0.00   217.69   114.42       34.42   103.27   103.27    17.77    _
HopI msualci.p)                  7330.63       403.85      337.70       160.00    0.00   547.70   160.00        0.00     0.00   317.70    477
Told (37)                       11623.73      2440.47     2342S5        452.2    L.00  2792.5   _6494          1994       .7  2143.2    33.0  26595             26



AksuC202.95)
TM           p  vnor X_                                                  dow  toe VrW                                             _                                                       n ul= 
Tssmm raacwsmlm s brm of      iClO n  f aim6   of  dvms   bum      0uhss  U.pemibag   om,floed Ol    tuosd__
R    _zdim pd. f 11ewm,    _io              tmd        I                                      -                __ _ _                                    -
Assb  anift)               Piwum nm                -      nP t         at! hs da   Pal              Bwipiclig    Locdb l bmi=                Feew &   Fin    CAM
Comb_____               ci.M     ,o.L .  hWaS              veiL.    k         abl        rcur.O%    pr.10%   t1_                        dac.
1                     2             3           4            5          6         7 3                  9          10 I7            12       13        14
Kod.gmm.at. 0)                          9.6        4.16        4.16         030        12      561        S.2          3.75     0.42    1.04     0.43
K         h_rgs1.is nu"*                39        4.56         4.6          0.50       2.00    706        2.50         0.00     0.00    4.56     0.43
Pda4lrlm el-W! m(1)                     6.0       0.46         0.46         0.60       0.5     L56        2.52         0.42     0.05    0.12     0.02         ___
P     eycs mu*FL (1)                    3.24       131          131        0Q60        0.50    24         1.10        0.00      0.00    131      0.03   _
HoI      muU*_  (1)                    73M        27.62       27.62         1I0 1.50   30X 2              330          0.00     0.00   27.62     0.37   =
dbt.ii loW11)             tES11                 3632         3.12          3.3    _          47.a1     13.6          416   346                  13   47__
R _1mupan for yw1Ufs_ _ - _b_
As_ p )             _       raimInaWhig            P                S                                                        ad rdoekhic:   Fees &   Fhi.    Cair.budg.
oossaiwi rmodtmv.   hbweL                          _ .11    bcUUN  l maswEO%  i0%  II           !        l      dId
1                     2             3          4                        6        7               I     9         10       11       12      13         14
idwguf. _      4.                     192.04     3330          1           10.S        3o00  IO0i0      92.45        73.47      316    6.16       .71
dmrum, a    05)                       167.34     91.24        39.42        It30       1333  121.05      31.63         0.00     0.00   t9.42      9.36
pt     e,                             13()  33.32  9.24        9.068 I20              333   30.39       29.48         3.1      0.91 "  091       0.36
PoNVWa. mudp. p)                      64.77      26.23        25.66        IL00       333   46.99       2133          0.00     0.00   25.66    Q0.09
Hotp"Kl.. msmI  (1)                  147339     552.45       541.40        50.00      20.00  601.40     60.00         0.00     0.00  541.40     1133 
Gmd totl (11)                        2031.7     762.4        747.16        152       3a.0  90644       23430         31.2      9.07  6__54    30.95  -21.  __
Rmloztn ph for  ,ye2FOO)                               _            _            _                         -                  -
b         Oxt)             PrnIu mnr               Pros 'iam      eos ofmodal bc_me          -    BUptq0            b      Local Wh         Fe" &   Fin.    Cr*.btdg.
cod (hmtml        cur      reo .v.  kwt                       Ito"l    toal       rww75.   pr%   NW             chow-es  qp    uloct
I                     2             3          4            5           6        7                    9          10       11      12       13        14
Khiduafl.( o         (6)              763.16    163.26       156.73        21.96      16.00  194.69    155.51       117.55    39.13   39.131   20.13   =
MKd     _ (m%,N. mw*5x (5)            167.4     1$9.42        3534         11.30      13.33  117.47     31.63         0.00     0.00   854    11.40           _ _II.U
polyb-, ucet (1)                      133.32      9.06         3.69        13.00      3.33   30.        27.55         6.52     2.17    2.17      0.71
PbcWfcst. Mc. (1)                      64.77     25.66        24.631       I.00o       333   4596       21.331        0.00     0.00   24.63      1335
Hospdh ,niu*    (1)                  1473.39    541.40       519.74        50.001     10.00  579.74     60.00         0.00     0.00  519.74    21.79
rmid  tWl (M)                        20739       23.L79      796.64       126.26      46.3  967.901   26331         124.07    4136  671.57      S537  -14.01



Nmu~~95)
_br_nzo  .plm                                                                                             _ Ak_YGS30U8OO
As:  e)             Prs  0nnwi              PArShnfit  odb d        o r aih                B1*       t b          Load flnma1    Few &   Fh.    C
code ___  cods   mmmu    rdLsv.  hwst                 I-    Ib"  b d             mow.45       p,%    fol  P        gP     p    mo
I                    2             3           4           5           6        7        s 1         9         10       11       12      13         14
I_idmrm. ais          (a)            768.16     156.73      150.46        21.       16.00 113.42      10SA7        67.71    3275   1275    22.60
Mrhubqn mma*ip.M)                    167.34      35.84       32.41        130       1333  114.04      31.3          0.       0.00  150.46    12.32
pdcs. 41t (1)                        133.12       L69         335         1l30       3.33   29.M      25.09         3.76     459    4.59       1.04
paIcl*s.n mkmwI (1)                   64.77      24.63       23.64        100        333   44.9        2133         0.00     0.00   23.64      1.96 
HospI, MU*% (1)                    1473.39     519.74      498.96        50.00     10.00  55396       60.00        0.00     0.00  49.96    31.44
Oram  tobd (14                      20739       79_4        733          1.2        46.   3fi7       243.72       714     3734  766.        0.6   17.49         17.49
RdIonlll pb  for AIU  , pu4tW )___
Assets (ubk)              P   zMN ul              P senr t nimg od of sodd bclss                 Dhu* :_e  rukwIb        Load ft          Fees &   Fh.    Ce*.bug.
come____                   r sc.alLa.  t Lrwuh.    to                 laid       rm25%          pr 75%   W     chwes            a oed
.1                   2             3           4                       6        7        3           9         10        1       12      13        14
mn*wod bmgalidis,at (a)              763.16     150.46      144.44        17.16      3.00  169.60     61.27        36.11   301.33  303.33    24.41
_gmtsn   nua*lp. (5)                 167.34     52.41        79.11        10.00      0.00   39.11      10.00        0.00     0.00   79.11    13.46
P     d'elo s.i.t (1)                133.12       335         303         3.00       0.00   16.01      10.00        2.00     6.01    6.01      0.96
PO*s. mwd*l (1)                      64.77      23.64       22.70         LO       0.00   30.70       3.00        0.00     0.00   22.70      2.14
HOp d, nW*  (1)                     147339      498.96      479.00       20.00       0.00  499.00      20.00        0.00     0.00  479.00    39.12
Grao                                24079       743A.       733.26       43.16        LOD  10.2       109.27       311   12434  69615          0.1d6   3413       34.1
Radonabmloa   plan for Ak.a.       S$V  _)
Asu_       )              Pretelow   nu*i         Pt  namoi cos od sof al b add   Ilb S     -    Bar*c I rC  thfmnn      Locd t n0        Fe  &   Fi.        .      .
OD"a_                  r rWlt  r is.av      . khaL bd .    od          al        rmff25%    pr.75%   toa    carge   gap    socet
I                    2             3           4           5           6        7        a           9         10       11       12      13        14
n              =Mt(6                 76.16      144.44      141.55        17.16      0.00  153.71     52.55        35.39   106.16  127.40    27.02
KhGdat   pis. nuip. (5)              167.34     79.11        77.53        10.00      0.00   87.53      10.00        0.00     0.00   77.53    14.36
Pd ycbil     at 1)                   133.12       303         7.35        3.00       0.00   15.35      9.96         1.96     5.19   7.07       1.19 
PdcI   Ar  Mmlc-J.(1)                 64.77     2170         22.25        3O.        0.00   30.25       Lo0         0.00     0.00   22.       2.
Hosphs MwUM        (1)              1473.39    479.0        469.42       20.00       0.00  489.42     20.0          0.00     0.00  469.42    47.94
Wand blat (14)            ~~207.99    733.26       713.6        41           .0717           0.1          3.301.67.5                9        34           34



KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 3C. MONITORING AND EVALUATION OF SOCIAL SERVICES
1.           Project implementation would take place in an experimental setting with many unknown
factors including the administrative capacity of the cities. It is therefore advisable to provide a simple but
effective system for monitoring and evaluation so that progress and the effective utilization of project
resources can be properly followed and when problems are identified, measures can be put in place to
rectify the situation.
2.           The design of the monitoring and evaluation system to be used by the project would be
done by the technical assistance team in close association with the oblast and city administration officials.
A. Monitoring
3.           Monitoring would be carried out in four main areas: (i) the procurement and physical
delivery of goods; (ii) the physical implementation of project activities; (iii) the financial management and
control of project funds; and (iv) the institutional development under the project. A continuous
assessment of these activities would be carried out under the context of the implementation schedule and,
more specifically, the annual work programs.
4.           The monitoring function would use the project's Management Information System (MIS)
to be designed by the technical assistance team with the active participation of the implementation
agencies (oblasts and cities) and more specifically the Component Coordinators. The terms of referene
of the financial management and accounting experts include helping design the MIS by first malin a
thorough diagnostic of the existing budgetary and management systems of the cities and then makin
concrete recommendations on ways to adapt and supplement them.
5.     .     On the basis of the objectives and the implementation parameters included in the Ammal
Work Programs (AWP) and Budgets, the project would be monitored through well defined Performance
Monitoring Indicators (Annex 7) indicators that will be included in the quarterly and annual report to
be submitted to the oblast administrations, the PCU, the central Government and the Bank.  These
indicators are consistent with the references defined in the Project Implementation Schedule (Annex 9).
The following key indicators would be monitored:
(a)    Asset transfer
Number of assets or facilities transferred by nature and location
(b)    Restructuring
By nature of asset:
previous unit operating cost
new unit operating cost
previous number of assets



Pare 83                                                                              ANNEX 3C
-      current number of assets
-      criteria used for the closing or amalgamation of assets
(c)    Physical rehabilitation
By nature of asset or facility:
-      number of assets to be rehabilitated
-      actual assets rehabilitated
-      projected unit rehabilitation cost
-      actual unit rehabilitation cost
(d)    Equipment investment
By nature of asset or facility:
-      investment cost per unit: planned vs actual
(e)    Supplies
By nature of assets:
-      cost per unit: planned vs. actual
(f)    Recurrent costs
By nature of asset:
Previous recurrent cost per unit
actual vs. planned unit cost
(g)    Cost recovery
By nature of asset:
-      planned cost recovery per unit
-      actual cost recovery per unit
-      planned cost recovery as % of recurrent costs
-      actual cost recovery as % of recurrent costs
(h)    Management efficiency
overall unit cost reduction
number of users served per unit
production of budgets and quarterly reports in timely fashion



ANNEX 3C                                                                           Pane 84
(i)    Social indicators
-      number of users before project per facility
-      number of users per unit during project
-     total number of users served before project
-     total number of users currently served
(j)    Financial indicators
-     unit costs: planned vs. actual for
-     rehabilitation
-      equipment
-      supplies
-      child
-     hospital
-     policlinic
-     total rehabilitation costs: planned vs. actual
-      total equipment costs: planned vs actual
-      total supplies costs: planned vs actual
-      total incremental recurrent costs: planned vs actual
-      disbursements: planned vs. actual
B. Evaluation
6.            The relevance, performance, effectiveness, efficiency and impact of the project activities
within its stated objectives would be periodically evaluated using the monitoring data. The main purpose
of these evaluations would be to draw lessons from the experience gained and to adjust project design and
implementation accordingly.
7.           In addition to the normal on-going evaluation that is normally done in development
projects, the periodicity of other evaluation would be tailored to the special circumstances of both the
project and Kazakhstan. The first evaluation would take place six months after the start of effective
project implementation; the second one after one year; the third would be the mid-term evaluation and
the final would be ex-post.
C. Structure
8.           The data required for project monitoring would be gathered and processed by the
municipal financial and budgetary service staff with the assistance of the financial management and
accounting experts financed by the project in close association with the city CCs. There would be no
need therefore to create a special monitoring unit for the project. The evaluation function would be
carried out by the oblast CCs and the PCU.






KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 3D. FLOW OF FUNDS FROM CENTRAL TO LOCAL BUDGETS
A. Existing Budgetary System
1.           The current budgetary and financial management system still retains many features of the
FSU system. Typically, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) requests from the oblasts proposals for the
coming year budgets in terms of expenditures and possible revenue generation. Based on these proposals,
the MOF allocates a budget to the oblast with broad guidelines on the allocation between different
expenditure categories. The oblast council then meets to determine the final make-up of the budget
among different categories within the ceiling assigned to them by the MOF. The final budget submitted
to and approved by Parliament has a budget entry only for the oblasts, not the cities.
2.           The oblast, like the MOF, allocates a budget amount to the cities or raions based on
proposals received from them. The city and raion councils, in turn, decide on how to allocate the funds
assigned to them between the different activities of their administration.
3.           A major aspect of the procedures briefly defined above is that both the cities and the
oblasts are not consulted on when the final decision is taken to allocate the budget amount to them. It
is therefore basically a top down approach. Another important feature is that most of the taxes used to
fund the budget are controlled by the central government which also decides each year the revenue or tax
sharing rate between the central government and the oblasts. The oblasts in turn determine the level of
tax sharing for the cities and raions. A third feature is the apparent lack of adequate coordination
between the process of establishing tax sharing rates on the one hand and the establishment and approval
of expenditures on the other at the oblast and city level. A final characteristic of the current system is
that the oblast is the focal point of budgetary and financial management at the regional level. The cities
have no direct relationship with the MOF and depend entirely on the oblast administration.
4.            Kazakhstan's budgetary and financial reporting mechanisms are not yet well known but
appear to be deficient in many ways. This is due in part to the delays in approving the budget and to
high inflation levels which require repeated budget revisions during the year. The 1994 budget for
instance was revised at least nine times and was only approved by Parliament in December 1994. Budget
reports for 1993 were not available at the end of November; it is therefore difficult to assess the budget
figures provided, a key element in determining how reliable and effective the funds flow mechanisms are.
B. Municipal Budgets
5.           The following table provides the 1994 budgets of the five cities under the project.
Miscellaneous revenues indicate non-recurrent taxes, fees or rates collected by the city. They are
unpredictable and change in nature from year to year. The figures otherwise show that the bulk of the
city revenues are from taxes controlled by the central government which are subsequently shared with
the cities on the basis of a tax-sharing rate set up each year. For most of the cities, these taxes represent
more than 70% of their revenues.



Page 86                                                                   ANNEX 3D
City Budgets
1994
Shymkent        Lenger     Kentau    Pavlodar       Aksu
Revenues
Local taxes                   0.55          0.34        1.19       0.86        1.49
Miscellaneous                50.94          4.10        3.82      31.36      26.52
51.49         4.44        5.01      32.22       28.01
Other Revenues *
Income Tax                    7.69         18.03      21.28       18.16        8.18
Land Tax/Rent                 0.00          0.00       0.00        0.06       0.22
Excise Tax                    5.25          0.00       0.00        2.04       3.51
Profit Tax                    3.52         21.88      45.62       10.81       11.85
Value Added Tax              32.05         55.65      28.09       36.70      48.23
48.51        95.56       94.99      67.78       71.99
Total                         100.00       100.00      100.00     100.00      100.00
Expenditures
Productive Sector            54.14         10.59       12.64      38.58      27.22
Social Sector                44.17         81.89      82.73       58.79      70.37
Administration                1.69          7.52       4.63        2.63       2.41
Total                         100.00       100.00      100.00     100.00      100.00
* % Tax Sharing Rate          20.06        100.00       55.90       7.70        8.43
% Profit Tax Sharing          4.00        100.00      45.17        2.40       2.70
6.           The tax sharing rate is determined each year at the time the budget is being prepared and
voted by Parliament. It refers to the oblasts, not the cities. The oblast in turn sets the rates for the cities
within its territory. Once the rates have been adopted, the taxes to which they apply are collected locally
and deposited in a local bank account. Subsequently, a computation is done regularly on the amounts
collected that have to be transferred to the central budget and those that are to be kept at the oblast level
based on the tax sharing rates adopted. The same scenario is carried out between the oblasts and the
cities.



ANNEX 3D                                                                          Page 87
C. Municipal Payment System
7.           Each city manages its own payment system. A city budget department accounts for all
receipts and manages all transfers for city goods and services. The budget department is required to keep
with the local branch of the National Bank (NBK) separate accounts for each major category of
expenditure. Below the city budget department are district budget offices whose numbers vary between
one and at least three depending of the size of the city. Each district office has two accounts with NBK
for each kindergarten: one for the transfers from the city and one for the payments made by parents.
Transfers from the city to the district accounts are made each month according to the budget estimates
made for the year on the basis of costs per kindergarten. These costs are based on the standard costs per
child.
8.           Payment for goods and services is effected as follows:
(a)    orders are placed for goods and services by the unit that needs them (either the
kindergarten or health facility);
(b)    after the service is provided or the goods are delivered, the invoices are approved and
certified;
(c)   the schools send their invoices for payment to the district budget office and the hospitals
directly to the city budget office; and
(d)    after verification for conformity, the district budget office orders a transfer to the
accounts of the suppliers while the city budget office orders a transfer of funds to the
account of the hospital.
D. Proposed Funds Flow Mechanisms
9.           Activities or items financed by the Bank would be paid in accordance with Bank
disbursement procedures utilizing the Special Account mechanism.
Special Accounts
10.          The difficult financial and budgetary situation of the Republic of Kazakhstan justifies the
need to ensure an adequate flow of foreign and local currency funds for the financing of the Bank's share
of eligible expenditures with a minimum of administrative delay. To that effect, provisions for advance
disbursements would be put in place as described below.
11.          To facilitate disbursements under the proposed loan, a Special Account (SA) has been
established in the National Bank of Kazakhstan in Almaty by the Ministry of Finance to cover the Bank's
share of eligible expenses in both local and foreign currencies. The PCU will be responsible for the
management of the SA. Project accounts will be opened at the NBK branches in Shymkent and Pavlodar
City, where the administration of project activities would be concentrated. Advances from the SA
equivalent to 90 day projected expenditures would be deposited in these branches to cover only the local
eligible Bank financed expenditures of the project. In deciding to employ the use of advances from the
SA, the following considerations would have to be taken into account:
(a)    as the implementing agencies will be scattered across the country, the location of the SA
in Almaty may create logistical problems for the smooth transfer of funds;



Page 88                                                                        ANNEX 3D
(b)   the borrower is unable to provide adequate working capital to project entities to
prefinance the Bank's share of expenditures; and
(c)   the borrower has the needed authority to enforce accounting controls over the advances
as well as the administrative capacity to manage the financial aspects of the project. This
capacity will be reinforced through the provision of technical assistance.
12.          The SA has been established and held in US dollars. The funds advanced to the project
accounts from the SA will be in local currency for the following reasons:
(a)    although the currency of the Republic of Kazakhstan is fully convertible, it is not a stable
currency and there is a significant foreign exchange risk;
(b)    advances into the project accounts will be exclusively for local expenditures;
(c)    NBK can provide daily, weekly or monthly statements.
13.          At the request of the Borrower, after Loan effectiveness, an amount equivalent to three
months of the Bank's share of the financing of eligible expenditures, mainly incremental recurrent costs,
would be deposited into the SA. Transfers in the local currency from the SA to the project accounts in
the oblasts would be made on the basis of approved estimated local expenditures for a 90 day period.
Project Accounts (PA)
14.          Simple local currency PAs would be opened at the city/district/MOL levels with 90 day
advance funds provided from the SA, thorough the 90-day accounts to be opened in each of the two
participating oblasts. These 90 day advance deposits would be made only upon presentation of a
statement of estimated amounts due based on current invoices and/or contractual provisions.
15.          Disbursements from the SA for the advances would be supported by a 90 day statement
of estimated expenditures. Replenishment of the SA would be supported by an SOE for those
expenditures agreed by the Bank or summary sheets for fully documented expenditures. Supervision
missions would inspect documentation retained by the borrower in the field. If ineligible expenditures,
including those not justified by the evidence furnished, or for amounts in excess of agreed disbursement
percentages, are financed from the SA, the Bank has the right to withhold further deposits into the SA.
The Bank may exercise this right until the borrower has: (a) refunded the amounts involved, or (b) (if
the Bank agrees) submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures that the Bank can use to offset the
ineligible amounts.
16.          After funds have been withdrawn from the SA, replenishment applications can be
submitted to the Bank at monthly intervals. Replenishments are requested by submitting Form 1903 with
the SOE and a statement of the SA from NBK, along with a reconciliation statement of the SA.
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
17.          For this loan, the Bank has agreed to accept SOEs for expenditures relating to all
incremental recurrent costs, expenditures under contracts for goods valued at less than $300,000
equivalent and expenditures under contracts for works valued at less than $100,000 equivalent.
Withdrawal applications, supported by SOEs, would be certified by the PCU and acceptable to the Bank
in form and content.



ANNEX 3D                                                                         Pare 89
18.          The District office would submit SOEs to the city budget office after these statements had
been certified by the district office chief and head of the school department. The city budget office would
consolidate the SOEs from the districts and have them certified by the head of the city administration
before they are forwarded to the oblast where they would be certified by the head of the oblast and
transmitted to the PCU. The PCU would provide the official certification to the Bank when requesting
the replenishment of the SA.



i



- m
- ....lNE..   DBSCRPTON OP SERVXrS                                              m_                              
Daupicyium Isawlos                                                                                 1996       1997        1996       1999      2000        TOTAL
1.  1sdhdmd  strevc&ula                   (a) Mab"iy  bq_mwu                                        3                                                        3
- Labor Makt Analya                                      2          2                                            4
-PflkyA-ysis                                             3          1                                            4
- Advar to Minicr of Labor                              12                                                       12
(b) Fdwd                                                            4                                            12
-M a M=ge       woab"P                                   5          2           2          2          2          13
2. UmqdMMI Bmacflianld                     (a) - Ue m eploy  Benefits                    2                                                                   2
Empiayvmm   S mvic                            - masslay-offs                                        2                                                        2
(b) Savuce Deivuty a Model Mo
Ow"s                                                     3          3                                            6
-Aplications                                          3           3                                            6              rI4
Sstems & Haudwam                                      2           2                                            4                    0
(d) Sandy T-r                                            5          5                                            10
3. Staff T m  snd Dsvsoey.p                (a) Traing PFicy carpt                                   10                                                      10
(b) - fPeowdips                                          3          3                                            6
- Sndy Tour                                     _                                                            8i
4. Pilot Pogram  for Tiaig and            (a) - Tnirng Speci-lWst                                   6                                                        6
Ruta of Unutopd                            - Womea and Youth Traii                               3          3                                            6
(b) Shtdy F llowdp                                       4          4                                            8
- Tr_f WOdC*AS                                       66  
- Trhing for utIne                                   3          3                                            6                     U 6
Social SelA go P_jec Pnpamdoa Phas
5. Deveopmt of ial Wok                     (a) Dverpnmt of Yr I
Pnga  (V&Pas 0mm)                          Radio0alizons Plans
(b) Asemea le
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____   R equirm ents
6  Syses Analysis                          (a) Computer Syso  Analysis                   3          3           1                                            7
7. Iooimion Muzmg                          (a) Mamgeme  Trainng Tours                    2                                                                   2
(b) Systs. Design                             I      _          __
Sbnd SVIes - FrAjCa PIrsI
S.  _unaue ad Staff Tr<in                  (a) Mmnazoment Tauing Tours                   2          B           a                                           18



SUECOMPONENT                                DESCRIPION OF SERVICES                       PPF
9. Financial Mangemnent Systems             (a) Development of Upgnded                    8          16          16          6          6          2          54
(Oblasts)                                     Fincial Systems
(b) Implementation of Financial
Systems
(c) Training in Financial
Management System
10. Health Management Specialist           Rationalization Plans and Implementation                  4           4           2          2                     12
11. Procurement Specialist                 Advise PCU                                     3          12          12          8          4          4          42
12. Technical Assistance                   Develop Work Plans                                        12          12          8          4          4          40
Administrator (PCU)                                                                      _____
13. Computer Systems Specialist            Design/lnstall system                          2          3           1                                             7
(PCU)
14. Financial Systems (PCU)                Install System                                 2          3           1                                             7
15. Management Information System          Install System                                            2                                                         4
(PCU)
16. Short-term Specialists                 - Human resource economiist
(national strategy support)                  3                                                                   3
- Phamaceuticals                                         3           1                                             4
- Medical equipmenttsupplies                             3           1                                             4
- Education managernent & supplies                       2           1                                             3
- Civil engineer                                         3           3                                             6
- Social impact monitoring                               1           I           I          I          1           5
- External auditors                                      4           3           2          2          2          13



KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 4A TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE STAFF
A. Introduction
1.           This Annex presents proposed Terms of Reference (TOR) for all expatriate project
advisory and administrative positions. TOR were prepared as a guide for project planning and consulting
firms interested in providing technical assistance services. The project requires expatriate technical
assistance with the mix of skills and expertise described in this annex. Final staffing decisions would aim
at that objective and not at meeting the precise qualifications suggested for each position. The Terms of
Reference are organized as follows:
(a) Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
(i)    Procurement Specialist
(ii)   Technical Assistance Administrator
(iii)   Computer Specialist
(iv)   Short-Term Consultancies
(b) Employment Services Component
(i)    Management Training Specialist
(ii)   Specialist in Labor Market Analysis
(iii)   Specialist in Policy Development
(iv)   Employment Service Specialist
(v)    Specialist in Mass-Layoff Procedures
(vi)   Computer Specialist
(vii)  Staff Training and Development Specialist
(viii)  Specialist in Programs for Retraining the Unemployed
(c) Social Services Component
(i)    Financial Management Specialist
(ii)    Health and Kindergarten Management Specialists
(a) Project Coordination Unit (PCI)
2.            The PCU would be responsible for overall implementation support to the project,
including the provision of specialized consulting services to the Oblasts and cities participating in the
project. Consulting services would include, at the PCU level, two long-term consultants: a Technical
Assistance Administrator, who will act as Chief of Party, a procurement specialist; and short-term
consultants for specialized financial and accounting advice, computer skills, procurement of supplies and
equipment, pharmaceutical and medical equipment, and for civil engineering. The consulting services
to be provided herein will begin under the PPF and the invitation for proposals would include the PPF
phase (Phase 1), project start-up and initial two years (Phase II), and the remaining three years (Phase
III). More detailed TOR would be included in the invitation for proposals to describe this.
POSITION (i):       TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ADMINISTRATOR



Page 93                                                                        ANNEX 4A
A. Job Description
3.           The Technical Assistance Administrator would report to the PCU director. His/her main
responsibility would be to assist the PCU director in all aspects of the coordination and follow-up of
project implementation and, most specifically, on the coordination of technical assistance and on financial
management matters. As such, he/she would:
(a)    help organize the launching of project activities by working closely with the CCs to
organize workshops or seminars in Almaty and in the two oblasts before the start of project
implementation. The purpose of these workshops would be to familiarize the key staff that would be
involved in project implementation with the project concept, contractual implications, implementation
arrangements and financial mechanisms to be put in place. (TOR for Component Coordinators are
included at the end of the annex);
(b)    help set up a system for the coordination and follow up of project activities to ensure an
adequate flow of information and feedback between Almaty, the oblasts and the cities. This would entail
preparing and reaching an agreement on the standards and timetable for the preparation of annual work
programs and budgets (WP), the review and clearing of the WP, the format and schedule of the reportig
of project implementation, practical steps for the flow of funds, the setting-up of an effective
communications system between Almaty and the oblasts and cities;
(c)    help design and maintain a system of record keeping for all formal activities and
transactions of project activities at the city and oblast level and in Almaty. The project files thus defined
would include but not be limited to the following documents: the status of project accounts; all
procurement information; status of project components; the project plan including organization and
staffing, milestones, issues; achievements and critical events;
(d)    define a project reporting system in close collaboration with the financial and accounting
experts in the oblasts;
(e)    help the CCs identify training needs and propose adequate programs to meet those needs
whether on the job, within the country or outside the country. He/she would also help design evaluation
modalities for the training to be undertaken; and
(f)    coordinate the identification of the need, the hiring, and the management of all technical
assistance under the project.
B. Assignment
4.            Two years with possibility of short-time assignment of 4-6 months during PY3-5.
C. Background Experience and Qualifications
5.            Candidates for the job of Technical Assistance Administrator should have a university
degree (master's degree or higher) in business management, public administration, accounting and finance
or economics. In addition, they should have acquired extensive and meaningful operational experience
in economic development project management in developing countries for a minimum of 10 years in well
defined and structured situations. They should be able to demonstrate proven ability to work in the
context of a multi-disciplinary and multi-cultural team.



ANNEX 4A                                                                         Page 94
POSITION (ii):             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
A. Job Description:
6.           The Procurement Specialist reports to the PCU director. He/she would:
(a)    develop a simple manual of procurement guidelines corresponding to the procurement
arrangements proposed under the project and described both in the SAR and the Loan agreement and in
accordance with the "Procurement Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA credits" dated May 1992. Key
topics to be included in the manual include a presentation of the main methods of procurement to be
followed under the project; the distribution of direct responsibilities among the cities, the oblasts, the
MOL, the PCU for each method; a description of the procedures for the review of procurement decisions
by the Bank; and a description of the provision for preferences for domestic manufacturers and
contractors;
(b)    organize, at the start of project implementation, workshops or seminar at each oblast for
CCs from the oblast and the cities to explain the procurement arrangements under the project using the
manual produced. A special emphasis would be paced during those seminars on the respective roles of
the CCs and the PCU in procurement, coordination of procurement matters between cities and oblasts
and the link between the annual work programs and budgets and procurement under the project;
(c)   identify the training needs for oblast and city staff in procurement management, design
and implement a training plan accordingly;
(d)    organize the preparation of the bidding documents, notification and advertizing in
coordination with the cities and the oblasts administrations, supervise the bid opening, evaluation and
award of contract using procedures acceptable to the Bank;
(e)    ensure that the services and/or goods contracted for are provided or delivered as stipulated
in the contracts; and
(f)    assist the cities to carry out the procurement of goods and services at the local level when
applicable using procedures acceptable to the Bank.
B. Assignment
7.           Twenty two months during PYI and PY2, with possibilities of short-term assignments
between 4-6 months during PY3-PY5.
C. Background, Experience and Qualifications
8.           Candidates for the post of procurement specialist should have a master's degree in
economics, finance, business management or engineering and a minimum of 10 to 15 years of experience
in project implementation and management, procurement management, or in a responsible position
responsible for logistics and materials and equipment acquisition with a major company or institution
operating internationally.
POSITION (iii):            COMPUTER SPECIALIST
A. Job Description



Page 95                                                                       ANNEX 4A
9.           The computer specialist will be responsible for designing and installing a computerized
Management Information System (MIS) at the PCU to facilitate the implementation of the project. He/she
would:
(a)   identify the requirements of the project at all levels for a good MIS, working closely with
the CCs, the financial and accounting specialists, the technical assistance administrator, the procurement
specialist and other relevant people directly involved in the project;
(b)    design a computer system that meets the needs identified and, as appropriate, prepare the
specifications necessary for the PCU to initiate procurement actions. This will include the design or
choice of a software package that is appropriate;
(c)   identity the training needs for the personnel expected to run the system; and
(d)    design and organize the training of project personnel as appropriate.
B. Assignment
10.          Six months, with possibility of contract renewal if deemed necessary.
C. Background, Experience and Qualirications
l1.          Candidates for the post of computer specialist would have a university degree in computer
science or management information. In addition, they should have practical, hands-on experience of at
least 10 years and designing, installing and managing computing systems in either major industrial
companies, government, development projects or accounting firms.
POSITION (iv):             SHORT-TERM CONSULTANCIES
12.          A variety of short term consultants would be required during project implementation and
even before project implementation starts in areas such as financial and accounting management,
management information systems, computer systems, procurement of special equipment and supplies, civil
engineering and health and kindergartens management. Specific terms of reference for these consultants
will be drafted as and when needed under the coordination of the Technical Assistance Administrator and
with appropriate inputs from relevant officials involved in the concerned areas of project implementation.
(b)    Employment Service Component
13.          The Employment Services Component of the Project has four elements covering:
(i)   Institutional strengthening of the Employment Service;
(ii)    Development and implementation of a simplified Unemployment Benefit system and
improvement in the delivery of services to clients of the ES;
(iii)   Training and development of staff; and
(iv)   A pilot program  in selected oblasts to strengthen counseling and training of the
unemployed.



ANNEX 4A                                                                         Page 96
Technical assistance is required covering each of these components.
POSITION (i)        MANAGEMENT TRAINING SPECIALIST
A. Job Description
14.          The Management Training Specialist would provide a series of Management Training
Workshops designed to assist managers of the Employment Service to handle considerable changes in the
coming years. Managers will need new skills to overcome any labor market problems that arise as a
market economy is developed. They will also need to show leadership as this project is implemented.
They will need different skills in financial management and operational planning; as well as new skills
for dealing with ES clients, both employers and the unemployed. Emphasis in the workshops will be
placed not only on training selected managers but on training ES trainers to ensure that management
improvement, including financial management, operational planning and accountability, is built into the
training system of the ES. Consultants will be expected to transfer their skills to those trainers.
B. Assignment
15.          Ten person-months during PY 1.
B. Background, Experience and Qualifications
16.          Candidates to provide technical assistance in management training should have extensive
training in management in large public sector organizations. Candidates must have experience in the
specialties required to be covered in the training workshops, namely, financial management, operational
planning, managerial accountability and responsibilities, and client relationships. They should have
experience in countries undergoing economic transition such as the countries of Eastern Europe or the
former Soviet Union.
POSITION (ii)              SPECIALIST IN LABOR MARKET ANALYSIS
A. Job Description
17.          The system for gathering and monitoring labor market information and statistics needs
to be upgraded. This will require the development of computer systems and a substantial revision of
statistical systems such as revising industry and occupation coding and data collection methods. Work
needs to be done in developing skills in analyzing employment indicators, and in preparing limited
employment, and industry and occupation, forecasts. Technical assistance is to be provided to enable
the Employment Service to revise its statistical systems by revising its industry and occupation coding
and data collection methods. Assistance is to be provided to enable the DOE to collect, disseminate
and analyze labor market information such as employment indicators, and in preparing employment,
industry and occupation forecasts. Assistance should also be provided in arranging fellowships for
key officials to examine labor market techniques in other countries.
B. Assignment
18.          Two person-months in each PYI and PY2



Page 97                                                                       ANNEX 4A
C. Background, Experience and Qualifications
19.          Candidates to provide technical assistance in labor market analysis should have extensive
experience in the field, preferably with an international organization or a national government
organization such as an ES or statistical agency. Preferably, they should have experience in countries
undergoing economic transition such as the countries of Eastern Europe or the FSU.
POSITION (iii)             SPECIALIST IN LABOR MARKET POLICY
A. Job Description
20.          New policies and programs will be required in Kazakhstan as the labor market
changes. New management skills will be required to ensure that the improved research and analytical
capability leads to improved policy development. The ES will need to develop its policy units and
prepare any necessary laws and decrees that might be needed. This is especially important given the
legalistic basis for operating public sector organizations in the country. Technical assistance is to be
provided to assist the DOE to develop its policy unit and assist with preparing any necessary laws and
decrees that might be required to give effect to policies. The Specialist will also provide advise to the
Minister of Labor. Assistance will also be required in arranging study tours and fellowships for
selected officers to study techniques used elsewhere for policy development. Appropriate seminars
and information sessions should be arranged in Kazakhstan itself.
B. Assignment
21.          Twelve months.
C. Background, Experience and Qualifications
22.          Candidates should have extensive experience in undertaking, development of policy work
with large public sector organizations. They should have experience in countries undergoing economic
transition such as the countries of Eastern Europe or the FSU.
POSITION (iv):             EMPLOYMENT SERVICE SPECIALIST
A. Job Description
23.          Assistance will be provided to upgrade the operations of the ES through preparing
new guidelines and procedures for basic functions such as registering job seekers, taking job
vacancies, matching the unemployed to jobs, and assessing eligibility for unemployment benefits.
Employment offices will be upgraded and re-equipped to cope with the growing number of
unemployed; in particular a Model Office (MO) will be established in each oblast. Two particular
fields of activity would be undertaken:
(a)    The procedures for assessing claims for UB are to be simplified with individual
officers taking greater responsibility for making decisions. The system is to be computerized
including automating regular payments to beneficiaries. Procedures will be developed to deal with
clients in remote locations. A system of monitoring payments and, in the longer term, fraud control
needs to be implemented.



ANNEX 4A                                                                         Page 98
(b)    The daily operations of the employment offices are to be completely restructured. New
operating procedures will be developed, covering basic functions such as registering unemployed people,
accepting job vacancies from employers, matching unemployed people to jobs, and providing a self-
service system for the unemployed. Standard operating manuals will be prepared with a far stronger
client focus in the operations of the ES.
B. Assignment
24.          Four months in PY1 and 1 months in PY2
C. Background, Experience and Qualifications
25.          Candidates to provide technical assistance in developing operational procedures of the ES
should have extensive experience with a large national ES. In particular they should be experienced in
developing relevant procedures. Preferably, they should have experience in countries undergoing
economic transition such as the countries of Eastern Europe or the FSU.
POSITION (v)               SPECIALIST IN MASS LAYOFF PROCEDURES
A. Job Description
26.          The consultant will be required to develop procedures for dealing with enterprises that
are retrenching workers as a result of industry restructuring. Particular emphasis will be placed on
situations of mass layoffs, streamlining the procedures for registering retrenchees and making greater
use of temporary employment schemes, especially in areas where unemployment is already high.
B. Assignment
27.          Two months in PYI.
C. Background, Experience and Qualifications
28.          Candidates to provide technical assistance in developing operational procedures for dealing
with mass layoffs should have extensive experience in dealing with these situations. They should be
experienced in developing relevant procedures. Preferably, they should have experience in countries
undergoing economic transition such as the countries of Eastern Europe or the FSU.
POSITION (vi)              COMPUTER SPECIALISTS
A. Job Description
29.          The work of the ES will be extensively computerized. Major areas of development
include: an UB system for ES operations, a labor market information system, a system of financial
masnagement and a system for managing the Employment Fund. While the ES does have a large number
of computers (PCs), most are obsolete. However, it has developed efficient software for a number of
ES functions such as registering unemployed people and this work will be built on as the most effective
means of further development. Technical assistance is required to assist the ES undertake its development
work, in particular by assisting with the development and implementation of strategic options for
computerizing the functions of the ES. The strategy would encompass issues such as the data standards
to be used, the computer and telecommunications technologies to be used and the software strategies to



Page 99                                                                       ANNEX 4A
be followed. Assistance will be required as the strategy is implemented. Consultants should note that
it is expected that the functional software specific to the needs of the ES is to be developed by the ES
itself.
B. Assignment
30.          Six person-months of assistance would be required in PYI (consisting of 4 months by a
systems expert and 2 months by a technical expert), and 4 months in Year 2 (2 months each by the both
the systems and technical experts)
C. Background, Experience and Qualifications
31.          Candidates should be computer professionals with appropriate academic qualifications or
proven experience over five to ten years. They should be experienced in the relevant areas such as UB
systems, labor market information and financial management. They should also be experienced in the
technicalities of local area networks. Preferably, they should have experience in countries undergoing
economic transition such as the countries of Eastern Europe or the FSU.
POSITION (vii)      STAFF TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT SPECIALISTS
A. Job Description
32.          Consultants will be required to develop and deliver staff training at many levels of the
ES. While much of the training will be procedural (for example, on new rules for administering UB)
a significant element will be concerned introducing completely new ways for staff to go about their work.
For example, under the vertical organization structure that is typically used, each staff member has
limited skills and job requirements. This will not be effective in handling the greatly increased but
irregular workloads that are already arising. Staff will need to become multi-skilled, in particular with
greater emphasis on most staff members having some computer skills. Fellowships and study tours will
also be provided for selected staff, enabling them to study, in some depth, the employment systems in
other countries; particularly concentrating on specialties such as labor market research, financial
management, unemployment benefit systems and computerization.
B. Assignment
33.          Five person-months in PYI; 3 months in PY2 and 2 months in PY3.
C. Background, Experience and Qualirications
34.          Candidates to provide technical assistance in staff training and development should have
extensive experience in undertaking training in large public sector organizations, preferably in
employment services. They should also have experience in countries undergoing economic transition such
as the countries of Eastern Europe or the FSU.



ANNEX 4A                                                                        Page 100
POSITION (viii):    SPECIALIST IN PROGRAMS FOR RETRAINING THE UNEMPLOYED
A. Job Description
35.          The consultant would be required to assist the ES develop a sharper focus for the training
and retraining of the unemployed through orienting the work of Training Centers towards demand-driven
training and a greater use of external training providers. It will be run as a pilot program in three oblast
city centers- Almaty, Pavlodar and Shymkent and will develop the capacity of the regional Training
Centers to coordinate activities with city Employment Offices, public and private training providers and
the business community; to utilize the most recent methods for assessing job seeker capabilities; and to
develop information and advisory services to job seekers wishing to participate in training courses. An
additional objective is to stimulate the development of business start-up courses for unemployed clients,
specifically women, in collaboration with non-government training providers
B. Assignment
36.          Seven person-months in PYI and 5 months in PY2.
C. Background, Experience and Qualifications
37.          Candidates to provide technical assistance in developing retraining programs for the
unemployed should have extensive experience with a large national ES. In particular they should be
experienced in developing relevant procedures. They should have experience in countries undergoing
economic transition such as the countries of Eastern Europe or the FSU.
(c) Social Service Component
38.          The Social Services Component would be undertaken as a pilot project within a number
of cities in 2 oblasts (South Kazakhstan and Pavlodar). Technical assistance would be required directly
in each oblast and city covering two fields; financial management and health and kindergarten
management.
POSITION (i)        FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTING SPECIALISTS
39.          At the oblast and city level, technical assistance would be directly required and provided
in financial management and accounting. Two financial management and accounting specialists would
be located at each of the two oblasts (one per oblast). Their main responsibility would be to work closely
with the CCs and the personnel of the financial departments of the cities to set up an financial and
accounting systems to record project activities, produce project accounts and quarterly as well as annual
reports, and generally, to monitor project activities. A more detailed job description follows.
A. Job Description
40.          The Financial Management and Accounting Specialists will:
(a)    make a diagnostic of the existing budgetary planning, execution, control and reporting
procedures, the accounting methods by assessing the existing accounting system (reliability, accuracy,
control mechanisms, reporting procedures, operational relevance and actual utilization), the level of
qualifications and effectiveness of the personnel, identification of the strong points and the weak points;



Page 101                                                                      ANNEX
(b)    explain to the personnel of the city financial department the accounting and financial
reporting requirements under the project. A implementation reference manual should be produced to
facilitate the work;
(c)   identify improvements or modifications that would be needed to the existing system to
satisfy the project requirements;
(d)    design a simple accounting system to document and record all transactions and
expenditures related to the project activities. This would include a simple chart of accounts that is related
to the municipal system. Procedures to maintain the accounts through regular posting of project
transactions and monthly production of reports (including trial balances) should be defined. The proposed
system would include specific features to manage and trace the status of the following: the World Bank
Credit Account, the Special Account at all levels, the Project Accounts and the Counterpart Fund
Accounts and the SOEs;
(e)    design a computer system and software in close collaboration with the computer specialist
in support of the accounting system designed;
(f)    design a project reporting system that would provide key financial and other information
on project implementation. The reporting system should provide, among other things, up to date and
regular information on the rehabilitation cost (total and unit costs by asset), equipment costs (total and
unit costs by asset and by facility), the cost of supplies (total and unit costs by type of supply and by
facility), recurrent costs (total and unit costs by nature of expenditure), cost recovery revenues (total
costs, cost per unit and as a percentage of total costs), project revenues (from the World Bank, from the
Government and from cost recovery). These data would systematically compare planned and actual levels
achieved;
(g)    based on the identification of training needs, develop a training program for the city
personnel including the production of training materials, targeting of personnel to be trained and
establishment of an evaluation system;
B. Assignment
41.          Eight months during PYI and PY2, six months each in PY3 and PY4, and two months
in PY5.
C. Background, Qualifications and Experience
42,.         Candidates should be CPAs, have a degree in accounting or an MBA with a focus on
financial management and accounting. They should have at least 10 years of professional experience with
an accounting firm or as financial and accounting manager or controller in a reputable corporation or a
similar project. Candidates should have international experience, preferable in an economy in transition.
POSITION (ii):             HEALTH AND KINDERGARTEN MANAGEMENT SPECIALISTS
A. Job Description
43.          Health and kindergarten management specialists would provide technical assistance to
oblast and city health/education authorities to support the development and implementation of
health/kindergarten sector rationalization plans financed under the project. It is envisioned that the health



ANNEX 4A                                                                       Page 102
management specialist will provide 4 person months of assistance in each PYI and PY2, and two months
of assistance per year in PY3 and PY4. The kindergarten specialist would provide support for two
months in PYI and I month each PY2 and PY3. He/she would provide support to implementing
authorities in the following key areas, as part of the authorities' annual work plans:
(a)   development and agreement of annual facility-specific rationalization plans, including
closure and amalgamation plans, ensuring that these annual plans are consistent with the
project's overall rationalization program;
(b)   development of detailed implementation plans for the rationalization process, including
project milestones, management actions required and timetables;
(c)   identification of priority investment areas for rehabilitation works, supplies and
equipment, both to facilitate the rationalization process and to improve general services;
(d)   implementation and monitoring of cost reduction and productivity improvement measures;
(e)   implementation and monitoring of cost-recovery mechanisms; and
(f)    year by year progress and performance review of rationalization plans;
B. Assignment
44.          As specified above.
C. Background, Qualifications and Experience
45.          Candidates will have at least an MA or MS degree or equivalent in health
planning/education planning or health/education economics and at least 10 years of experience in working
with healthlpre-school issues in the developing world, and preferably experience with issues and
structures of health/pre-school services in the Former Soviet Union or CIS.
Terms of Reference of the Components Coordinators
Employment Services Component
46.          The Employment Service Component Coordinator will be responsible for:
(i)   ensuring coordination within the MOL and the DOE of action to be undertaken under
the component and ensuring that each unit within the Labor portfolio has a clear
understanding of its role and responsibilities under the project;.
(ii)   ensuring the efficient and effective implementation of the component and that the
implementation timetable is being followed and informing the Head of DOE and the
PCU of any delays in implementation and proposing actions to correct the problems;
(iii)  bringing any issues requiring policy action or requiring coordination among donors to
the attention of the Head of DOE and the PCU director;



Pape 103                                                                       ANNEX 4A
(iv)   preparing, with the help of the relevant units of the DOE and with support from
technical assistance provided under the project, lists and specifications of equipment to
be procured under the project and TORs for additional technical assistance; all such
documents to be approved by the Head of the implementing agency before being
transmitted to the PCU;
(v)    forwarding contracts for goods and services to the Minister of Labor, who would co-
sign these contracts with the director of the PCU;
(vi)   after ensuring that goods and services have been provided according to the terms of
the contract, preparing and forwarding documents to the Minister to enable him to
authorize the PCU to pay contractors for goods and service; under the employment
component;
(vii)  preparing progress implementation reports on the employment component for
signature by the Minister and transmission to the PCU; and
(viii)  acting as the Minister of Labor's representative on PCC meetings.
Social Services Component
The implementation of the component would be coordinated by Component Coordinators
(CCs) at the oblast and city administration levels. The CCs would be directly responsible to the heads
of the oblast and city administrations. The CCs would be responsible for the following tasks:
A. Project Understanding
(i)   the first responsibility of the CCs would be to thoroughly familiarize themselves with the
project concept, the project design, the implementation mechanisms including
management arrangements, flow of funds, disbursements, procurement and special
account operations;
(ii)   the next task is to ensure that the staff directly involved with the project at the finance
departments, the education and health departments of the oblast and city administrations
have a clear understanding of their roles and responsibilities under the project. To this
effect, it would be advisable that they hold project launch workshops after the project has
become effective and before actual implementation starts. At the end of this workshop,
their should prepare a brief and simple project fact book that describes the project
objectives and activities, the implementation arrangements and the responsibilities of the
respective staff implicated at the appropriate levels. This fact book would serve as a
useful reference manual and would be updated as needed.
B. Planning of Project Activities
47.           At the city level, the city CCs would be responsible for the preparation of the Annual
Work Program and Budget (AWP) for the city.
48.           They would prepare them in close coordination with the city finance, health and education
officials and with the assistance of the technical assistance teams. They would subsequently submit the



ANNEX 4A                                                                       Page 104
draft AWP to the city administration head for approval before it is forwarded to the head of the oblast
administration.
49.          At the oblast level, the CCs would assist the city CCs in their efforts to ensure a clear
and sound understanding of the project as proposed above. They would also coordinate the preparation
of the AWP by the CCs of the three cities participating in the project to ensure that it is consistent with
the project concept and objectives. They would also ensure the AWP exercise is done on the same
pattern and following the same procedures and format in all the cities. Finally, they would be responsible
for reviewing the AWPs submitted by the cities, consolidating them in one oblast document and
presenting it to the head of the oblast administration for approval before it is forwarded to the PCU.
C. Project Implementation
50.          At the city level, the CCs would:
(i)    ensure the efficient and effective implementation of the component and that the project
implementation schedule is respected.;
(ii)   bring any issue of policy or project implementation to the attention of the head of the city
administration for immediate action as appropriate;
(iii)  prepare, with support from the PCU and technical assistance provided under the project,
lists and specifications of equipment and supplies to be procured under the project. This
would be in close coordination with the health and education staff of the city
administration. The lists would be transmitted to the oblast CCs and subsequently to the
PCU.
(iv)   for goods and services that would be procured locally, prepare the corresponding
contracts for approval and signature by the head of the city administration;
(v)    after having ensured that the goods and services have been provided according to the
terms of the contract, prepare and forward documents the heads of the city and oblast
administrations for transmission to PCU for internationally procured goods; and to the
head of the city administration for him to authorize payment for locally procured goods
and services;
(vi)   manage the project account and the counterpart account at the city level, prepare
Statements of Expenditure;
(vii)  prepare withdrawal applications to be approved by the head of the city administration,
signed by him and forwarded to the oblast administration which consolidate and sign
them before transmission to the PCU which would finally certify them and send to the
World Bank;
(viii)  monitor overall progress of the project and help coordination between the health and
education sub-components;
(ix)   prepare progress and annual implementation reports and update implementation schedules
as appropriate;



Page 105                                                                       ANNEX 4A
(x)    hold frequent meetings with the health and education staff to review and discuss
implementation progress;
(xi)   serve as project secretariat at the city level; and
(xii)   with the help of technical assistance provided under the project, supervise the
management of project accounting by the city finance department.
At the oblast level, the CCs would:
(i)    monitor overall progress of the project and coordinate the work of the city CCs;
(ii)    manage the Second Generation Special Project Account (SGSA) at the oblast branch of
the NKB;
(iii)  review and consolidate the reports and documents from the cities before submission to
the head of the oblast and transmission to the PCU;
(iv)   support the city CCs in coordination of technical assistance and relations with the PCU
in procurement matters.;
(v)    prepare periodic and yearly implementation reports based on information provided by the
city CCs; and
(vi)   serve as the secretariat for the project at the oblast level.



KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 5. IMPLEMENTATION MECHANISMS
A. Overall Implementation Coordination
1.           Implementation of specific project components would be the responsibility of the
respective project agency (MOL in the case of the ES component and the local authorities in South
Kazakhstan and Paviodar oblasts in the case of the Social Services Component. Overall responsibility
for project coordination will rest with the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) headed by a coordinator and
located in the MOF. The PCU would be supported by the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) whose
main task would be to oversee project implementation. The PCC would be chaired by a high-level
government official and include high level representatives from the Apparatus of the Government, the
Ministries of Finance, Economy, Labor, Social Protection, Health, Education, the GKI and the oblast
administrations of South Kazakhstan and Paviodar.
2.           The main task of the PCC would be to provide guidance to the PCU as appropriate and
to oversee project implementation. In particular, it would also assist and provide policy guidance to the
PCU as needed in interagency coordination. The PCC would meet every three months or more
frequently when necessary. CCs would also be invited to participate in those meetings as needed and the
PCU would serve as its secretariat. The PCC would review and help resolve all issues raised by project
implementation which cannot be resolved by the implementation agencies or the PCU.
3.           The main responsibilities of the PCU (Annex 6) would be to provide overall project
coordination in the areas of (a) implementation oversight; (b) procurement and purchasing of foreign
goods and services; (c) goverrnent interagency coordination; (d) training and TA coordination; (e)
consolidation of the annual work plans and budgets as well as the progress and annual reports received
from cities through the oblasts;(f) consolidation of project accounts; (g) operation of the SA in Almaty;
and (h) project supervision and assistance to the component implementation agencies.
4.           The PCU would report to the Minister of Finance. Its staff would include the PCU
Coordinator (local), an accountant (local), a disbursement specialist (local), a procurement expert
(foreign), a technical assistance coordinator (foreign), a financial management expert (foreign), a
computer specialist (possibly a United Nations Volunteer), two bilingual secretaries and a translator. In
addition, a limited number of short term consultants would be recruited as needed for the purchase of
items such as pharmaceuticals and medical equipment requiring specialized procurement skills. A civil
engineer would be recruited on a short term basis to supervise the civil works needed for the
rehabilitation of facilities. The Technical Assistance Coordinator would work closely with the PCU
Director to coordinate overall long and short term technical assistance, ensure that implementation is
carried out according to schedule, coordinate the preparation of and consolidate annual work programs
and budgets, progress and annual reports as well as project accounts.
B. Implementation of Components
5.           The respective agencies involved with the project would be responsible for the
implementation of their components: the Ministry of Labor would implement the ES component while
the administrations of the oblasts would be responsible for project activities in their oblast for the Social
Services Component and as such would be responsible for supervising city administrations. Overall
coordination for the two project components would be done by the PCU under the general guidance of
the PCC.   In each implementing agency and at each significant level of activity, Component



Page 107                                                                      ANNEX 5
Coordinators (CC) have been nominated: one at MOL, two at each oblast and city administration. For
the ES component, the MOL CC would report to the Head of the Employment Services Department. For
the Social Services component, the oblast CCs would report to the heads of the oblast administrations and
the city CCs would report to the heads of the city administrations.
6.           Employment Services. The main responsibility for the implementation of the ES
component would rest with the Director of ES at MOL. He would be assisted by the CCs. The main
role of the CCs would be to coordinate project activities between MOL and the oblasts. They would
request, review and consolidate the draft annual work programs and budgets from the oblast employment
services directors and the Almaty and Pavlodar city coordinators as appropriate for each of the main areas
of project activities. The Head of ES would clear these drafts before they are submitted to the PCU for
transmission to ministry where the PCU is located) and subsequently to the Ministry of Finance. They
would also request and review and consolidate progress and annual reports before sending them to the
Minister of Labor and the PCU.
7.           Social Services Component. The focal point of this component implementation would
be the city CCs. They would be responsible for the preparation of the annual work programs and budgets
and their implementation by the health and education services. The CCs would also help ensure that
adequate project accounts are established and that quarterly and annual progress reports are prepared.
At the oblast level, the CCs would be responsible for coordinating the planning and implementation of
project activities at the city level, consolidating the annual work programs and budgets and ensuring that
the project financing requirements are incorporated in the oblast budgets before they are sent to the PCU
and subsequently to the Ministry of Finance during the annual budget preparation process. They would
also review and consolidate the progress and annual reports before they are sent to the PCU.
C. Annual Work Programs and Budgets
8.           The project would be implemented through annual work programs (AWP).  The
preparation of the annual work program would follow the same timetable as the government budget cycle
(January Ist- December 31). The MOL CC would be responsible for coordinating the preparation of the
ES annual work programs and budgets by the directors of ES of the oblasts. These programs and budgets
would be submitted through the appropriate channels to the PCU.
9.           The city CCs would be responsible for the preparation of the AWP for the social assets
program of the city. This AWP would be submitted to the city council as part of the city budget for
approval. In the budget proposals, project activities would be clearly identified and set aside for easy
follow-up. The AWP approved by the city council would be forwarded to the oblast admninistration
through the oblast CCs who would consolidate all the AWPs from the cities reporting to that particular
oblast. The oblast council would then approve the consolidated AWP and forward them to the PCU.
The budget for the oblast would thus include two separate distinct broad sections: the normal budget
based on its current operations not taking project activities into consideration, and the budget specifically
related to project activities. This latter section would include the program of capital investments
(rehabilitation, equipment, supplies), and incremental recurrent costs for the project with a clear
indication of the financing sought for the incremental recurrent costs. The budget request would include
the additional budget required for current operations and the incremental recurrent costs.
10.          The PCU would review, approve and consolidate the AWPs received from MOL and the
oblasts. It would be responsible for submitting the consolidated AWP to the MOF for inclusion in the
national budget to ensure that appropriate allocations are made for the financing of the share of the project
incremental costs both for the ES and the Social Services components.



ANNEX 5                                                                           Page 108
11.          The AWPs would include the following: (a) a statement of the objectives to be pursued
for the coming year; (b) a detailed description of the activities proposed in order to meet those objectives,
this would be expressed, within the context of the rationalization plans: (assets to be divested,
rehabilitation program, investment and supplies needs, setting of norms, cost recovery targets); (c) an
estimation of the costs necessary to carry out the social assets program broken down into incremental
recurrent costs, non-incremental recurrent costs and rehabilitation, equipment and supplies costs per social
facility; (d) the proposed financing plan for the activities including local financing, World Bank financing
and, in the case of the social services program, revenues from user's fees.
12.          The AWPs would be submitted to the Bank for review and conmments at the same time
they are submitted to the PCU. The Bank would carefully review the submitted AWPs and make
commnents and recommendations as appropriate. The AWPs would the basis for the implementation of
project activities in any given year.
13.          Reporting requirements under the project would be as follows: quarterly progress reports
would be prepared and submitted not later than 30 days after the end of the quarter. They would include
information on the following:
(a)    a summary by component of project activities undertaken during the quarter;
(b)    a description of the main achievements and problems;
(c)    progress in the implementation of corrective measures identified the previous quarter;
(d)    a presentation of the financial situation of the project in terms of actual versus budget for
the major expenditure categories and the financing of the categories; and
(e)    a presentation of the financial situation of each component.
14.          At the end of the fiscal year, an annual report would be likewise prepared along the same
lines as the quarterly progress reports except that it would be more detailed and submitted no later than
45 days after the end of the year. The quarterly and annual reports would be prepared by the CCs for
each component. Their reports would in turn be consolidated with an introduction describing the major
achievements and problems being submitted to the PCU for final clearance. The reports cleared by the
PCU would be forwarded to the Bank.
15.          Separate accounts would be kept of project activities. At the end of the fiscal year, these
accounts would be audited by an independent auditing firm and forwarded to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of the fiscal year.






KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 6. PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
A. Project Coordination Unit Overview
1.           A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) located in the Ministry of Finance (MOF) will be
established for the duration of the project to fulfill the roles of project implementation oversight, assist
in financial management, project sub-component coordination, and procurement planning and operation.
The PCU will serve as the Social Services Project's primary contact with the Kazakh Governments
agencies, the World Bank, foreign donor Governments, non-government organizations and others. Also,
for the Social Services component of the project, the PCU will provide specialized technical services to
the oblasts and raions implementing those activities falling under their authority. The responsibilities and
activity plans for the PCU are described in detail below.
General and specific functions of the PCU
2.           The general functions and responsibilities of the PCU Would be as follow:
(a)    Administration
(b)    Project Planning
(c)    Organization Development
(d)    Operating Procedure Development
(e)   Implementation Oversight and Coordination
(f)    Training and Technical Assistance Coordination
3.    Specific PCU Responsibilities: The following specific activities would be perforrned by the PCU.
(a)    Comply with directives of the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) and coordination
of all activities needed for project execution;
(b)    Prepare the guidelines for planning, preparation, supervision, administration, bidding and
execution of project activities in accordance with the agreements to be agreed upon by
the Bank and the Government in the proposed Loan Agreement;
(c)    Assist in coordination between the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor, Oblast and
Municipal Governments to assure a consistent approach in project implementation;
(d)    provide the technical, administrative and logistical assistance necessary for the ministerial
departments, component coordinators and others institutions responsible for
implementation;
(e)    Prepare terms of reference, recruit, hire, train fully qualified PCU professional and
administrative staff members;
(f)    Prepare terms of reference, hire under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and
supervise the external advisors who will assist the PCU in carrying out its responsibilities
in supervising and assisting the implementation of project components;



Page 110                                                                        ANNEX 6
(g)    Assist and monitor project activities of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor and
oblast and municipalities responsible for implementation.  Assistance will include
preparation of Terms of Reference, hiring under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank and management supervision of consultants who will assist in implementation, or
delegate such supervision to the implementing agency responsible.
(h)    Assist and supervise project activities of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labor
and municipalities responsible for implementation with the formulation of bidding
documents, procurement specifications, evaluation of bid proposals, negotiation of terms,
and drafting of contracts between the suppliers and the project component units;
(i)    Review and approve the final project-related contracts forwarded to the PCU and
thereafter to the Bank for final approval prior to contract signature;
(j)    Assist implementation agencies in problem solving;
(k)    Ensure that works, equipment, training and studies under execution are consistent with
the requirements of the implementation programs for each component;
(1)    Require, and assist, the implementing units to provide periodic reports on the physical
and financial status of project components;
(m)   Develop and implement a financial administration system for the project which includes
procedures and controls to accurately account for loan disbursements and counterpart
fnds to enable adequate monitoring and control of implementation of the project anmnal
investment plan;
(n)    Maintain accounts and records for the project records;
(o)    Maintain records of progress indicators for each component under execution;
(p)    Verify that progress reports from the implementing units are reliable;
(q)    Coordinate with implementing agencies and Bank missions with respect to supervision,
execution, evaluation and other activities;
(r)    Assemble the necessary information to request from the Special Account and from the
Bank directly, as appropriate, the reimbursement of Bank funds used to execute project
components; and
(s)    Prepare annual consolidated progress and annual reports and any other reports requested
by the Bank.
B. PCU Organization and Staffing
4.            The PCU would be headed by a Director with demonstrated management ability, English
language (desirable), and vested with a sufficient level of authority to enable him/her to carry out the
responsibilities of the PCU at the ministerial level and act as project spokesperson in relations between
the Ministries and the Bank.



ANNEX 6                                                                         Page 111
5.           The Director will be assisted by a small number of professional staff assigned to the PCU
office (para 7 below).
6.           The elements of the PCU are as follows:
(a)    Director.  The Director would be responsible for the technical and administrative
management and leadership of the Social Services Project. The Director would report
to the Minister of Finance.
(b)    Procurement Function. Within the PCU there would be a functional activity to provide
assistance, advice, and supervision to the implementing institutions with regard to the
procurement of civil works, equipment and related services. It would also provide
assistance, advice and supervision to the implementation units with regard to recruitment
of consultants and technical assistance/training services.
(c)    Finance and Accounting Function. Within the PCU there would be a functional activity
to prepare and maintain project detailed and summary accounting and fuacial analysis
records and reports.
(d)    Project Planning and Control Function. Within the PCU there would be a functional
activity to prepare and maintain the Project Master Implementation Plan and Compone
Detailed Implementation Plans. In addition, the Project Planning and Control Function
would provide ongoing support to the PCU Director in evaluating the component
progress against activity and financial plans and preparing revised plans that reflect
project progress and revised strategies for effective use of project resources.
7.           Staff of the PCU. The PCU would draw on the resources of the Ministry of Finance, the
Ministry of Labor, the South Kazakhstan and Paviodar Oblasts and the municipalities. The senior
professional staff, external advisors and trainees needed to carry out the PCU function are:
1 Project Coordination Unit Director
1 Project Procurement Specialist (long term)
1 Technical Assistance Administrator (long term)
1 Accountant
1 Computer Systems Specialist (short term)
1 Financial Management Expert (short term)
1 Disbursement Specialist
Specialized short term advisors in procurement of pharmaceuticals, medical equipment, education
equipment and supplies, and civil works administration.
Administrative and Support staff
8.           Critical Activities and Schedule. Key PCU Activities and Achievement Objectives ae
contained in the Performance Monitoring Indicators (Annex 7) and Implementation Schedules (Annex 9).
C. Budget
9.           Initial PCU organization and start-up funding would be provided through a Project
Preparation Facility. The initial funding is expected to be US$225,000 and would cover the cost of
Technical Assistance: Financial/Accounting and Management Specialists (3 months), A Computer



Page 112                                                                     ANNEX 6
Specialist and a Procurement Specialist (2 months); Local Experts: PCU Coordinator,
Translator/Secretary; some small items of office equipment and limited training.
10.          For project implementation, the Loan would provide an additional US$ 2,123,500 over
five years to finance consulting services in procurement and management services (US$ 1,690,700),
equipment, materials and supplies (US$ 34,300), training (US$ 50,600), and recurrent costs (US$
348,000).
D. Record Keeping, Reporting and Evaluation
11.          PCU Record Keeping. The PCU would maintain a permanent record of all formal
activities and transactions conducted with external organizations and between internal elements of the
project.
12.          Project Reporting.  The PCU would prepare a progress report of status on each
component and the total project at the end of each operational calendar quarter, i.e., January for October-
December, April for January-March, July for April-June, and October for July-September. These reports
would be prepared with inputs from the specific implementing agencies. The PCU would only
consolidate the reports and prepare a summary of main findings and recommendations (para 5.10 and
5.11). Reports would be submitted to the World Bank Project Task Manager. Details on reporting
requirements are included in Annex 5 - Implementation Mechanisms.
13.          Project Component Monitoring and Reporting. Monitoring would be carried out in four
main areas: (i) the procurement and physical delivery of goods; (ii) the physical implementation of project
activities; (iii) the financial management and control of project funds; and (iv) the institutional
development under the project. A continuous assessment would be done in the context of the
Inplementation Schedule (Annex 9) and, more specifically, the annual work programs.  Project
management at the MOL and at the oblast and city levels, and with technical assistance to be provided
under the project would establish the required Management Information System necessary for the
reporting and evaluation of these indicators. The indicators would first be defined in the work programs
and then be reported in the quarterly and annual reports along with the basis financial information.
E. Financial Management and Accounting Control
14.          Chart of Accounts. The project financial accounting transactions and reports should use
a Chart of Accounts which should be maintained through regular posting of transaction detail and monthly
development of trial balances for all accounts.
15.          Financial Status Reports. The PCU Accounting Activity should prepare a Project
Financial Status Summary each month by the 20th of the subsequent month to keep the PCU Director
informed of the status of accounts and progress against spending plans of the project.
16.          Auditing and Control of Project Assets. Annually, the project accounting and financial
records must be subjected to an independent audit by a certified professional organization or individual.
To maintain control of project assets such as capital equipment, the project should establish and maintain
a system of Equipment and Property Controls which provides for allocation of formal responsibility for
all Project Related Equipment Items through signed personal responsibility vouchers.



KAZAKHTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 7. PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
A. Employment Services Component
Sub-Component                                Perfonnance Indicator          Completion Date
Project iplementadon and Management                                                            l
Establish an Implementation Unit in DOE and  Appoint Unit Coordinator and   February 1995
arrange for orientation of relevant staff.  complete orientation.
Develop Project Implementation Manual for    Design and implement project   May 1995
distribution to key staff.                   workshop with key MOL project
officials.
Establish Project reporting requirements.    Develop in concert with PCU the  June 1995
required performance and
financial reporting procedures
and requirements including
procurement procedures.
Coordinate with PCU procurement actions for    Establish evaluation committee    June 1995
technical assistance, equipment and civil works   and review and rank proposals
rehabilitation.                              for TA.
Establish MOL working group to  June 1995
coordinate with PCU on
computerization.
Coordinate with PCU on         June 1995
Employment Offices
rehabilitation.



Page 114                                                                               ANNEX 7
(1) INSITUtIONAL STRENGTBENING
Sub-Component                            Performance Indicator            Completion Date
Management Improvement, Labor Market
and Policy Analysis
Work program for year 1 (1995):
Design and planning- for management      Documents procedures and         December 1995
training workshops                       proposals
Works program for year 2 (1996):
First set of workshops for selected managers  Training delivered; and     April 1996
at the Departmental, Oblast and Raion level   amendments to procedures
in the implementation of change; and in  documented
practicing sound financial management and
accountability for achieving their work plans
and operating within their allocated budget.
Workshops continue for all Departmental   Complete change management      June 1996
staff and for oblasts with model offices  training at national level
Provide specialist staff at the republic level   Documented procedures and  June 1996
with enhanced capacity to undertake research  advice on collecting,
on the labor market                      disseminating and analyzing labor
market information
Fellowships on labor market research      Year 1 fellowships completed    December 1996
Development of policy unit                Policy unit established         June 1996
Study tours on policy development         Study tours completed and       December 1996
recommendations made for future
work of policy unit
Work program for year 3 (1997):
Continuation of Fellowships               Fellowships complete            December 1997



ANNEX 7                                                                                  Page 115
(2) UNEMPLOYED BENEFITS AND SERVICE DELIVERY
2.1 Unemployment Benefits
Sub-Component                     Performance Indicator        Completion Date
Unemployment Benefits
Work program for year 1 (1995):
Review existing legislation and make       Policy options prepared        January 1995
appropriate policy recommendations
Review existing administrative procedures  Recommendations completed      June 1995
Develop and document revised procedures for  Documentation completed      June 1995
operation and trial in MOs 1-2
Trial of procedures in MOs 1-2             Trial complete; amendments     October 1995
documented
Work program for year 2 (1996)
Introduce new system into MOs 34 and other  Introduction complete         March 1996
offices in Oblast
Introduce new system into MOs 5-8 and other  Introduction complete        August 1996
offices in Oblast
Work program for year 3 (1997)
Introduce new system into MOs 9-13 and     Introduction complete          May 1997
other offices in Oblast
Introduce new system into MOs 14-20 and    Introduction complete          December 1997
other offices in Oblast



Page 116                                                                                  ANNEX 7
2.2 Service Delivery
Sub-Component                      Performance Indicator          Completion Date
Service Delivery
Work program for year 1 (1995)
Design and planning for MOS 1-2            Documented agreements              April 1995
Develop and document guidelines for        Documentation complete ready for   April 1995
Employment Service activities             trial
Site works for MOS 1-2                     Site works complete                May 1995
Trial of procedures MOs 1-2                Trials complete; amendments        October 1995
documented
Design and planning for MOs 3-4            Documented agreements              October 1995
Development of procedures for mass         Trial documentation complete; key   December 1995
retrenchments                              oblasts identified for trials
Work program for year 2 (1996):
Review and develop procedures and          Procedures documented; key oblasts  January 1996
practices to improve service delivery to  identified for trials
clients in remote locations
Site works for MOs 3-4                     Site works complete                January 1996
Implement MOs 3-4                          Offices implemented                March 1996
Design and planning for MOs 5-8            Documented agreements              March 1996
Site works for MOs 5-8                     Site works complete               June 1996
Trials of mass redundancy procedures and   Trials complete, amendments        June 1996
remote location procedures                 documented
Implement MOs 5-8                          Offices implemented                August 1996
Design and planning for MOs 9-13           Documented agreements              December 1996
Work program for year 3 (1997):
Site works for MOs 9-13                    Site works complete                March 1997
Implement MOs 9-13                         Offices implemented                May 1997
Design and planning for MOs 14-20          Documented agreements             July 1997
Site works for MOs 14-20                   Site works complete                October 1997
Implement MOs 14-20                        Offices implemented                December 1997



ANNEX 7                                                                                  Page 117
2.3 Computerization
Sub-Component                    Performance Indicator          Completion Date
Work program for year 1 (1995):
Review existing systems, including AIST  Initial draft strategy documented    April 1995
and other in-house systems; evaluate
proposed enhancements. Prepare draft
strategy.
Procurement documentation to be developed  Procurement documents available   December 1995
Work program for year 2 (1996):
Procurement for MOs 34 and other offices   Procurement complete          January 1996
in Oblast
Installation                             Installation complete           March 1996
Procurement for MOs 5-8 and other offices  Procurement complete          June 1996
in Oblast
Installation                             Installation complete           August 1996
Work program for year 3 (1997):
Procurement for MOs 9-13 and other      Procurement complete             March 1997
offices in Oblast
Installation                            Installation                     May 1997
Procurement for MOs 14-20 and other      Procurement complete            October 1997
offices in Oblast
Installation                            Installation                     December 1997



Page 118                                                                               ANNEX 7
2.4 Staff Training and Development
Sub-Component                    Performance Indicator        Completion Date
Staff Training and Development                                        l
Work program for year 1 (1995):
Training needs assessment             Documented assessment             April 1995
Training for MOs 1-2 and for trainers  Training complete                April 1995
Training strategy for ES office staff  Documented strategy              April 1995
Analysis of initial training          Documented amendments             December 1995
Work program for year 2 (1996):
Further development of staff training  Staff training policies documented    June 1996
policies and procedures               and training manuals comnplete
Establishment of training infrastructure    Center operations           December 1996
including training and unit training
center
Training for Model Offices 3-4 and odter  Training complete             March 1996
offices in Oblast
Training for Model Offices 5-8 and other  Training complete             August 1996
offices in Oblast
Work program for year 2 (1997):
Training for Model Offices 9-13 and   Training complete                 May 1997
other offices in Oblast
Training for Model Offices 14-20 and  Training complete                 December 1997
other offices in Oblast



ANNEX 7                                                                                  Page 119
(3) PILOT PROGRAM FOR TRAINING AND RETRAINING OF THE UNEMPLOYED
Sub-Component                      Performance Indicator          Completion Date
Work program for year 1 (1995):
Formation of Training Advisory Groups    Training Advisory Groups formed in    December 1995
each pilot oblast, work program
defined for 1996. Working group
meetings scheduled
Work program for year 2 (1996):
Training Needs Assessment                Assessment completed in each pilot    September 1996
oblast. Final report and
recommendations completed and
distributed
Review of assessment and counseling      Review completed.                   April 1996
methods and operational procedures in    Recommendations for revision        October 1996
training centers and recommend revised   presented and incorporated into
methods and procedures                  training center procedures
Staff training                           Staff training completed            December 1996
Work program for year 3 (1997):
Strengthen information and publicity    Information materials published and  April 1997
materials for training centers           distributed
Establish drop-in information centers    Drop-in center established in each  April 1997
oblast training center
Develop training ideas for micro-enterprise   Identification of collaborating non-  March 1996
management and self-employment in        government institution complete.
collaboration with non-government training   Course development complete     March 1997
institutions
Training for trainers workshop on courses    Workshops implemented           March 1997
for micro-enterprise management
Study tours on approaches to vocational  Study tours completed and           April 1997
training for the unemployed              recommendations made for future
training center activities



Page 120                                                                                   ANNEX 7
B. Social Services Component
(1) Social Services Support
Obiective: To achieve, over a five year period, increased and sustainable level of budgetary support
for cities to fmance and administer kindergartens and medical facilities.
Activity                         Performance Indicator           Completion Date
Five year declining World Bank support,    Design and approval of implementing   July 1995
and corresponding increase in municipal   arrangements between the Ministry of
contributions for city kindergartens and  Finance and participating Oblasts on
medical facilities in participating cities.  terms and conditions for transfer of
funds.
Simplified system of financial reporting   June 1995
designed and implemented for
accounting of project funds, and
analysis of local government budgets to
monitor compliance with expenditure
targets.
Annual report for each city to cover:  February 1996
- revised inventory of social assets  and yearly
- unit cost data                      thereafter
- social impact study
Mid-term report prepared on           June 1997
compliance with annual plans and
progress towards sustainability within
five year period. Bank support
expected to be less than 50% of
incremental recurrent costs.
Evaluation prepared on applicability of   June 1997
financial model to other Oblasts.
PCC reviews project implementation    June 2000
and applicability of financial model to
national strategy.
Participating cities assume full financial
responsibility for funding kindergartens   June 2000
and medical facilities.



ANNEX 7                                                                                   Page 121
(1) Institutional Support: Planning and Preparation Phase
Obiective: To assist regional and local governments to plan and prepare for taking over a substantially
enlarged social service sector and to rationalize this sector.
Activity                             Performance Indicator               Completion Date
Development of Initial Work Program 
1.1 Completion of 1995 work programs for  Detailed work programs for 1995 done and      May 1995
each city                                approved by oblast and city administrations, MOF
and Bank
Budget allocations identifying city share of social  June 1995
assets support approved
MOF and Oblast administrations approve budgets  June 1995
Special Accounts established and staff trained in   June 1995
their administration
1.2 Assessment of Investment Requirements  Preliminary civil works rehabilitation program  August 1995
prepared and approved by oblast and city
administrations
1.3 Annual Work Program for 1996         Annual Work Program for each city incorporating  September 1995
rationalization objectives, budgetary targets,
investments and training submitted to PCU
Training Needs Analysis
1.4 Management Training program          Training needs report available                September 1995
developed by PCU for Oblast and city
officials in preparing Annual Work
Programs -
1.5 Staff Training program developed by  Training needs report available                September 1995
PCU for relevant officials of kindergartens
and medical facilities in financial methods.
Initial Training                                             l
1.6 Management Training                  Training courses conducted at local sites      September 1995
1.7 Staff Training                       Staff trained                                  Ongoing
Flnancial Management Systems
1.8 Assessment of Oblast and city financial  Completion of report.                      April 1995
systems and recommendations for simplified
system of reporting.
1.9 Development of Computer              Completion of Specifications                   April 1995
Specifications



Page 122                                                                                ANNEX 7
(2) Institutional Support: Project Phase
Obiective: To assist regional and local governments to administer a sustainable social services sector.
Activity                            Performance Indicator             |   Completion Date
Management and Staff Training
2.1 Management Training              First training course to be delivered by PCU.   September 1995
Actual numbers of persons trained vs. planned.
2.2 Other Staff Training             First training course to be delivered by PCU.   August 1995
Actual number of persons vs. planned.
Financial Management Systems
2.3 Implementation of Upgraded       Installation completed.                         December 1995
Financial Systems
2.4 Training in Financial Management   Training completed.                           January 1996
System
2.5 Audit                            Accounting Firm Acceptable to Bank selected and   January 1996 and each
Special Accounts Audited.                       year thereafter
2.6 Budgetary Targets                Annual budgetary allocations which will         When budget approved
demonstrate that cities will assume an increasing  1996 and yearly
proportion of costs of maintaining kindergartens  thereafter
and medical facilities receiving support under the
Project.
2.7 Restructuring of Facilities      By nature of asset, merging and/or closing of   January 1996 and
facilities determnined to be underutilized or  yearly thereafter
inefficient. Comparison of previous and new unit
operating costs, previous and new number of
assets, and criteria used for closure or
amnalgamnation of assets. Report each year on status
of services provided by kindergartens and medical
facilities.
2.8 Unit Cost Reduction              Evidence that unit costs have been equalized among  Financial Reports
municipal-supported kindergartens and medical   January 1996 and
facilities and that cost savings have been affected.   yearly thereafter
2.9 Increased Student/Teacher Rations   Evidence that staff/student ratios have been reduced  Annual Reports 1996
by a significant degree.                        and yearly thereafter



ANNEX 7                                                                                     Page 123
ACtYitY                               Performance Indicator                 Completion Date
Annual Work Programs
2.10 Physical Rehabilitation            By nature of asset and facility, the number of assets   Annual Reports
rehabilitated, projected unit rehabilitation costs vs.    1996 and yearly
actual unit rehabilitation costs.                 thereafter
2.11 Equipment Investment               By nature of asset and facility, actual investment  Annual Reports
expenditures per unit vs. planned, including       1996 and yearly
inventory of equipment purchased in previous year    thereafter
with project funds.
2.12 Supplies                           By nature of assets, actual cost per unit vs. planned,
and inventory of supplies purchased in previous year
with project funds.
2.13 Recurrent Costs                    By nature of asset, actual recurrent cost per unit vs.  u
planned
2.14 Cost Recovery                      Evidence that the user fees have been increased to
agreed percentage of variable costs for
kindergartens, and that medical facilities will
introduce their user fees. Also, that the Govermment
authorization for collection of fees for medical
services in municipal facilities remains in effect.
Evidence that increased user fees are being collected.
2.15 Management Efficiency              Demonstrated overall unit cost reduction and
increased capacity of assets and facilities to serve
greater number of users. Production of budgets,
reports and expenditure statements in timely fashion.
2.16 Social Indicators in Sector        Total numbers of users of services provided by
assets and facilities per unit before and after project
vs. plan.
2.17 Financial Indicators in Sector     Total actual costs for each component (rehabilitation,
equipment, supplies, incremental recurrent costs) vs.
l___________________________________  planned






KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 8. SUMMARY COST TABLES
Project Cost Summary
(US$ '000)
Local     Foreign   Total         % Foreign   % Total Base
Exchange      Costs
Employment Services      6,224.6   9,597.9   15,822.6           61           32
Social Services         17,646.9  13,431.8   31,078.6           43           63
Project Coordination &    358.0   1,982.4    2,340.4            85            5
Monitoring
Total Baseline Costs   24,229.6  25,012.0   49,241.6            51           100
Physical Contingencies   465.8   1,936.3    2,402.1            81            5
Price Contingencies    1,617.3   1,400.5    3,017.7            46            6
Total Project Costs     26,312.6  28,348.8   54,661.5           52           111



Page 125                                                                                     ANNEX 8
Project Components by Year -- Investment/Recurrent Costs
(US$ '000)
Totals includina Continsencies
1996     1997     1998     1999    2000    Total
A. Employment Services
Investment Costs                         3,854.3  3,991.3  1,238.6  1,287.2  1,117.0 11,488.5
Recurrent Costs                          1.169.1  1.194.8  1.225.3  1.255.9  1.287.3  6.132.4
Subtotal Employment Services                5,023.4  5,186.2  2,463.9  2,543.1  2,404.3 17,620.9
S. Social Services
Investment Costs                         6,045.3  5,505.6  5,019.2  1,843.0  1,752.8 20,165.9
Recurrent Costs                          2.298.1  2.915.5  2.989.9  3.064.6  3.141.2 14.409.3
Subtotal Sociat Services                    8,343.5  8,421.1  8,009.0  4,907.6  4,894.0 34,575.2
C. Project Coordination & Monitoring
Investment Costs                           878.8   531.0    314.2   177.4   181.8  2,083.1
Recurrent Costs                             80.9     72.6    74.4    76.3    78.2   382.3
Subtotal Project Coordination.& Monitoring   959.7   603.5    388.6   253.6   260.0  2.465.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                         14,326.5 14,210.8 10,861.5  7,704.4  7,558.2 54,661.5
Total Investment Costs                    10,778.5 10,027.9  6,572.0  3,307.6  3,051.5 33,737.5
Total Recurrent Costs                      3,548.1  4,182.9 '4,289.5  4,396.8  4,506.7 20,924.0



ANNEX 8                                                                                               Page 126
Project Components by Year
(US$ '000)
1996     1997      1998      1999      2000    Total
1. Emptoyment Services                  4,683.1  4,669.4  2,201.6  2,216.2  2,052.2 15,822.6
2. Social Services                       7,741.9  7,665.5  7,092.4  4,350.2  4,228.7 31,078.6
3. Project Coordination & Monitoring    935.3    578.4    363.3    231.7    231.7  2.340.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                       13,360.3 12,913.3  9,657.3  6,798.0  6,512.6 49,241.6
Physical Contingencies                      697.8    730.6    511.7    239.2    222.8  2,402.1
Prico Contingencies                         268.4    566.9    692.5    667.1    822.9  3.017.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                        14,326.5 14,210.8 10,861.5  7,704.4  7,558.2 54,661.5
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                          9,080.8  8,215.9  5,138.6  3,087.6  2,826.0 28,348.8



Page 127                                                                 ANNEX 8
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Proj ect
Employment      Social    Coordination
services      Services   & Monitoring .Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                              621.9       3,401.4             -  4,023.3
B. Equipment, Materials & Supplies        8,903.7     14,221.4          S4.4 23,179.5
C. Technical Assistance & Training        1.962.9      2.543.1       2,028.7  6.534.7
Total Investment CoatB                       11,488.5     20,165.9       2,083.1 33,737.5
II. Recurrent Coxts
A. Recurrent Costs                        6.132.4     14.409.3         382.3  0
Total Recurrent Costs                         6.132.4      14.409.3        382.3 20.924.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                           17,620.9      34,575.2      2,465.4 54,661.5
Taxes 
Foreign Exchange                            10,934.8     15,330.9       2,083.1 28,348.8



ANNEX 8                                                                                       Page 128
Components by Financiers
(US$ '000)
The gnvrnnmenIt      Thg Bank        Beneficiartes          Total         For.
Amount!     r    A Anin      W      Amount      t     Ammunt      L      Exch
1. Bmployment Services                 6,151.7    34.9 11,469.1       65.1        -        - 17,620.9     32.2 10,934.8
2. Social Services                     2,363.1      4.8 27,317.7      79.0 4,894.4    14.2 34,57S.2        63.3 15,330.9
3. Project Coordination h Monitoring   1L1-2        7.6  2 279. 2     92.         -        -  2.465.4      -.5   208.3.1
Total Disbursement                         8,701.0    15.9 41,066.1      75.1 4,894.4       9.0 54,661.5    100.0 28,348.8



Pape 129                                                                                      ANNEX 8
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$ '000)
The Government_      The Rank         5unefie1iari.U         Total          For.
Amo2une     t                 I u                      Atmount     t         _EXC
i. Inves taent Costs
A. Civil Works                          186.6      4.6  3,836.7      95.4         -       -  4,023.3       7.4    613.5
B. Equipment, Materials & Supplies          -        - 23,179.5    100.0         -        - 23,179.5      42.4 21,256.7
C. Technical Assistance & Training                          3 -6.5347                        rk _   -  cS34.7 _12._A  6 478.6
Total Investment CostJ                      186.6      0.6 33,550.9       99.4        -       - 33,737.5      61.7 28,348.8
11. Recurr-nt Costs
A. Racurrent Costs                     .14,a5    40L7  7.515.2       3s.9 49 a4.4 __21LI 20 924L0  3... ..3.L
Total Recurrent Costs                     BJ14.5    40 7  7.515.2  3...  4.8944   34  20-L 24.0               3C.1
Total Disburee nt                          8,701.0    1S.9 41,066.1        75.1 4,894.4      9.0 54,661.5    100.0 28,34W8O



Employment Services Component - Project Schedule
1995           1996            1991
ID    Name                                                              Q4QI    IQ3 I Q4 Q AQ2 I Q3 I Q4   I Q2  3  Q4    I Q2
1     Projcct preparation
2         Establish Model Offices in Almaty & Pavlodar
3        Develop upgraded UB system
4         Prepare initial strategy for computer systems development
S         Develop staff training program
6         Project preparation complete
7     Institutional strengthening
8        Management improvement                                             .
9            Management workshops                                                                                                         - 
10               Design and planning of workshops                                     -
11               First set of workshops
12               Continuation of workshops                                  .
13           Development of new staffing formula
14       Development of capacity for labor market analysis                                     -
15           Analysis of needs                                              i                 _  
16              collection methods                                          .                 _                                          Q    0
17               dissemination                                              .
18               analytical techniques                                      .
19           Document revised procedures                                    .
20        Development of capacity for policy analysis
21           Establishment of policy unit
22           Preparation of Employment Law and related legislation
23        Fellowships on policy and labor miarket analysis - year 1
24        Fellowships on policy and labor market analysis - year 2
25       Institutional strengthening complete                         I  I I              I               I              t       I



Employment Services Component - Project Schedule
1995            1996     J      1997
ID    Name                                                              Qj.9I Q2 IQ3 IQlI Q2 I-3 Ii47Q-Z--TQ3Q94   1
26    Unemployment benefit and service delivery                                  - 
27        Unemployment benefits-
28           trial of operational procedures in Almaty and Pavlodar-
29           introduce procedures to Slhynikent and Karaganda
30           introduce procedures into MOs S & 8 and oblast
31           introduce procedures into MOs 9-13 and oblast
32           introduce procedures into MOs 14-20 and oblast
33        Service delivery
34           develop procedurcs for mass redundancies4
35           develop procedures for remote clients-
36           trial of developments in Alimty & Paviodar
37           design and planning for Shymk'ent & Karagandai
38           site works for Shymkent & Karagpnda
39           introduce procedures to Shymkent and Karaganda
40           design and planning for MOs 5-8
41           site works for MOs S-S 8
42            introduce procedures to MOs 5-8
43           design and planning for MOs 9-13
44   J        site works for MOs 9-13
45           introduce procedures to MOs 9-13
46           design and planning for MOs 14-201
47           site works for MOs 14-20
48            tntroduce procedures to MOs 14-20                               ____
x



Employment Services Component - Project Schedule
1995           1996            1997
ID    Name                                                             Q40      2 I 3      Ql I Q2 I Q3 I Q4 Ql I Q2 I Q3    I Q2
49        Computerization
50           develop procurement documentation
51           procure equipment for Shymkent and Karaganda
52           instal equipment in Shymkent and Karaganda                     .
53           procure equipment for MOs 5-8                                  i
54           instal equipment in MOs 5-8                                                          _
55           procure equipment for MOs 9-13                                                             -
56           instal equipment in MOs 9-13                                   .
57           procure equipment for MOs 14-20                                                                       -
58           instal equipment in MOs 14-20
59        Unemployment benefit and service delivery complete
60                                                                          .
6 1 
L~~~~~~~~



Employment Services Component - Project Schedule
1995           1996           1997
ID    Name                                                          Q4                    IQZ I Q3I Q4     I   IQ2 I Q3 
62    Staff training and development
63       Analysis of training undertaken during preparation
64       Further development of staff training policies
65       Establish training infrastructure
66       Training for Shymkent and Karaganda
67       Training for MOs 5-8
68       Training for MOs 9-13
69       Training for MOs 14-20
70       Staff training and development complete
71 1
72           .                                                          i
73    Pilot program for retraining the unemployed                       .
74       Form Training Advisory Groups                                  I
75       Undertake training needs assessment
76       Review assessment and counseling methods
77       Incorporate revisions into Training Centers                                         -
78       Staff training                                                 i
79       Develop information and publicity for Training Centers
80       Establish information centers
81       Identify institutes for micro-enterprise training
82       Undertake course development
83       Workshops for trainers in micro-enterprise management
84       Study tours
85       Pilot program complete
z
rri



ANNEX 9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 134
_. .........             ...................... .............. .......... .. ..........   ..              ... .....     ......    ............ ...                          ... ..............
_ .  ..... . ................ ................. ........................... ........ ...... _. .. ... .. . . .............. . ................                         .....................   .... 
_u                                                   . .   ......... ,,. .......__  ._ ..........
o0  . N
z     a     _                                                      .  ......... . ............. .  _._ . ......  . . ....... . .......................... ~.  . ..                 ..... . 
j:   0    _                                        ;3    ;                                                                                                    ;3 
E 0  n   I I                                     
z           N
6,
ILl 
pCU)
I                ~                   ~                      ~~                                                ~~~~~~~~~~Ii I,INC ;d~ 



Page 135                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ANNEX 9
_ _ ._ ...................,..........   _.................................................................................                                              ................................
w                .   .  ..  ....................    ............ ...._ _.   ...... . ..........................., ...................                                                        ...................... . ........ . ....
) a.
UU
Z-                                                                                               A N_ || 
m                                                                                                                               . . . --,.v,-,- ,=-
us                                                                  X                                                                                             11
Zib|L ||
L NWW'
c-
5
oz
ww  Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1
I-c)I dIa;I                                               P~Ic 'N                    -l                       I  ID          -1         I                     



ANNEX 9                                                                                                                                                                                             Pare 136
D .             .... ............................. .....   ................ .   ................ ... ...    . ......... ................ ........._._. ...... ....... ... ...
V
0 z EgtgSfi        
uJ
E        2i  .        .............. = r ::r. ..   ..............................................rr.-."  .......r.:...... ... rr....r.. ::....   ....
-                                                                                                                                                        Eu
a0  0          -   -....                           .........    .. ..                          ......     . ....  ............a.. . . . . ...
F0 U   _ '
. ) < Z
15~~111
.4            wi    L                      I       1-IJ1  1Ici   jJId_:I  'wI  I



Pape 137                                                                                                                                                                                                        ANNEX 9
N
_ .       ................................  ....... ...................
a,
o          .  ............ .  ......    .... ....................... . ....
U        Z          .......... .  -.- .......  ..............   ."........
a     -                           X -                           D _
-U N
w    -
-I
00
zz  -A
si-                                                            .............
Z U)
z



KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 10. PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN'
Mission            Character of Mission              Mission Staffing           SWS
Dates
06/95       Project Launching                 Task Manager                         3
Financial Manag. Specialist          3
Proc/Disb. Specialist                3
ES Specialist                        3
Economist                            3
FY95                                                                              15
09/95       First Supervision Mission         Task Manager                         3
(after Effectiveness)            Hospital Manag. Specialist           2
Training Specialist                  2
Financial Manag. Specialist          2
Economist                            2
12/95       Second Supervision Mission        Task Manager                         3
Kindergarten Specialist              2
ES Specialist                        2
Information Tech. Specialist         2
Economist                            2
03/96       Third Supervision Mission         Task Manager                         2
Financial Manag. Specialist          2
Procurement Specialist               2
Economist                            2
06/96        Fourth Supervision Mission       Task Manager                         2
Kindergarten Specialist              2
ES Specialist                        2
Medical Equip/Supplies Specls.       2
Training Specialist                  2
Economist
FY96                                                                              40
10     FY totals include field/headquarters time. A local human resource economist to be recruited in the Resident Mission would
participate in mnissions and would handle day-to-day supervision.



Pape 139                                                                       ANNEX 10
Mission           Character of Mission             Mission Staffing         SWS
Dates
10/96          Fifth Supervision Mission   Task Manager                        3
Financial Manag. Specialist        2
Hospital Manag. Specialist         2
Economist                          2
02/97          Sixth Supervision Mission    Task Manager                       2
ES Specialist                      2
Training Specialist                2
Economist                          2
06/97        Seventh Supervision Mission    Task Manager                       2
(just before mid-term review)    Financial Manag. Specialist      2
Hospital Manag. Specialist         2
ES Specialist                      2
Economist                          2
FY97                                                                          27
10/97       Eight Supervision Mission       Task Manager                       3
(to review action plan following    Financial Mang. Specialist     2
mid-term review)               ES Specialist                       2
Economist                          2
02/98       Ninth Supervision Mission       Task Manager                       2
Information Tech. Specialist       2
Training Specialist                2
Economist                          2
06/98       Tenth Supervision Mission       Task Manager                       2
Financial Manag. Specialist        2
ES Specialist                      2
Economist                          2
FY98                                                                          25



ANNEX 10                                                                         Page 140
Mission            Character of Mission            Mission Staffing         SWS
Dates
12/98       Eleventh Supervision Mission   Task Manager                        3
Financial Mang. Specialist         2
ES Specialist                      2
Hospital Mang. Specialist          2
06/99       Twelveth Supervision Mission    Task Manager                       3
Financial Manag. Specialist        2
Kindergarten Specialist            2
ES Specialist                      2
FY99                                                                          18
12/99       Thirteenth Supervision Mission    Task Manager                     3
Financial Manag. Specialist        2
ES Specialist                      2
Economist                          2
06/2000     Last Supervision prior to PCR   Task Manager                       3
Hospital Mang. Specialist          2
Financial Mang. Specialist         2
Training Specialist                2
FYO
18






ANNEX 11                                                                                                  Pat, 141
KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 11. ESTIMATED IBRD DISBURSEMNT
GOK          ye      16             1997      J            I                                           21
Siesa                            1        2       1        2        1      2 _               2               2
Pkr S2ma0 2                    2.1       2.5    4.0      3.4      6.0      4.3      6.0     4.2      2.4    1.7
cuIui,e        I 2      4.5   6.6       9.1    13.1      16.5    22.5    26.8  I32.8    37.0    39.4   41.1
Cuauuve (M       4.9   11.0   16.1    22.1   31.9        40.2     54.8    65.2  j79.8   190.0    95.9       100






KAZAKHSTAN
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX 12. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Table 12.A: Detailed Procurement Arrangements
ProJed  lemet                                           bIteronal              O4her             Not  nk 
Competitive dl4g   _ctlae d 
1. CivI Works'
Health Facilhies Renovations                                               1.60
(1.60)
Kindergarten Renovations                                                   1.80
(1.80)
Model Ofrices Renovation                                                   0.44               0.19
__________________________________________                  ~~~(0.44)
2. GoodO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;.' VA ....$Sg  ^.VS
Medical Equioment                                     3.93                1.00
(3.93)              (I2.00)
Office Equipment                                      7.28                1.82
(7.28)              (1.82)
Medical Supplies                                      4.60                2.15
(4.60)              (1.15)
Kindergarten Supplies                                 2.65                0.70
(2.65)              (D.70W
3  Consulanciers'
Policy Support                                                             0.08
Implenmenation Support                                                      4.34
(4.34)
Capacity Building                                                          0.48
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~(0.48)
4. Training
In-country                                                                 0.49
(0.49)
Study Tours/Fellowships                                                    0.70
(0.70)
5. Incremental Recurrent Costs'
Social Serices Component                                                  7.34                7.41
(7.34)
Employment Seriee Component                                               017                5.97
(0.17)                          I    - _ ___ _s(02-
PPF                                                                        0.50
_________           ~~~~(0.50)                               00
TOTAL                                                      18.46               22.61               13.64           VS4
BANK                                                      (18.46)                .6i)
Figures it parenthese ar te respective unounta financed by dte Dank. FIgure may not toWl due to trundg.
3         National Shopping (NS) and Dirt Contacting in accordance with World Bank Guidelines.
I          Icludes Linited International Biddin  (LIB) purchases fbr limited-source medicl equipment and conputer and software
procumnent (US$2 . million), International Shopping (IS) for off-die-shelf itens (USS1 I million), and NS for klndeaen and
trining supplies (US$0.7 million) ia uccordance with World Bank Otiidelines.
3         Consuking Servics would be procured in accordance with Rank Guidelinc: Use of Consultants 1981
4            hIncdes rational shopping ad sole-source procurement bused on the nabre of the items and the cuent practices of die
Borrower which the Bank has found to be satisfactory.



Page 143                                                                                                                                     ANNEX 12
Table 12.B: Detailed Procurement Plan
Cateory                I of t       Lan 1   ndr      NBF      Total (US0001                           Note
|  dthod)              Contracts     (USOOO                I             -
Civil Works
*- HledIh as)             40          1,600    |                  1,600      Simplified Bidding Documents to be developed by PCU
| -Bducedou (LS)          40          1,800                |      1,800      dito
- MOSP (IS)               20            440          190          630        ditto
Equipatsat and
materials
- Medical                  3          3,930-                     3,930
Equoet (ICB)
-MedkCl                   4             700                        700
Bqmu_t (I                                                                         _ _           _         _ _           _
- Medical               Seveal          300                        300
Bquiment(S)                    ._ _ .
- Medical Supplis         4           4,600                      4,,600
(I CB)                                                                            .. 
|  Medical Supplies       4             750                        750
(I-III)                               __        I_
- Medical Supphes       Several         400                        400
(IS)
- Ofice                    3          7,200                      7,200
Equipnent (ICB)
-Office                   3           1,420                      1,420
Equlmet  _LIB)_-_--
- Office                Several         480                        480
Eqpent (IS)                                                               
- Kindergam                3          2,680                      2,680
Suppl CE) .CB                                                             ,
- Kindegt               Several         610                        670
Supplies_(IS)
-Traiwn                    1            75                          75
Materis (ICB)
- Training              Several         25                          75
Matera ls IS)
Consuh nts (hIdividuals)   10           200                        200       Based on technical qualificatksm and relevant experience
Conduutts (FIrms)          2           4,700                      4,700      Two stage procurement pmcedure to be used
(Short List)
Tuilnng
- Incotntry (DC)        Several        490                         490
- Felow (DC)            Sever l         700                        700
lecrrat Cod_
-Emp.Scr. ()             SOBs           170        5,970  J      6,140
- Soc.Ser. (aS)         SOEs          7,340         7,4S0        14,820



ANNEX 12                                                                                                                                        Page 144
Table 12.C: Procurement Schedule
Major Activitles Schedule (Dates)
Category            Pacwage          Estimated Cod        Procurement
(US$000)             Method           Issue Docs.      Blds/Pro.Rec'd.       Contract.Signed         Start/DeIver'
Civil Works          Health              1,600                 LS           Simplified Bidding Documents will be developed by dhe PCU. Local Shopping procedures
using local contractors would be utilized. (Re: para. 4.9 - Volume I of SAR). Work would
Education            1,800                LS           be expected to commence in early 1996.
MOSP                400                  LS
Consultants         Emp.Serv.            1,900          Bank Guidelines'        3/95                7/95                  9/95                   9195
for selection of
consultants
Proj.Mngt/           3,500          Bank Guidelines          3/95               5/95                   9/95                  9/95
SocSer.TA                           for selection of
consultants
.zoods              Med. EQ              3,930                ICB             9/95(113)            11/95                  12/95                  1/96
11/96(113)            1/97                  2/97                  3/97
1 1/97(1/3)           1/98                  2/98                   3/98
700                 LIB             9/95(1/3)            11/95                  1/96                  2196
11/96(1/3)            1197                  3/97                  4/97
11/97(1/3)            1/98                  3/98                  4/98
300                 is             9/95(1/2)             11/95                 12195                  1/96
11/96(1/2)            1/97                  2/97                  3/97
Med.Suppls            4.600                ICB             10/95(1/3)           12/95                  1196                   2/96
750                 LIB             11/96(113)            1/97                  3/97                  4/97
1 1197(1/3)           1/98                  3198                  4/98
400                 IS             10/95(1/2)            12/95                  1/96                  1U96
11/96(1/2)           1/97                  3/97                  4197
Office EQ            7,200                ICB             12/95(1/3)            2/96                  4196                   4/96
12/96(1/3)            2/97                  4/97                  4/97
12/97(1/3)            2/98                  4/98                  4/98
1,420                LIB            12/95(113)            2/96                   4/96                  4196
12/96(1/3)            2/97                  4/97                  4/97
12/97(1/3)            2/98                  4/98                  4/9S
400                 Is             12/95(1/2)            2/96                  4196                   4/96
12/96(1/2)            2/97                  4/97                  4/97
Short list for fimrs and/or competitive selection for individual consultants.



Page 145                                                                                                                                      ANNEX 12
Major Activities Schedule (Dates)
Category             Package        FEimated Cot           Procurereent
(US$000)             Method           Is.ee Docs.       BldsLPro.Rec'd.       Contract.Signed         Start/DelIver'
Kind.Suppls           2,680                 ICB             1/96(1/3)             3196                   5/96                  5196
1/97(1/3)            3/97                   5/97                   5197
1/98(1/3)            3/98                   5/98                   5/98
670                 LS              1/96(1/2)             3/96                  5/96                   5/96
1/97(1/2)            3/97                   5/97                   5/97
Trng . Mater .           75                 ICB               1196                3/96                   5/96                  5/96
25                 LS           1/96 - Several transactions
Training            Incountry              450                  DC           1/96 - Several transactions
Fellowships            640                  DC           1/96 - Several transactions
Emp.Serv.              170           LS and sole source   Note: Includes local shopping and sole-source procurement based on the nature of the items
Rectrrent            M&C'                  190               - see note      and the current practices of the Borrower which the Bank has found to be satisfactory (re:
Costs                                                                        para. 4.13 of Volume I of SAR and note below).
Soc. Serv.            7,150          LS and sole source   Several transactions on a monthly/quarterly/annual basis. Procurement will be carried out by
- see note     local entities Reimbursement will be based upon percentage of unit costs approved for each
i____________  .____________                                                  institution in AWP. Retroactive financing authorized from January 1995.
(M:\HANAN\Kazanexs.gry)
7/        MonitDring and coordination unit.















