Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22944-NIR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 31.3 MILLION
(US$38.72 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR THE
PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION
PROJECT
February 21, 2002
Rural Development II
Country Department 13
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 15, 2002)
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
CFAF 100 = US$0.143
US$1 = 700 CFAF
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          African Development Bank
AHA          Amenagement hydroagricoles (Irrigated perimeters)
ANPIP        Association nigerienne pour la promotion de l'irrigation privge
(Nigerien Association for the Promotion of Private Irrigation).
ASAPI        Projet d'appui a la securite alimentaire par la petite irrigation
(Project for support to food security through micro-irrigation)
CAP          Community Action Program
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
CILSS        Comite inter-etats de lutte contre la sdcheresse au Sahel
(Inter-state committee for drought mitigation in the Sahel)
CSO          Comite de suivi et d'orientation (Oversight and Monitoring Committee)
EA           Environmental Assessment
EEC          European Economic Community
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization
FCFA         Franc CFA
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GIE          Groupement d'interet economique (Economic Interest Groups)
GNP          Gross National Product
GON          Government of Niger
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural Development
INRAN        Institut national de recherches agronomiques du Niger
(National Institute for Agricultural Research)
IRR          Internal rate of return
LACI         Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCS          Least-Cost Selection
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MFI          Micro-finance institution
MCPEC        Mouvement des caisses populaires d'epargne et de credit.
MDR          Ministere du Developpement Agricole (Ministry of Agricultural Development)



MDR           Ministere du Developpement Agricole (Ministry of Agricultural Development)
NBA           Niger Basin Authority
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NPV           Net Present Value
ONAHA         Office national des amenagements hydroagricoles
(National office for irrigated perimeters)
PDSFR         Programme de developpement des systemes financiers ruraux
(Program for the development of rural financial systems)
PHRD          Special Fund for Policy and Human Resources Development
PIM           Project Implementation Manuel
PIP2          Private Irrigation Promotion project
PMR           Project Management Report
PPF           Project preparation facility
PPIP         (Projetpilote de promotion de l'irrigation privee)
Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project
PROMEX       Projet promotion des exportations
(Export promotion project)
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSSA         Programme special pour la securit alimentaire
(FAO's special program for food security)
QBS           Quality-Based Selection
QCBS          Quality Cost-Based Selection
TOR           Terms of reference
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Director:  Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager:  Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader:   Daniel Sellen






NIGER
PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     12
3. Benefits and target population                                                    13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         20
2. Financial                                                                         21
3. Technical                                                                        21
4. Institutional                                                                     22
5. Environmental                                                                     25
6. Social                                                                            26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                27
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   29



2. Critical risks                                                                     29
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    30
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           31
2. Other                                                                              31
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          31
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         31
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          32
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    36
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         44
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   45
Annex 5: Financial Sumnmary                                                              49
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       50
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     58
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   59
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  61
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            62
Annex I 1: Monitoring and evaluation summary                                             64
Annex 12: Executive summary of the environmental assessment                              67
Annex 13: Letter of sector policy                                                        72
MAP(S)
IBRD 31727: Zones of project intervention



NIGER
Private Irrigation Promotion
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTR2
Date: February 21, 2002                          Team Leader: Daniel M. Sellen
Country Director: Antoinette M. Sayeh            Sector Manager: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project ID: P072996                              Sector(s): AI - Irrigation & Drainage
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $38.72
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: n/a                             Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      6.46          0.00          6.46
IDA                                                          27.12          11.60        38.72
FRANCE, GOV. OF (EXCEPT FOR MIN. OF FOREIGN                   1.00          0.00          1.00
AFFAIRS-MOFA)
LOCAL FARMER ORGANIZATIONS                                    2.21           0.00         2.21
Total:                                                       36.79          11.60        48.39
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF NIGER
Responsible agency: ASSOCIATION NIGERIENNE DE PROMOTION DE L'IRRIGATION PRIVtE
Address: P.O Box 507, Niamey, Niger
Contact Person: Mr. Amadou Allahoury, Director General
Tel: (227) 733807 / 736873         Fax: (227) 736293           Email: anpip@intnet.ne
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2003       2004       2005     2006       2007
Annual    6.70        6.60      7.70       8.60      9.12
Cumulative    6.70      13.30      21.00     29.60     38.72
Project implementation period:
Expected effectiveness date: 09/02/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Private Irrigation Promotion Project (PIP2) is to increase production and profitability
of high-value, irrigated crops by private, smallholder farmers with simple, low-cost technologies.
PIP2 will build on and expand on the success of the Pilot Private Irrigation Project (PPIP), which began in
1996 ended in December, 2001. Both projects are aimed at capitalizing on Niger's comparative advantage
in production of several irrigated commodities. This is done through developing and disseminating
improved low-cost technologies (mainly manual pumps and tube wells), along with a supporting package of
training, financial, and technical assistance. Beneficiaries of both projects are poor smallholder farmers
organized in common interest groups, who are served by an umbrella organization (an NGO), which also
implements the project. Other project beneficiaries include private service providers who support irrigation
development, such as local artisans and micro-finance institutions.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The development objective will be measured within project areas in terms of percentage increase in yields,
total production, and percentage increase in profitability of irrigated production, based on project statistics
and beneficiary assessments. Detailed farm budgets will be prepared in the first year of the project to serve
as baseline upon which to measure changes in farm income and profitability. Net retums from adoption of
new technology are discussed in this document's economic analysis. In addition, there are a variety of
related physical indicators including number of beneficiaries, and land under irrigation. The following table
demonstrates cumulative increases in key project indicators, summarizing projections contained in
preparation studies. New hectares brought into the project are based on an assumption of 0.3 ha per
farmer, and production assumes an average yield of 20 metric tonnes per hectare (with the caveat that
yields are highly variable depending on the type of crop, i.e. lettuce yields are far lower than onions).
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4      Year 5
Number of plots In project           4,480    11,018     19,418     28,906     38,906
Total area in project (ha)           1,550     3,670      6,260      9,225      12,300
Production from new pumps (MT)    21,400     38,800    61,600      89,400    117,400
Production from improved plots (MT)  7,100   15,800    26,100      37,550     50,000
Total production (MT)               28,500    54,600     87,700    126,950     167,400
The key indicators for the development objective at the end of the project will be (i) a increase by 50
percent of the yields and total irrigated production in the project's zones of intervention with respect to
current levels; (ii) growth by 35 percent of the profitability of irrigated production. For the project outputs,
the indicators are that (i) 75 percent of farmers participating in the project successfully adopt at least one of
the new technologies promoted by the project; (ii) 80 percent of the producer associations involved with the
project will be trained in administrative and financial management; (iii) 50 percent of farmers involved in
the project are trained in techniques of production, storage, and processing of irrigated crops; (iv) the
number of farmers who are members of project-related micro-finance institutions triples; (vi) the
participation of women in the project zones increases by 50 percent over current levels.
- 2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22958-NIR Progress Report Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/20/01
The overall goal of Bank assistance to Niger is to reduce the number of poor people through sustainable
and equitable economic growth. The CAS document considers conservation and management of Niger's
scarcest resource -- water -- as one of the three pillars of the development strategy. A water resource
management review (20705-NIR; June 30, 2000) was initiated under this CAS, with a view to synthesizing
government progress in this respect and making recommendations for the World Bank to be involved in
encouraging more efficient and equitable water management. This project document builds from many of
the recommendations of this review, which argues that "in a water-scarce environment like in Niger, it is
essential to organize the irrigation sub-sector to ensure regulation and monitoring of water use, to promote
better agricultural techniques, and to test the decentralization strategy in an environment that promotes the
creation of users' associations." The two other CAS pillars (human capital development and exploitation of
regional growth opportunities) are also supported by this project: the first through building capacity in
groups of farmer/irrigators, and the second through promotion of exports of irrigated crops to meet the
large sub-regional demand.
The FY02 CAS Progress Report - IDA/R2001-0171 - October 30, 2001 recognizes the success of PPIP,
particularly its effectiveness in working at the local level with the private sector and civil society. The
report also highlights the need to capitalize on sources of growth in this poorest of countries. Irrigated
production may be the most important and stable such source for Niger in the foreseeable future, given the
downward trend in uranium prices and highly volatile cereal and livestock production.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues:
Rural poverty: The UNDP considers Niger the second poorest country in the world. It appears to be
getting poorer -- the current per capita GDP is less than half of its level 20 years ago. Four out of five
Nigeriens live in rural areas, and two thirds of these live in absolute poverty. The livelihoods and prospects
for rural households are tightly bound to agriculture, which provides the vast majority of employment,
food, and income. Despite the large share of public investment financing devoted to rural development,
agricultural GDP grew at an annual average rate of only 0.9 percent in real terms in the period 1966-96,
mainly from increasing the area under cultivation. With the fastest growing population in the world, this
has meant an annual decline in per capita agricultural GDP by about two percent, and an alarming increase
in the number of households lacking food security.
Dependence on rainfall: Agriculture, in tum, is primarily constrained by water availability. Most
Nigeriens rely on millet and sorghum as staples, which are at the mercy of low and highly variable
precipitation. Unlike other Sahelian countries, which have experienced productivity gains in cereals, yields
of Nigerien staples are small and declining. Much of Niger is suitable only for pastoralism and the livestock
sector is the second most important economic activity for the poor. While the arid environment keeps most
diseases at bay, weather fluctuations and water scarcity are constant threats to production, with fifty
percent drops in the size of the national herd recorded in the droughts of 1973 and 1984.
The importance of rainfed crops and livestock means that the Nigerien economy and the well-being of the
population are highly vulnerable to variation in precipitation. GDP growth has been negative in 10 of the
last 30 years largely as a result of inadequate rainfall. In normal years, 10 percent of land area receives
- 3 -



more than 350 mm of rain, and only one percent receives more than 600 mm. Long-term prospects are not
encouraging; the trend in average'rainfall has been decreasing for the last 30 years. Access to ground or
surface water is limited to water courses, all of which (except one) are shared with other countries. The
Niger river is the only permanent source of water, and even this has been known to dry up completely. Lake
Chad was once present in Niger, but has retreated across the border into Chad.
Irrigation potential: Eighty-two percent of total water use in Niger is for agriculture. Currently, 80,000
hectares are irrigated, of which one-sixth is fully irrigated, with the remainder used to grow off-season
crops. Despite the scarcity of rain and surface water, there exist immense groundwater resources which
remain largely untapped. Less than one fourth of the potentially irrigable area is currently used. Niger has
numerous zones with shallow and highly productive sandy aquifers including the Dallol Bosso, Dallol
Maouri, Tarka Valley, Goulbi N'Kaba (Maradi), the Kouramas (Zinder), and oases near Goure and even as
far north as Air. However, these zones are not always well served with supporting infrastructure or access
to markets. Also, some areas are populated by Fulani herders who have limited interest in crop production.
Sixty percent of irrigable potential is located in the Niger river valley, where farmers depend on the surface
water from the river and its tributaries. However, many who live in the area are not close enough to obtain
water directly from the river, and the soils have low hydraulic conductivity, where the thickness of the
aquifer is limited and underlain by rock. As Niger has domain over only a small section of the river, there
are intemational implications for use of surface water (see section 7.2 on safeguard policies).
Despite notoriously poor agricultural statistics in Niger, there are clear indications of robust growth in
irrigated production while rainfed agriculture has stagnated. Irrigated areas have quadrupled in the last ten
years. Although 99 percent of cultivated land is rainfed, the value of irrigated production is 10 percent of
the total, with promising possibilities for sustained growth. Niger enjoys comparative advantage in several
commodities, particularly with respect to the huge coastal and Nigerian markets to the south. These include
higher value crops such as onions, peppers, carrots, cabbages, garlic, rice, and cotton. Competitiveness
indicators show that irrigated crops are more competitive than rainfed crops or livestock (Domestic
Resource Cost coefficients for onion, pepper, and rice systems range between 0.21 and 0.61). A detailed
discussion of markets and market potential for Nigerien exports may be found in the Project Appraisal
Document for the Agro-pastoral Export Promotion project and its associated preparation documents.
Irrigation management practices: A variety of irrigation practices may be found in Niger. These may be
classified as (i) large-scale perimeters, (ii) off-season schemes and schemes for collection of run-off water,
and (iii) private smallholder irrigation.
*   The large-scale perimeters, known as amenagements hydroagricoles (AHA) are managed by the state
irrigation agency (ONAHA), and are located in the Niger River valley, the Maggia, the Goulbi Maradi,
and the Komadougou. More than 50 plots, constituting about 13,500 ha, have been developed but 40
percent of this area is unusable because of inadequate water supply. Investmnent costs of large-scale
irrigation are very high and require foreign assistance. Much of the production from AHAs is rice and
cotton production for domestic use or export.
*   Off-season schemes and water harvesting constitute partial irrigation management and are administered
by the services of the Ministry of Agricultural Development, notably the department of Genie Rural
(small works). These are implemented in traditionally exploited sites, and often set up to incorporate
farm households affected by drought. Runoff management is seen as a logical response to water
scarcity, and a way to increase water recharge and storage and avoid erosion, sedimentation, soil
quality depletion through leaching of nutrients, and loss of retained soil moisture. The new Special
Program of the President foresees construction of 100 small dams in this respect.
- 4 -



*   Private irrigation is managed by ANPIP (Niger Agency for Private Irrigation Promotion) since 1996 as
the pilot phase of the proposed project, and constitutes a wide range of irrigation technologies, but
focussing largely on treadle pumps and tube wells. Much of the production from these small plots
(which rarely exceed 0.5 hectares) is horticulture for home use, local marketing, and exports.
Agricultural services: Extension to promote private irrigation is confronted with multiple challenges.
Water collection and distribution is technically difficult in an arid environment despite major efforts
towards adapting the equipment to the Sahelian conditions. Small-scale irrigation technologies in Niger are
typically rudimentary. The vast majority of farners use outmoded techniques that are labour-intensive,
waste water, and may cause soil degradation through water logging and salinization. The technologies for
water lifting are such that this constitutes the most time consuming single operation in traditional irrigated
agriculture. Irrigation infrastructures such as dikes are destroyed annually for lack of protection. Farmers
waste large amounts of water through conveyance losses, especially in sandy soils. Traditional wells
require periodic redigging and cannot penetrate significantly into the aquifer because the saturated sand
collapses. Salinization can become a problem if the application rates of water before the growing season
are not sufficient to leach salts from the soil. Despite these problems, Nigerien gardeners tend to be very
experienced in field layout and gravity irrigation systems.
Technical support of farmers for irrigation promotion is limited by a scarcity of resources and skills. Field
surveys show that farmers are poorly equipped to select appropriate crops to meet production and
marketing objectives. Few technical packages target intensive production systems (with the exception of
onions). Farm management is often inadequate, increasing the risks associated with investments towards
farming development. Agricultural research and extension in Niger is extremely limited due to capacity and
resource constraints, which became particularly acute after the closing of IDA-funded projects in these
domains. This lack of appropriate or sufficient agricultural services often leads to failure of development
efforts, at a high cost to subsistence farmers, which constitute the majority population in rural Niger.
Land and water tenure: Tenure of smallholdings is not thought to be a major constraint to irrigation
development, despite the fact that existing land laws are not put in practice. On March 2, 1993 the country
adopted decree 93-015, providing the guiding principles of the rural legal code. In its Article 5, the Decree
states that "rights exercised on natural resources, whether from customary or modem law, enjoy similar
protection". The option of giving equal weight to both sources of law, which is uncommon in Africa,
facilitates closer integration of the two and better protects customary rights. In the long term, this law
constitutes progress in a society where the market is rapidly broadening, and transition from customary to
modem law provides holders of both rights with more effective protection under the law. Land Tenure
Commissions (which will eventually be installed in all districts and communes) are expected to issue
affordable land deeds that will be registered in the dossier rural, becoming eventually a repository for all
future transactions. Furthermore, the unilateral private agreement or the bilateral agreement established by
an administrative or judicial authority will provide a conclusive protection to the holders of such deeds.
With respect to water resources, the (March 2, 1993) Decree 93-014 -- modified by the (December 7,
1998) Law 98-041-- and its implementing provisions should allow the implementation of the rural code's
main directives in the area of water resources, in particular the enforcement and protection of existing
rights. However, the law in its current form still has many shortcomings, which prevents it from providing
water management and irrigation with clear directives. Because it is ill-adapted and incomplete, the Decree
93-014 has not be made effective.
Access to inputs: Access to financing is a major constraint to development of the sub-sector, where fewer
than three percent of rural Nigeriens have access to credit. There are no rural development banks for credit,
- 5 -



and private commercial banks are generally not interesting in supplying credit for agriculture, particularly
for periods of more than a year, given that droughts create large covariant risk. Most producers have
limited capital and no collateral. Because they are not organized, they are unable to pool resources to
acquire bank loans and make investments for collective benefit. A new IFAD project (PDSFR) is now
beginning to address this problem by consolidating and strengthening a network of decentralized
micro-finance institutions (MFIs). Access to irrigation equipment, spare parts, and repair services
traditionally been poor but has improved significantly in recent years. The markets for seeds and fertilizer
have been liberalized and equipment for small-scale irrigation and spare parts for hand pumps are exempt
from duties.
Marketing and producer organization: Niger is relatively isolated from markets by poor marketing
infrastructure. The network of rural roads is particularly poor, with important implications for farmers'
timely access to markets, as well as the ability of extension agents and input suppliers to reach clients.
Transport problems and lack of storage facilities are reflected in wide seasonal price fluctuations and heavy
post-harvest losses. The lack of appropriate post-harvest storage technology results in the loss of
nutritional qualities and prevent products from being marketed at prices acceptable by producers. A survey
done as part of the pilot project found that very few gardeners reported that they could not sell their
produce, but they did note that there were large variations in the prices they would receive. Farming is still
poorly professionalized, despite numerous groups, associations and federations that are attempting to
organize under the aegis of projects and local initiatives. At the initiative of the CILSS, for example, a
regional federation of farmers' organizations has been created. However these organizations do not have the
capacity to provide a level of services that meets the needs of their membership. While there are some
producer and water-use organizations, there are virtually no associations for marketing agricultural
products in Niger. There is therefore a need to organize operators for them to better understand markets,
and develop adequate packaging, processing, drying, and storage as a way to exploit market conditions and
reduce crop losses. This is the objective of PIP2's sister project, IDA's Agro-pastoral Export Promotion
project, which is expected to complement and support the activities of PIP2 (anid vice-versa).
Government Strategy:
The Government of Niger's (GoN) long-term goal in the agricultural sector is to promote sustainable
growth in order to meet the demand of an increasing population, while improving food security, alleviating
poverty, and increasing exports. Irrigation is widely believed to play a central role in achieving this goal.
GoN has repeatedly announced plans to decentralize the management of water resources by transferring
greater responsibilities to local communities, and to foster private sector participation and development.
While GoN has taken important concrete steps to develop strategies for water and irrigation, it lacks the
financial means to manage its water resources adequately.
In 1993 (with an update in 1997) Niger adopted a Master Plan for the development and management of its
water resources. Strategies to meet the objective of putting water at the forefront of the national
development agenda included, among other things, decentralization, community mobilization for water
resource planning, creation of seven basin-level management units, and a National Water Commission,
with a permanent technical secretariat, to lead national and regional water resource planning, development
and management. Since then, GoN has undertaken a ten-year process of preparing a water resource
management investment strategy, the National Water Program (Programme Hydraulique National, PHN,
1999) which outlines a strategy to 2010. The key elements of the PHN are (i) an improved knowledge of
water resources, (ii) improvement of water supply, including better sanitation, (iii) support to water-based
productive sectors, notably irrigation, and (iv) adoption of an institutional and legal framework. Support to
private irrigation development and demand-driven, community or producer-based investment funds are a
- 6 -



central feature of the PHN's strategy for promoting irrigation. The investment proposal, however, fails to
estimate the cost and benefits and lacks a prioritized and realistic investment program given resource
constraints.
With specific reference to irrigation, GoN received assistance from the FAO and World Bank in 2000 and
produced a sub-sector strategy: "Strategies Nationale de Developpement de l'Vrrigation et de Collecte des
Eaux de Ruisellement". The short- and medium-term objectives are to improve productivity and
profitability investments in irrigation. In the long-term, the intention is to promote national food security
and the productive capacity of Niger's natural resources. The vision for 2015 is an irrigation sector that is
(i) driven and managed by the operators themselves, with a reformed "back-seat" role for the State, (ii)
low-cost with complete water management, (iii) fully evaluated in terms of economic costs and benefits,
and (iv) environmentally sustainable. A strategy validation workshop took place in February 2001.
Rural development in general, and irrigation development in particular, are important features of the
Government's newly adopted PRSP. PIP2 is the first IDA project to go to Board in the post-PRSP period.
A letter of sector policy that relates PIP2 to the national irrigation strategy and the PRSP is attached in
Annex 14.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
PIP2 is designed to address government's major objectives in the sector: (i) intensification and
diversification of irrigated production to improve food security; (ii) private sector development and
empowerment of farmers associations and other agricultural organizations; (iii) availability of sustainable
financial arrangements in rural areas; and (iv) the creation of a production environment that is
environmentally sustainable and socially equitable. The following strategic choices and design principles
have been adopted to attain these objectives:
* Strengthening the role of private small irrigation in achieving national objectives. The project will
emphasize the promotion of private irrigation above other options mentioned above, which generally
call for government intervention (large state-managed perimeters, off-season community schemes and
runoff management). As such, this choice provides explicit support government decision that all future
irrigation schemes will have to be managed by their operators, following a realignment of the public
sector towards provision of public goods (i.e. policy formulation and monitoring, control, statistics,
infrastructure investment, etc.). However, the project will test private management of some ONAHA
perimeters to accelerate Governments intentions in this respect.
*   Strengthening the private sector andfarmers' organizations. Encouraged by the positive results
achieved in the first phase of the project, government has confirmed its support to entrusting the full
management of the PIP2 to a private operator (ANPIP), who will subcontract project activities to other
private sector operators whenever possible. At the same time, the project will help strengthen farmers'
organizations to facilitate integration into the market economy by reducing transaction costs and taking
appropriate actions to mitigate risks. In particular, the project will build substantial human and
financial capacity among farmers' organizations to help them obtain the services they need, such as
advisory support, procurement of capital goods, input supply, access to financing, marketing of their
products, representation and lobbying. Given the range of needs, several types of organizations will be
made eligible for project assistance. These include representative associations, economic interest
groups (groupements des interets commun, GIE), savings and loans associations, and others.
*   Promoting the capitalization offarmers andfarmers' organizations. The project financing component
(a matching grant facility) will provide farmers and farmers' organizations with the ability to acquire
-7 -



irrigation equipment and related inputs required to improve productivity and to increase incomes. In a
context where credit institutions have generally failed to meet expectations (with the exception of the
recently created network of micro-finance institutions (MFIs)) and where the financing of agriculture
by commercial banks is almost nonexistent, the project will seek to further develop MFIs by channeling
grants through their networks and by establishing sustainable financial arrangements to meet producers'
needs. The projects will also contribute to the strengthening and consolidation of MFI networks,
working in close collaboration with the IFAD project (PDSFR) that aims at improving the technical
and operational capacity of rural finance systems.
*   Improved water management for sustainable production and incomes. In the course of its first phase,
the project developed improved water collection, pumping and distribution through design and
adaptation of low-cost, cost-effective technologies to mobilize surface and ground water. Experience in
PPIP shows widespread acceptance among participating farmers. The second phase of the project will
enable much fuller dissemination of these technologies across the country. The project will continue its
research and development activities, and will also seek to improve other areas linked to the
development of irrigated perimeters: improving the cultivation techniques, introducing new seed
varieties, and developing high value-added products, accessing financing, etc.
*   Intensifying and diversifying the irrigated production through high quality advisory services and
improved production and marketing practices. To be profitable and reduce risk, irrigated agriculture
should be labour-intensive, diversified among crops, and make timely use of appropriate inputs. PIP2
will put in place private advisory services with which to meet farmers' demands and which will
ultimately be paid for by users. These services will promote the testing of new technologies and
demonstration of proven techniques. The project will help farmers to organize local input supply
systems. Furthermore, extension efforts will promote the cultivation of a wide array of agriculture
products, thus avoiding oversupply of markets and improving the nutritional status of the population.
Special attention will be given to staggering agriculture harvests in such a way as to take best
advantage of market opportunities.
*   Safeguarding productive assets and the environment. The project will promote sustainable
management of natural resources. The Environmental Assessment carried out in preparation of PIP2
concludes that technology used in private small irrigation schemes has generally little or no negative
impact on the environment. However, the project can contribute to improving the environment. PIP2
will promote an environmentally sensitive approach to agriculture through use of integrated pest
management, integrated soil fertility management, use of compost etc. The project will also put in place
systems to monitor the level of aquifers and soil fertility. It will provide advisory services to farmers'
organizations to help them undertake basic environmental studies needed to identify measures to
improve the sustainability of agriculture production and to better manage natural resources. The
project will also offer support to producer groups for local control of desertification by protecting sites
against sand encroachment by stabilizing sand dunes and against koris by better control of ground
water.
*   Socially equitable development. The project will pay a particular attention to the disadvantaged; in
particular to women and youth who often lack access to resources - notably land and micro-finance.
Many techniques developed under the project are targeting women's needs. Manual pumping and
distribution to very small plots will help women's gardening. Household drip systems show great
potential in this respect. Technology developed for the storing and preservation of agricultural produces
will be primarily used by women who are typically responsible for this part of the production cycle.
Support to associations of market gardeners in the marketing of produce should primarily benefit
women who play a major role in the marketing of vegetables.
- 8 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component 1: Advisory Services and Research
Output: Simple, low-cost irrigation and production technologies are developed, tested, improved, and
disseminated to private farmers.
This component has two sub-components. The first concems participatory research, aimed at developing
and testing new technologies with farmer participation to increase irrigated production and add value. The
second involves advisory services, aimed at ensuring that farmers are provided relevant and effective advice
on production and marketing on a regular and timely basis, and aimed at disseminating technologies proved
effective in the pilot phase of the project.
This component will continue to develop, test, and disseminate the technologies developed in the pilot
phase, with the objective of improving the productivity and profitability of smaliholder farmers. Most
financing would cover research and extension for manual technologies, such as (i) improvements to hand
dug wells to increase recharge rate and reduce construction costs, (ii) manual methods for inserting
tubewells, (iii) manual water lifting technologies, (iv) simple water distribution technologies, and (v)
training of local artisans to produce and repair manual irrigation equipment. To a much lesser extent, the
project would also finance research in motorized techniques appropriate for larger holdings (i.e. greater
than 0.5 ha). This may include techniques for tubewell drilling, and more sophisticated water distribution
technologies, including motorized auguring and rotary drilling systems, motorized bailers, small petrol
powered suction pumps, small submersible pumps for deeper water table applications. New technologies
that show promise will also be investigated, such as drip or sprinkler irrigation, which show particular
value in supporting small plots operated by women. ANPIP will recruit operators (consulting firms or
intemational NGOs) who will have responsibility for programming, implementing and monitoring all
activities under this component.
Output performance indicators will relate to the number of new manual and mechanized technologies which
are tested and developed, and the number of farmers who are trained in using the new technologies.
Component 2: Capacity Building
Output: Existing organizations ofsmallholder irrigators (GIEs) are strengthened and new organizations
created so that their members are better placed to take advantage of new technologies.
This component comprises three elements. The first supports ANPIP with a view to it acquiring increasing
autonomy, sustainability and accountability to its members, and also provides support to producers'
organizations, so that a network of farmer organizations is strengthened and participates actively in the
diversification and intensification of irrigated production. The second is aimed at supporting government's
efforts in promoting private irrigation, through its policy, reforms, and deconcentrated services. The third
subcomponent is a pilot, testing private management of selected ONAHA perimeters to develop models that
can be used to help Government disengage from direct involvement in these schemes.
-9-



Despite the project's focus on promoting private as opposed to communal ownership of irrigation assets, it
will be critical to work with groups of producers in order to reduce costs and ensure that large numbers of
potential beneficiaries are reached. Through support to ANPIP and direct support to producer groups, this
component is aimed at organizing and empowering producers and improving their ability to have a voice in
the direction of the subsector. It will provide a variety of support to existing and potential organizations,
including legal advice, intemal organization, entrepreneurial skills, and financial and administrative
management. Support will be provided through project specialists, consultants, seminars, and other training
fora. The component will finance organizational support to economic interest groups (groupements des
interets economiques, GIE) and individuals, so that smallholder farmers are better able to purchase and use
new technologies. The project will help groups acquire legal status, which will be required for access to
banks. As in the pilot phase, PIP2 will create savings associations, within which farmers will be
encouraged to set aside cash to cover the required contributiDn for the matching grant (see below). The
project will also provide assistance to local artisans who manufacture, sell, and repair pumps and possibly
to other service providers (such as well drillers). Finally, the project will address post-farm and marketing
issues by facilitating access to the information services and the export promotion grant facility of the
Agro-pastoral Export Promotion project. On a demand-driven basis, this component will also support the
capacity-building for the Special program of the President of Niger, which aims at improving water
management in Niger through the creation of multiple uses water points serving the needs of people and
livestock. The pilot sub-component will focus on the ONAHA perimeters of Djirataoua (near Maradi),
Konni, and Galmi. The implementation of this sub-component will rest on a contractual agreement between
ANPIP and ONAHA which is countersigned by MDA and which specifies the following operational
modalities: (i) revision of legal texts to separate water management and marketing functions; (ii) creation of
water users' associations to assume the water management function; and (iii) confirmation of the
responsibilities of cooperatives with respect to product marketing. The implementation responsibilities for
all three sub-components will be entrusted to a service provider, who will provide intensive methodology
support during the first year and selective support in subsequent years. The providers could be either
farmers' organizations, NGOs or consulting firms with experience in the institutional development of
farmers' organizations.
Output performance indicators will be the number of groups and beneficiaries who receive assistance from
this component, in terms of the number of training events held, the number of new groups created, the
number of beneficiaries who successfully receive credit from the formal sector, and results of beneficiary
assessments indicating satisfaction with project interventions.
Component 3: Irrigation Investment
Output: Members ofproject- supported producer organizations and related stakeholders are able to
address their irrigation investment needs through a matching grant facility.
This component is aimed at addressing the lack of financing in the sector. The first component is the
"Irrigation Investment Fund", which provides a demand-driven matching grant facility available to the
individual members of the producer groups mentioned in the previous component. The project will finance
irrigation technology and supporting activities through a matching grant, which will be disbursed to a
special account and sub-accounts in branch offices. Eligible beneficiaries (farmers, producer organizations,
equipment producers, etc) will contribute 10 - 30 percent of the cost which will be matched by the project
for eligible activities. The project contribution must be reimbursed by the beneficiaries with interest, but
this sum will be used as a revolving fund for future activities. In this way PIP2 is expected to reinforce,
rather than crowd out, the nascent system of rural finance. Members of producer groups, individuals, and
others who provide support to micro-irrigation (local artisans, etc) will be actively encouraged and assisted
- 10 -



in preparing modest financing proposals based on their perceived needs for irrigation. These proposals will
be screened by the project implementation unit, having first been cleared by the producer group. In some
cases, a consultant may be hired to detennine the technical and economic feasibility. Also, the
environmental protection component (see below) must ensure that the proposals meet the requirements of
the environmental management plan.
The second aspect of this component provides support to Micro-Finance Institutions (MFIs). A
capacity-building fund for MFIs will be put in place to strengthen and develop MFIs and their umbrella
organizations, in collaboration the network supported by PDSFR, the new IFAD rural finance project.
Funds will be used to (i) strengthen the capacity of the MCPEC network (support to operations and
acquisition of techniques needed to rehabilitate the network); and (ii) provide technical support to other
networks assisting irrigators under this project; and (iii) support further development. The strengthening of
MFIs in the MCPEC network will benefit local savings and loans, involved in credit for irrigation
operations and requiring assistance in the form of human resources to support the monitoring and
repayment of their loans, of equipment (motorcycles) and of participation to the financing of their operating
cost.
Output performance indicators will relate to the percentage of grant applications received and granted, the
percentage assessed for technical and economic feasibility, and whether the review process outlined in the
future project implementation manual is respected.
Component 4: Environmental Protection
Output: Minimization of adverse environmental and social impacts from expansion of smallholder
irrigation, and conservation and improvement of the natural resource base where possible.
This component will identify any negative environmental aspects of sub-projects and will put in place an
action plan aiming at mitigating environmental risks. The project will finance studies, investments,
technical assistance and capacity building required to promote a sustainable use of water and soil resources
in Niger. This component has the following objectives: (i) to protect and maintain the irrigated perimeters
and the sites where they are located; (ii) to protect the environment against potentially negative effects of
the development and use of irrigated perimeters, although their small surface (limited in most cases to less
than one hectare and never exceeds 10 hectares) makes a negative impact very unlikely; (iii) to monitor
aquifers against overuse and pollution; and (iv) to train project stakeholders (public services, ANPIP,
consulting firms, agriculture support services, consumers, etc.) on environmental impact issues, techniques
mitigating environmental risks, in particular protection against wind and water erosion, and on their
respective roles within an comprehensive institutional arrangement. This component will be carried out in
collaboration with the Cooperation Fran,aise, who are providing capacity-building support to the Ministry
of Environment to promote environmentally sustainable agricultural production. ANPIP will also
subcontract activities to an operator selected on the basis of an intemational competition, who will carry
out this component.
Output performance indicators will relate to the percentage of farmers notified and using guidelines of
fertilizer use, chemical use, and natural resource conservation measures.
Component 5: Project management
Output: ANPIP's project implementation unit is efficiently and effectively providing demand-driven
- 11 -



assistance to smallfarmers, operating on schedule, and within budget.
This component will support the project implementation unit (PIU) of ANPIP. Project management will be
carried out by qualified professionals, recruited competitively, and experienced in irrigation and farmer
organization. They will operate according to carefully prepared performance goals and expectations. This
component will finance the operational and outreach budget of ANPIP and capacity-building of project
staff.
Output performance indicators will relate to the attainment of project objectives with respect to schedule
and budget.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of     financing   Bank-
.___ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __  __(US$M)  Total  (US$M)  financing
1. Advisory Services and Research  Irrigation &        6.13      12.7      6.13       15.8
Drainage
2. Capacity Building             Institutional         2.32       4.8       1.85       4.8
Development
3. Irrigation Investment         Irrigation &         28.72      59.4     23.23       60.0
Drainage
4. Environmental Protection      Natural Resources     2.29       4.7       2.08       5.4
Management
5. Project Management            Institutional         8.53      17.6       5.03      13.0
Development
Project Preparation Facility     Unidentified          0.40       0.8       0.40       1.0
Total Project Costs                  48.39     100.0      38.72     100.0
Total Financing Required                    48.39     100.0     38.72      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As is evident from the track record of PPIP, the current economic, legal and institutional framework is a
good basis for starting the PIP2 with a solid chance of success. The economic environment for irrigated
conmuodities continues to improve. Many of the public interventions in agricultural marketing have been
removed in the wake of liberalization. The five percent export tax was recently reduced to one percent. In
addition, the commercial roadblocks that placed an unofficial tax on movement of commodities have been
greatly reduced and the formalities demanded by the export licensing bureau have been greatly simplified.
With respect to irrigation, Section A.2 has outlined a situation where GoN has taken many concrete steps
to develop a strategy for the irrigation sub-sector, including validation of the irrigation strategy. The
strategy document currently calls for the support of ANPIP in promoting private irrigation and the
acceleration the process of establishing economic interest groups. A particular policy of relevence is the
gradual phasing out of ONAHA perimeters in favor of private ownership under PIP2. The irrigation
strategy calls for clarification on the status of irrigated lands and the transfer of state-owned perimeters into
private ownership. The strategy calls for a test period of five years, during which time a variety of
participatory procedures may be tested with the aim of establishing operational procedures. The
microfmance development strategy, which was adopted in March 2001, will provide guidance to PIP2 with
respect to linking producers with the commercial banking sector.
- 12 -



3. Benefits and target population:
PIP2 is intended to produce the following benefits. First, it will increase rural employment, farm income,
and farm profitability, and in doing so slow the migration from rural to urban areas. Second, it will
increase export levels, improve Niger's balance of trade, and generate foreign exchange. Third, it will lead
to increase levels of productive private investment in the agricultural sector. Fourth, it will facilitate farmer
empowerment and exploit possibilities for collective action that will capture benefits out the reach of
individuals. Fifth, it will improve the food security and nutritional status of Nigerien households.
Increases in the productive capacity in irrigated agriculture will confer benefits on a large number of
people, particularly smallholder farmers, and further develop the private sector. The prime beneficiaries of
the project are producers of irrigated products, but downstream participants in the filiere (transporters,
processors, wholesalers, and retailers) will share in the benefits. Similarly, those involved in providing
inputs (seed, fertilizer, pump manufacture and repairs, etc) will also benefit. Technical assistance services
would rely mainly on the domestic private sector, with the exception of some of the deconcentrated
agricultural services. The national agricultural research center (INRAN) and the University may be
implicated when technical solutions are required.
Two important aspects related to beneficiaries are notable:
*   First, the target population is not large farmers. Rather, they are smallholders who own or have
usufruct rights to very small amounts of land (farms greater than 10 hectares will not be eligible for
project assistance). Smallholders are the vast majority of farmers using irrigation. Research carried out
in the course of PPIP was unable to find many gardens that exceeded 0.5 hectares (roughly the size of a
football field). A pump user survey carried out in 1999 found that the median garden size was only
0.055 ha, which increased to 0.138 after the purchase of a pump. As such, PIP2 is implicitly a
poverty-targetted project.
*   Second, most beneficiaries will not likely be purchasers of pumps sponsored under the project. As in
the pilot phase, many farmers benefited from the technical advice produced by the project, but either
already owned a pump or chose to use the advice in conjunction with traditional irrigation technologies.
These included members and members of the producer groups. Also, many non-member farmers (about
5,000) participated in the savings facility provided by PPIP.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The period of implementation is five years -- from 2002 to 2007. Project oversight will come from the
Ministry of Agricultural Development (MDA) -- which has the mandate for agricultural water supply
development schemes -- and an Orientation and Monitoring Committee (Comite de Suivi et Orientation,
CSO). Given ANPIP's positive performance in its management of the PPIP, the MDA will delegate to
ANPIP the responsibility for implementation of PIP2. Existing conventions will be revised and adjusted to
reflect the new project components and the geographical coverage, as well as to correct problems that have
emerged during the implementation of the first phase of the project. The project implementation unit will be
an sub-structure of ANPIP.
Project oversight: Comite de Suivi et Orientation, CSO
Experience gained in PPIP implementation underlined the importance of providing the PIP2 with an
oversight structure that will facilitate the government's exercise of its public management functions such as
orientation, monitoring and control. The CSO membership will be specified in a decree to be issued by the
- 13-



MDA and will include representatives from all public agencies involved in the implementation of the PIP2
as well as representatives from the farmers and other operators. Its mandate will include: (i) validating the
key orientations of the project and, if need be, proposing adjustment and reorientation; (ii) approving
annual objectives and priorities proposed by the board of ANPIP and ensuring their consistency with
national rural development objectives and strategies; (iii) coordinating project activities across sectors and
proposing solution to problems and constraints hampering the development of private irrigation in Niger;
(iv) identifying and programming the various appraisal missions; (v) approving annual work programs and
budgets, activity and financial reports for the preceding fiscal year presented by the board of ANPIP; and
(vi) participating in the supervision missions.
Executing agency: Association Nig&ienne de Promotion de l'Irrigation Privee (ANPIP) and the PIU
ANPIP is a private non-profit organization, instituted by the July 12 1993 Decree 121 /MIVDAPJ with the
objective to contribute to the development of all activities associated with the promotion of private
irrigation. The objectives pursued by ANPIP remain pertinent and its role in guiding the development of the
private irrigation sector is fully consistent with government's realignment of public/private goals in the
sector. With PIP2 support, ANPIP will continue its efforts toward strengthening its operational framework
and encouraging inter-professional representations, while developing professional services meeting the
needs of its membership. Its development approach, to be detailed as a "Strategic Development Plan" to be
made available prior to effectiveness of PIP2, is aimed at making ANPIP financially sustainable in the long
term.
For the purpose of implementing the PIP2 as mandated by the government, ANPIP will create the PIU as
its sub-structure responsible for implementing projects entrusted to it. The PIU is operated under the
authority of a General Director and is staffed with a small team of rural development professionals and
some support staff. The PIU will subcontract the implementation of project activities to service providers
(NGO, consultants, etc.) who will manage most sub-components. This approach will help build the
capacity of the private providers used in the project and allow the PIU to function with limited staffing at
headquarters in Niamey and in its regional branches. The key operations that will be directly managed by
the PIU are (i) the administrative and financial management of the project; (ii) the building of capacity in
the public sector through an appropriate training program; and (iii) the processing of requests and
sub-projects to be proposed for Matching Grant financing and to be approved by the oversight committee
(CSO).
The main subcontracts for each project component are: (i) in component 1, development of water
collection, pumping and distribution technology; and support to agriculture development (demonstrations,
trials of new technologies, assistance in completing investment documents, etc.); (ii) in component 2,
strengthening the capacity of ANPIP, farmers organization and advisory services, and testing private
management of selected ONAHA perimeters; (iii) in component 3: strengthening the capacity of MCPEC
and technical supports to PDSFR; and (iv) in component 4: environmental protection measures.
At the central level, the PIU will be structured in three departments (Capacity Building; Irrigation and
Associated Activities Financing; Operations), and three services (Communication; Administration/Finances
and Monitoring and Evaluation). PPIP's Communication and Promotion Service will not exist as such
anymore and will become a support service in the area of communication. At the decentralized level, five
new branches will be added: Niamey (also serving Tillabery), Maradi (covering Zinder), Diffa, Dosso, and
Tahoua (including Agadez). Branches will have an important role to play as they represent the PIU in the
field. As such they will be responsible for coordinating and monitoring all project activities undertaken by
service providers in the area and assessing their impact. Branch management will need to be thoroughly
- 14 -



familiar with all aspects of project management and monitoring and evaluation.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Private sector vs. public sector intervention: As the name implies, the project will place emphasis on
private sector development rather than building capacity in central government and supporting public
expenditure in the subsector. As explained earlier, the public sector has had limited success in agricultural
production, and readily acknowledges that it must disengage from functions in which it does not have a
comparative advantage. This does not mean that the public sector has no role to play. On the contrary, it
will be closely involved in initiating the project, acquiring financing, and ensuring that the project follows
agreed-upon principles and moves towards its objectives.
Private management of government-owned perimeters: A related subject concemed the use of PIP2 to
become a vehicle for the government to gradually convert its publicly managed irrigation schemes to
private management. This was a major subject at the concept review and decision meeting for this project,
and the motivation for a preparation study on this subject based on research at two perimeters -- one at
Galmi and one at Jiratawa (Maradi). On one hand, working on ONAHA perimeters presents a variety of
technical and institutional challenges, outside of the comparative advantage of PPIP. On the other hand,
PIP2 presents a unique opportunity to pursue this important aspect of the government's irrigation strategy
on a test basis, to generate models that for sustainable and economic development of these perimeters in
future. After substantial deliberation, the preparation team decided to implement, on a pilot basis, private
management of three perimeters -- Galmi, Jiratawa, and Konni (see Annex 2 for details).
Credit vs. savings vs. subsidies: Financing in agriculture is a perennial problem due to the lack of a formal
credit market willing to lend to smallholder farmers. A strategic choice therefore had to be made on the type
of financial assistance to be provided through the project. As in the pilot phase, PIP2 will create or support
existing savings associations with which farmers may set cash aside with a view to accessing the irrigation
investment fund. In addition, PIP2 has established links with existing savings and loans institutions (such
as PMR, MCPEC, Credit rural Niger, TAIMAKO, and KOKARI) and will also benefit from links with the
national rural finance program prepared by IFAD (the PDSFR). However, it would not be reasonable to
assume that these small institutions would be willing and able to provide sufficient coverage to meet the
objectives of PIP2. Therefore, the project will provide a matching grant facility, the "Irrigation Investment
Fund", to reduce the financial burden on fanners and induce them to invest in irrigation technologies.
Subsume PIP2 under the CAP: The Community Action Program (CAP) presently under preparation is
designed to strengthen local institutions and offer communities a matching grant facility with which they
can make investments in any sector. Despite these similarities with the design principles of PIP2, it was
decided that a targeted irrigation operation was necessary to ensure adequate investment in the subsector.
This is because communities would very likely choose investments of a public good nature, rather than
investment in income-generating activities which would only benefit a subset of the community. Also, many
water users' associations would cross-cut geographically or socially defined communities and thereby be
excluded from community participation.
- 15 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Irrigation                        Private Pilot Irrigation         HS            S
Promotion Project, Cr. 2707
(closed)
Agricultural Marketing            Agro-pastoral Export              S            S
Promotion Project, Cr. 3363
(active)
Natural Resource Management       Natural Resource Management       S            S
Project, Cr. 1967 (active)
Agricultural Infrastructure       Small Rural Operations Project,   S            S
Cr. 1890 (closed)
Agricultural Research             National Agricultural Research    S            U
Project, Cr. 2122 (closed)
Agricultural Extension            Agricultural Services Project,    S            U
Cr. 2355 (closed)
Water Supply                      Water Sector Project, Cr. 3505
(recently active)
Local Development                 Community Action Program
(preparation)
Other development agencies
CIDA                              MECRAF, Niamey
IFAD                              Projet Special FIDA, Tillaberi;
Project Aguie, Maradi;
Programme de Developpement
des Systemes financiers ruraux
(PDSFR)
EU                                Basse Vallee Tarka, Tahoua,
Zinder; Programme d'appui a la
securit6 alimentaire par la petite
irrigation (ASAPI)
ADB                               Projet de Developpement
Regional, Diffa; Projet de
Developpement rural, Dosso
SNV                               PROMEX, Tahoua, Tillaberi
FAO                               Programme Sp6cial pour la
Securite Alimentaire (PSSA)
Cooperation Francaise             Projet Securite Alimentaire;
Appui au developpement du
Nord-Niger (phase II).
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 16 -



Synergies with other projects:
The project will undertake special effort to collaborate with other projects -- both those financed by IDA
and by others. The appraisal mission defined several such opportunities, notably with ASAPI/PAFRIZ
(EU), PSSA (FAO), Projet intrants (FAO), and Projet Securite Alimentaire; Appui au developpement du
Nord-Niger, phase II (Cooperation Franqaise). Eligible farrners' organizations participating in other
projects would benefit from the full range of services offered in this project. Close collaboration is already
foreseen with the Agro-pastoral Export Promotion Project, including the development of complementary
and common activities, as well as with the Natural Resources Management Project and the Community
Action Program.
With respect to micro-finance, the project will work very closely with the PDSFR by participating in the
strengthening of capacity within the MFIs in order that they are better able to provide financial support to
the development of small irrigation. Moreover the project will also develop a close cooperation with
existing rural finance systems and their donors already operating in the extension areas. The project will
also cooperate closely with the ASAPI project supported by the European Union, focusing on the Tahoua
and Zinder departments, as this project and the PIP2 share common areas of intervention. The project will
coordinate with the PSSA. In particular it will take advantage of its South-South cooperation component
assisted by Morocco with an additional support of the FAO and the Islamic Development Bank.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from the rural portfolio
Much of the completed project work in rural development in Niger has been quite disappointing. Project
Dosso (Cr. 967) and Project Maradi II (Cr.1026), which closed in the mid-1980s, were aimed at
increasing crop production, encouraging farmer participation, and building capacity at the local level.
These projects had serious implementation and disbursement problems and failed to improve productivity
and empower farmers. More recently, three operations closed in 1998. The Agricultural Services Support
Project (Cr.2355) aimed at strengthening agricultural, livestock and environment protection extension to
farmers with a view to increase agricultural production and sustain growth of farmers' incomes. Activities
included reorganizing extension services, regular training of officials at various levels, strengthening ties
between extension and research, linking crop, livestock, and environmental services, and providing literacy
and numeracy training. The National Agricultural Research Project (Cr.2122) attempted to improve
national planning and implementation capacity in agricultural research. This included on-farm adaptive
research, multiplication and distribution of improved seeds, and increased focus on soil and water
management technologies. The Small Rural Operations Project (Cr. 1890) was a pilot undertaken in the
context of field-level developmental activities, such as bottomland development, small irrigated schemes,
fruit tree nurseries, soil conservation, and water harvesting. Its goal was to develop local capacity to
prepare, appraise, execute, and evaluate small rural operations (SROs) with the active participation of the
local population, as well as to provide complementary extension once SROs became operational.
Performance of these projects ranged from highly unsatisfactory to limited success at best. However, they
have produced valuable lessons to consider in planning future work in Niger, including PIP2:
*   Sustainability of operations remains a key yet unresolved issue, and is hindered by a "project
mentality" of many government officials and even farmers, whereby each project is expected to be
followed by another.
- 17-



*   Government lacks a clear framework, action plan, or time path for decentralizing services or getting
beneficiaries to take charge of activities. While the government's long-term objective is
desengagement, this is not reflected either in the structure of the administrative services or in terms of
how these services deal with farmers or the civil society.
*   Institution building takes time. Capacity built as the result of a project may not become evident for ten
to fifteen years. Operations designed to develop local capacity and a participatory culture may require
a long-term commitment before development impacts are evident.
*   Monitoring and evaluation systems have been extremely poor or nonexistent. It is essential to define
and phase project objectives by stating clearly at appraisal the short, medium, and long-term objectives
of the project and related performance indicators. Such systems must be properly staffed and be
allocated timely and adequate resources for operation and training.
* Decentralized financial management at the local community level is central to successful
implementation of bottom-up approaches to development and for promoting a culture of financial
discipline in managing community funds. Communities and economic interest groups in Niger have
demonstrated a strong willingness and capacity to undertake procurement and manage the activities
that matter to them.
*   Demonstrated ownership and empowerment are key to effective participation of farmers in small
rural development operations. Training in farm management skills such as entrepreneurship and risk
management promotes financial sustainability. Simplified operating procedures, legal protection, and
clarity with respect to benefits of the established financial mechanisms are central to establishing
ownership and credibility of such mechanisms.
* Although public administration can be an effective catalyst in fostering private entrepreneurial
development and participatory grassroots income-generating initiatives, it is generally less effective
than a private association of the beneficiaries.
Based on these lessons, the design of PIP2 will (i) rely heavily on private sector administration and
management to ensure that beneficiaries set priorities set priorities and that central government bureaucracy
and interference is minimized, (ii) ensure extensive participation of stakeholders in project implementation,
(iii) provide sufficient resources for an effective monitoring and evaluation system, and (iv) decentralize
resources to the local level.
Lessons from the pilot phase (PPIP)
PPIP has been quite successful, consistently achieving successful ratings in terms of development
objectives and implementation progress. The following lessons are extracted from supervision reports, the
1998 mid-term review, and the recent draft implementation completion report (ICR) of the PPIP.
*   Overall project results are satisfactory and likely to be sustainable. The project was also found to have
a positive impact on institutional development in Niger, and both the World Bank's and Borrower's
performance have been satisfactory.
*   Project implementation has demonstrated the capacity of the private sector to competently and
effectively manage a development operation financed out of public funds within the framework of a
convention agreed upon with the government. The quality of results achieved by the NGO responsible
for project implementation (ANPIP) shows that Niger has the resources outside government to
successfully organize and manage complex rural development programs. Transferring implementation
- 18 -



of the project to a non-profit agency has assured regularity and reliability of financial operations,
transparency in administration, effective execution of field activities, and attainment of most objectives.
*   The project has enabled ANPIP to broaden its membership and to consolidate its presence in rural
Niger. By successfully managing the project and contributing to the improvement in productivity of
the irrigated perimeters, ANPIP has demonstrated its utility to farmers. PPIP is now quite well know
throughout Niger and is well-perceived by beneficiaries.
*   Irrigation is not only possible as a private sector activity but in fact it is more profitable than
traditional public schemes.The experience from PPIP shows that in Niger, low cost mechanization of
private irrigation is an effective way to increase yields and incomes. Investments in run-off water
harvesting techniques also show high productivity and profitability. However, high price variability,
dependence on unreliable traders, and general lack of knowledge of marketing opportunities, constrains
the profitability of commercial production. Furthermore, the ability of farmers to take advantage of the
mechanized technologies is constrained by the small size of their parcels.
*   Increases in production brought by the introduction of new technology require new initiatives beyond
the scope of individual farmers. These initiatives include the availability of agriculture credit required
to finance new technologies, input supply, availability of new storing techniques to handle larger
harvests, and a denser marketing network.
*   With simple technologies, the cost of irrigation can be reduced so that investment is within reach of
many poor farmers. Yet financial assistance must be provided within a sustainable framework. Access
to credit remains a constraint to many potential beneficiaries, despite the low investment costs for wells
and manual pumps. The development of private irrigation requires credit to finance investments as well
seasonal credits for working capital.
*   The global experience in the creation and management of village level savings and loans associations
shows that it takes a long time for these associations to achieve maturity and operate independently.
The process may take several years and requires technical support to the functioning and loan
monitoring. The recent development of the current network of association still requires extemal
support. The implementation of appropriate financial arrangements and in particular the consolidation
of existing savings and loans associations and an extension of the network to other regions is a
prerequisite to expanding irrigation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Government views PIP2 as a primary vehicle for the promotion of its national irrigation strategy, and has
demonstrated strong support to the project throughout the preparation period. The Bank's Water Resource
Management Review states that Niger has shown a considerable and sustained commitment to development
of its water resource management strategy. Government clearly adheres to the objectives of agricultural
intensification, diversification, and private sector led development in the sector. This conclusion is based on
numerous strategy documents, the record of Government with respect to PPIP and APEPP, and the
continuing efforts by to help farmers cope with food deficits through the creation of irrigated perimeters.
Beneficiaries, as well, continue to support the efforts of ANPIP.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
While many donors are involved in rural water supply and irrigation, the World Bank has a comparative
advantage in pushing forward a policy agenda at the central level which promotes private investment in
irrigation. Several areas of synergy may be exploited within the Bank's portfolio in Niger. The most
obvious is the export promotion project, which has already been discussed. The Community Action
- 19-



Program (CAP) and the Natural Resource Management project (PGRN) will lend lessons on
community-driven development and soil and water conservation measures. Finally, with its track record
with PPIP, the Bank has an obvious advantage at continuing with this work in future. Despite our strong
position in the sector, the World Bank must continue to make every effort to collaborate with other donors
interested in supporting or co-financing private irrigation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$7.2 million; ERR = 15 - 108 % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
Net benefits from pumps: Standard cost-benefit analysis has already been undertaken on a variety of
technology options (see point 3 below) offered by PPIP. Direct benefits result from the adoption of
motorized and manual pumps which have been designed to meet small fanner requirements and
capabilities. Other benefits derive from making tubewells less expensive, more versatile, and easier to
install. The study Impact Analysis of the EntrepriseWorks Treadle pump and Handpump on Market
Gardeners in Niger (October 20, 2000) sampled 45 market gardeners and conducted analyses on labor
requirements, financial costs, production, and profitability. Gross revenues of market gardeners before
acquiring pumps were US$177, and with use of pumps these almost doubled to US$342. Net income
analysis based on a variety of assumptions about the shadow value of labour indicates increases in
profitability between 86 and 336 percent -- on the order of about $100 per garden. While these increases
may seem quite modest, it is worth recalling that annual GDP per capita in Niger is less than US$190.
Analysis showed labour time for women, young girls, and boys decreased by 9.5 percent for water lifting
and distribution tasks. Labour time for adult men increased by 25 percent, which is mainly due to the
expansion of cultivated areas. Nine out of ten market gardeners reported that they had to irrigate their crops
less frequently after buying the pump, since the amount of water that could be applied at one time was
increased and conveyance losses were reduced. The economics of mechanized pump irrigation is less well
understood. The small size of most parcels is a significant constraint, because in order to be profitable this
technology requires larger areas and better management. Further work is required to define at what scale in
Niger mechanized technologies can be profitable for the average gardener.
Net benefits from proposed project: Cost-benefit analysis for the project as a whole has been carried out
and is summarized in Annex 4. The analysis starts with returns from newly improved sites as well as on
project investments directly associated to the production. Subsequently, this is aggregated to describe
global returns. In the first case, quantifiable benefits are realized by an increase in agricultural production
(in particular market gardening), contrasting with the pre-project situation. In the second case, benefits
coming from multiple sources have been taken into account: i.e. farmers on consolidated sites, artisans and
merchants who manufacture and sell hydraulic equipment, distributors who sell additional input, new
private advisory services selling their services and decentralized financial services managing project funds.
Non-quantifiable benefits such as improved food security in rural areas have not been taken into account.
Finally, in the third case, no benefits have been attached to investments linked to the social, political and
ecological environment, which are too difficult to quantify.
The ERR calculations depend on important assumptions. Returns from on-farm investments are very high
(100 percent) and correspond to the earlier study. However, the global measure of 16 percent appears quite
modest. This is because the costs of capacity-building and environmental protection components are
factored in, but not the benefits, which defy quantification. For this reason, the global measure should be
considered a low case scenario which assumes zero net benefits from these components.
- 20 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 2.8 million; FRR = 82 % (see Annex 4)
Perhaps the greatest challenge of this project is to make the irrigation technologies within the financial
reach of poor farmers. Significant achievements have been made in the pilot phase with respect to reducing
the costs of pumps and wells. A locally manufactured small suction/pressure treadle pump is can now be
sold for only 35,000 FCFA US$50). A hand augured well costs from 25,000 - 80,000 FCFA depending on
well diameter and drilling conditions, with an average price of 45,000 FCFA (US$64). Annual maintenance
costs for a handpump averaged US$14 per season, and average annual repair costs were US$2 per pump.
Despite these important advances in cutting costs, an investment of US$ 100 is still well beyond the reach of
a large number of poor rural households. To make this technology more accessible, the project will finance
irrigation technology and supporting activities through a matching grant, which will be disbursed to a
special account and sub-accounts in branch offices. Eligible beneficiaries (farmers, producer organizations,
equipment producers, etc) will contribute 30 percent of the cost which will be matched by the project for
eligible activities. The financing will be handled by micro-finance institutions (MFIs) jointly supported by
PDSFR and PIP2. The project contribution must be reimbursed by the beneficiaries with interest, but this
sum will be used as a revolving fund for future activities. In this way PIP2 is expected to reinforce, rather
than crowd out, the nascent system of rural finance.
Fiscal Impact:
A global analysis of the project is provided in Annex 4. The fiscal impact is positive. Government net cash
flow (where inputs are IDA contribution, taxation, and outputs are project costs, IDA repayment) over 29
years is US $4.1 million.
3. Technical:
The pilot project work has produced a smaller and cheaper treadle pump which can be manufactured and
repaired locally, and field trials and test marketing show great enthusiasm among the gardeners for this
technology. Recent controlled tests show that they perform almost as well as their original PPIP pumps and
are easier to operate. Given this progress, major technical advances or cost-reductions on manual pumps
are not foreseen during PIP2. Instead, the focus will be on disseminating proven technology. PIP2,
however, will experiment with promising technologies that are new to Niger but common elsewhere. For
example, small and micro drip irrigation packages are currently being tested at ICRISAT. While these have
yet to be demonstrated to be profitable for Nigerien farmers (in comparison to the treadle pump packages),
they may be supported under the research sub-component. The household drip packages, which store water
in a barrel and irrigated through plastic tubing to 40 m' area, may be particularly attractive for women's
gardens.
Nigerien farmers have different needs and capacities, and PIP2 will therefore offer a range of technical
packages. A phased investment approach will be adopted so that gardeners can increase their productivity
through the use of improved technologies while improving management techniques (cultural practices,
labour, production calendar, marketing, etc.), much in the way that successful private businesses grow. A
hypothetical example of a phased approach might be as follows:
*   Year 0: A farmer has a hand dug well with a rudimentary rope-and-calabash gravity irrigation
distribution system. This may be marginally profitable but suffers from a very large labour
- 21 -



requirement.
* Year 1: With participation in the project, the farmer buys a treadle pump, but retains the hand dug
well. The gardener realizes productivity gains, but may observe that the water lifting capacity now
exceeds the well capacity, and decides to improve the well.
* Year 2: The drilled tube well, treadle pump, and rudimentary gravity irrigation distribution system
pennits a large expansion in the size of the garden because neither the amount of water nor the time to
lift it is a constraint. As the garden size expands and the length of the distribution canals increase, the
gardener sees the need for a better distribution system.
* Year 3: A buried PVC distribution system is acquired.
* Year 4: Extension of the PVC system again allows an increase in garden size.
* Years 5-7: Other improvements may include a second well and pump and further expansion of the
distribution system.
* Year 8: A motorized pump is added to the system, with manual pumps providing a reliable back-up in
times of fuel shortage or breakdown.
The project will discourage farmers from skipping too many steps, nor will it assume that all farmers will
choose to graduate to the final result. Instead, the project will be ready to provide advice and
encouragement on the logical next phase for those who are ready to take the risk necessary to move
forward. Farmers who wish to start from rudimentary practices and proceed directly to motorized pumps
will not be eligible for project financing.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
PIP2, like the pilot project, will be implemented under the overall responsibility of the Ministry of
Agricultural Development, whose primary function will be to enforce the convention that established
ANPIP as the executing agency of the project. As in the pilot phase, the role of central government will be
minimal. ANPIP will have primary responsibility for the package of training and technical assistance
services which it contracts out to consulting firms, for the implementation of the project components.
ANPIP is an independent institution, with the legal status of an NGO. Its Board is drawn from the privation
irrigation sector, consisting of individual farmers and representatives of farmers' cooperatives. ANPIP has
the legal status of a private agency and has entered into an agreement with Govemrnment to execute the
project.
4.2 Project management:
ANPIP has, during the pilot project, has demonstrated exceptional capacity for project implementation.
ANPIP currently consists of a director, four senior technical staff (communication specialist, irrigation
engineer, hydrogeologist and an agronomist). The administration team consists of an accounting and
financial management officer, an operational assistant, and support staff. An expatriate consultant who is
an expert in appropriate technologies is in charge of the technology component. Since PIP2 will be a larger
project with greater financing and geographical coverage, the staff of ANPIP will need to grow, at least
initially.
One of the important functions of project management will be monitoring and evaluation, particularly given
the expanded coverage. The M&E function of project implementation unit will be concemed with tracking
performance indicators and evaluation of technical, financial, and implementation efficiency of the project.
From this analysis, the PIU will make recommendations for improving and scaling up. The system will
- 22 -



incorporate feedback from all stakeholders, including management teams, service providers, firms,
contractual NGOs and participating government agencies. To the extent possible, the M&E data will be
collected by the local communities and operators themselves. The project monitoring and evaluation system
is described in Annex 11.
4.3 Procurement issues:
ANPIP follows its own procedures, consistent with Bank Guidelines for Procurement and Consulting
Services, and is not encumbered by heavy bureaucratic procedures or political interests. A procurement
audit has diagnosed and specified procedures that are participatory, transparent, and fully compliant with
Bank and Borrower rules, thus providing an important input into the project's operational manual. Details
on procurement issues appear in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
a) Capacity Assessment of UGP and Financial Monitoring Reports
A Project Implementing Unit (Unite de Gestion du Projet) staffed with competent and experienced staff,
including an administrative and financial management specialist, an irrigation financing specialist, a
producer organization specialist, and a private irrigation development specialist, will be recruited through a
competitive and transparent process in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
Adequate provisions will be made to train the accounting and financial staff. In addition, the UGP will
recruit a procurement specialist, an internal auditor financial comptroller, and two experienced accountants.
The project will establish a financial management system, acceptable to IDA, which will provide the
borrower and IDA with accurate and timely information regarding resources and expenditures. The financial
management systems will include budgetary accounting, financial reporting, for internal control device and
auditing elements. A financial management consultant or firm would be selected to assist in the design and
establishment of the computerized financial management systems of the UGP. The Unit will be responsible
for project administrative and technical coordination as well as financial management. The final
configuration of the UGP, the profile of the staff as well as their job descriptions have been described in the
Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The relevant internal control system, meanwhile, has been
determined and fully described in the Manual of budgetary accounting and financial procedures.
b) Financial Management Arrangements
Accounting and Financial Reporting
The Unite de Gestion du Projet (UGP) of ANPIP will maintain the books and accounts of the project
activities and will ensure that the production of the annual financial statements are done on a timely manner.
A financial management consultant or firm would be selected to design a computerized accounting and
financial management system, based on internationally generally acceptedable accounting principles agreed
with the Bank. The consultant will also prepare the accompanying guidelines for the software operations and
will check whether computerized guidelines match with the Manual of budgetary financial and accounting
procedures. The manual will be agreed to by IDA. The consultant will be responsible for the initial training
of the accounting and financial management staff on the efficient operation of the computerized accounting
system. They will also be responsible for the preparation of a training program in financial management
-23 -



with an implementation timetable and will provide the project with assistance. The selection of the
accounting software will ensure that the system is supported by a reliable organization.
ANPIP will maintain its account in accordance with International Accounting Standards, and the quality of
financial management has been verified by auditors during the first phase of the project. ANPIP and the
Ministry of Agricultural Development will keep all documentation related to project expenditures, and will
all at times keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices to reflect its operations and
financial position. These records would be made available to Bank missions and independent auditors. As in
the pilot phase, ANPIP's accounts would be audited on an annual basis.
Financial Monitoring Reports
The UGP's responsibilities for preparation of Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) are explained in the
PIM. The administrative and financial management specialist will be responsible for preparing the FMRs,
while the Director General of ANPIP will be responsible for ensuring that they are provided to stakeholders
and the Association on a quarterly timely basis. FMRs will provide information that establish (i) whether
funds disbursed to projects are being used for the purpose intended; (ii) whether project implementation is on
track; and (iii) that budgeted costs will not be exceeded. Financial information will be linked explicitly with
the physical progress and procurement of the project. At a minimum, the FMRs will include The annual
financial statements of the project will be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles and will include (i) discussion of project progress, (ii) sources and uses of funds statement, (iii)
uses of funds by expenditure type (iv) output monitoring report (v) procurement report. The audited financial
statements will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year. The
computerized accounting system will be customized to generate the FMRs required in the forms as indicated
in "Financial Monitoring Reports for World Bank-Financed Projects: Guidelines for Borrowers".a statement
showing cash receipts by sources and expenditures by main classification, beginning and ending cash
balances of the project, and supporting schedules comparing actual and planned expenditures. Adequate
financial management arrangements, including the ability to produce a timely FMR, will be in place by credit
effectiveness.
Auditing
Project records and accounts will be audited in accordance with international audit standards by an
experienced and internationally recognized audit firm acceptable to IDA. The audit reports will be submitted
to IDA within six months after the end of Government fiscal year. In addition to their standard short-form
report with opinion on the annual financial statements, the auditors will be required to: (i) carry out a
comprehensive review of all the SOEs as well as the internal control procedures goveming their preparation
for the relevant period under audit, and express a separate opinion thereon; and (ii) review the management
and utilization of the special account and the project account and express a separate opinion thereon on each
of them as well; (iii) the auditor will complete their in-depth review, started at interim, of the intemal control
system of the project with a view to identify the major weaknesses and shortcomings and proposing practical
recommendations for improvement. The results of this review would be documented in a Management Letter
to be submitted along with the audit report.
The auditors will review and audit the use of the PPF and PHRD Grant funds covering the period prior to
effectiveness. They will also perform interim audits (9 months into the fiscal year) to review the intemal
control system including management performance, and issue reports to that effect within one month from
the end of their work. The findings and recommendations of the interim reports will be addressed by
management without delay before the final audit (mostly 6 months after closing of the fiscal year). The
- 24 -



contracting of auditors on a renewable multi-year contract, acceptable to IDA, and certification by the
financial auditors that the project accounting system is operational, is a condition of credit effectiveness.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An environmental assessment was completed, and disclosed to the World Bank's Infoshop and in Niger in
November 2001. The goals of the environmental assessment were to identify the environmental
repercussions of PPIP activities, identify the potential environmental impacts of the proposed PIP2
diversification activities, and draw up a plan of action to minimize the environmental risks. Because PIP2 is
a category B project, the report does not constitute a formal environmental impact assessment. Annex 12
summarizes the assessment of PIP2's potential environmental impacts and mitigation strategies.
The analytical impact assessment procedure included (i) identification of impact source activities and the
environmental components likely to be affected by them; (ii) determination of the environmental value and
level of disturbance of the physical, biological and human elements likely to be affected; (iii) an assessment
of the level of disturbance suffered by each component and identification of the duration and extent of the
effects generated by each activity; (iv) an estimate of impact significance and preparation of a summary
impact assessment grid.
*   Soil degradation: While soil degradation, including salinization, alkalinization, structural deterioration
and leaching of nutrient elements, is usually by far the most serious problem usually associated with
irrigation, the studies carried out by INRAN on soils in the PPIP zone revealed no environmental
impact that would justify a change in the project's content or strategy. On the contrary, the positive
impacts of dune stabilization, close protection of plots and several examples of gully control confirmed
the pertinence of many activities in the project's environmental protection component. Similarly, the
techniques proposed for PIP2 had, in many plots, helped avoid the harmful effects of traditional water
wells, including loss of cultivable land, sanding up of sites, the creation of ponds conducive to the
spread of malaria and the use of wood to stabilize well walls. No major changes have been announced
in the content of PIP2, and therefore no negative repercussions on soils are anticipated as a result of the
proposed irrigation technologies.
*   Overuse of water: The danger of overusing alluvial tables and declines in the phreatic level are
undeniably the most worrying environmental aspects of PIP2. In areas where small irrigators are likely
to become concentrated in smaller spaces, or close to ponds, the water resource potential from the
ponds or alluvial tables in particular raises a number of concems related to physical and biological
resource sustainability.
*   Agrochemicals: With regard to the impacts on the human community, the report highlights some major
deficiencies in the marketing and use of agrochemicals in Niger. A number of factors have combined to
create a context conducive to negative impacts, including the sale of prohibited and counterfeit
products, inappropriate mixture strengths, lack of training for farmers and so on.
Results of the Environmental Assessment are contained in Annex 12.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
In spite of the above concems, the assessment of PIP2's impacts on the physical, biological and human
components suggests that the positive aspects will clearly be greater than the negative aspects. The
mitigation measures for the project's environmental impacts are as follows:
- 25 -



*   Preparation and systematic application, for each site, of an environmental characterization form-guide;
*   Preparation and incorporation of environmental clauses in all legal documents and contracts relating to
PIP2;
*   Implementation of a "matching grant" system for land development, environmental protection and safe
pesticide use;
*   Inclusion in PIP2 of a number of training spaces, elements and content aimed at improving
environmental perception and consideration;
*   Identification of technical altematives to the use of alluvial aquifers in small private irrigation projects.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 17/10/2001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The draft EMP has been released for public review in the project areas and in the capital, and the public
and government were invited to comment. The draft report has been forwarded to the Ministry of
Environment and Ministry of Agricultural Development for review and approval. Reports on the EMP will
be made available to the public through regulatory agencies.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The project's environmental protection component is explicitly designed to implement the EMP, including
the monitoring of water withdrawals and the and evaluation of the implementation of the mitigation
measures. Beneficiaries will be actively involved in the monitoring of this component. The indicators will
reflect the objectives and results of the EMP section of the EA.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The social and gender assessment of the project included an inventory of potential beneficiaries and a
profile of target groups including the vulnerable groups such as women and youth. The gender aspect of the
assessment reviewed present and potential levels of women's participation in small-scale irrigation, with a
view to promoting their role in a sector that has been traditionally dominated by men. The study identified
the proportion and type of irrigation activities in which women are presently engaged, identifies obstacles to
further participation, and proposed guidelines and capacity-building requirements for enhancing the
women's potential.
With respect to assisting women and the poor, planned activities will focus first on training all project
stakeholders and improving their awareness of the corresponding issues. The following activities would
particularly benefit women: (i) 25 sq. meters micro-irrigation kits of which 750 would be sold for the
family market gardening production; (ii) tests and promotion activities for the storing, preservation,
processing and local marketing of agriculture products; (iii) training in the area of nutrition including the
preparation and use of vegetables. The project will also help poor and landless farmers to gain access to
financing (their personal contribution would be lower). It would help them to lease land, which is relatively
- 26 -



easy provided when one is ready to submit to some constraints (no planting of fruit trees), and to take
advantage of opportunities requiring only small amount of capital, in particular in the area of storing and
artisanal processing.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Project beneficiaries in PIP2 will drive the agenda of ANPIP, as they have throughout the pilot phase.
They are responsible for preparation, implementation, and maintenance of the micro-projects approved by
the project. Beneficiary workshops will continue to be held on a regular basis to evaluate performance of
the project, and fanner-to-farmer exchanges will be an integral part of the capacity-building component.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Collaboration with civil society is the foundation of PIP2 and the pilot project. The most obvious example
is the contracting of ANPIP (an NGO) to execute the project, and the dependence on producer
organizations as the focal point of project interventions.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
An institutional analysis was conducted to improve project management and outreach at the level of ANPIP
and groups of irrigation operators. The institutional analysis included (i) a study the social organization of
irrigation operators and their interface with local administration; (ii) an analyses of the management,
procurement, and accounting capacity in ANPIP and producer groups (iii) identification of skills gaps (iv)
guidelines for strengthening the administrative and local capacity. In addition, an extension plan examined
current strategies of outreach to existing and potential groups of irrigators and make recommendations for
improvements.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Social development outcomes will be measured as part of the larger monitoring and evaluation system (see
annex 1 1).
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    * Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
*   Environmental assessment: Environmental assessment has been carried out, as described above, and
- 27 -



provisions to ensure compliance are summarized in annex 12.
*   Natural habitats: These are terrestrial zones or aquatic regions where indigenous plant and animal
species dominate, and where they may be put at risk by human activity which may fundamentally
modify ecological functions. Some of the project activities may potentially cause harm if introduced to
such areas. However, the vast majority of irrigation activities will take place in areas already under
cultivation for many years. The project thus conforms to this safeguard, given that the mitigation
measures in the environmental protection component are applied.
*   Forestry: The project will not operate in forested areas. However, the project will encourage the
planting of natural hedges around irrigated parcels to mitigate deforestation and to prevent use of wood
to construct fences. Tests of artificial fencing are also foreseen.
*   Pest management: This is covered in the EA and EMP. Farmers who use irrigation currently use
pesticides for fruit and vegetable production, which come principally from Nigeria without any
controls. The project has committed resources for farmer training on rationale and judicious use of
pesticide in accordance with the UMEOA directives. Conforming with OP 4.09, the project will not
finance pesticides. Integrated pest management will be disseminated to farmers through the advisory
services sub-component of the project. The project will also bring agents for crop protection from the
public sectors to improve control of phytosanitary products at the borders.
*   Cultural property: The project conforms with this safeguard as it does not pose any perceived threat to
cultural property, reinforced by the fact that it will only operate in zones where it is demanded by local
citizens.
*   Indigenous peoples: Niger is composed of very diverse groups in terms of social and ethnic
differentiation and social influence. However, no group in any of the zones of project intervention is
considered an indigenous group in terms of Bank policy.
*   Involuntary resettlement: The project does not foresee any resettlement, since it will take place on
lands already settled by the intended beneficiaries, whether they own or possess usufruct rights to land
under modem or traditional law.
*   Safety of dams: The project will not finance large investments aimed at dam construction.
*   Projects in international waters: This principle applies specifically to irrigation with water use from
intemational waterways or which risks polluting them. Sixty percent of irrigable potential is located in
the Niger river valley, and depends on the surface water from this river and its tributaries. Although
Niger has domain over only a small section of the river, there are important international implications.
Intemational riparian agreements have been signed to put in place structures needed to facilitate a
sound management of these resources: (i) the 11/21/1980 Faranah Convention goveming the Niger
Basin Authority (NBA) cosigned by 9 riparian countries of the Niger river. However the October 29,
1997 N'djamena Convention renders the NBA incompetent with respect to the equitable sharing of
water resources among its member countries; (ii) the 1990 Maiduguri Agreement (revised during the
1998 Council of Ministers meeting in Sokoto) between Niger and Nigeria regarding the equitable
management of the four main river basins they have in common (Maggia/Lamido, Gada/Goulbi de
maradi, Tagwai/ El Fadama and the lower Komadougou Yobe). The riparian states of the Niger River
have signed the 19080 Faranah Convention creating the Niger Basin Authority (ABN). Under this
Convention the member states are obliged to inform the Executive Secretariat of all projects and works
they might intend to carry out in the Basin. The Niger Basin Authority, the Niger/Nigeria Joint
Commission on Cooperation, and the Lake Chad Commission have been sent official letters describing
the project's intentions, and no objections were received prior to negotiations. As described earlier, the
environmental and social protection component will provide an official link with the Niger/Nigeria Joint
- 28 -



Commission charged with the management of international water management issues.
* Projects in disputed areas: PIP2 does not foresee any possible activities in disputed areas and is
accordance with this safeguard.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Profitability of irrigation technologies: The crux of the sustainability of PIP2 and its pilot predecessor it
its ability to convince farmers of the financially profitability of the irrigation technologies in the long run.
The financial analysis described earlier strongly suggests that, once farmers have made the required
investment, the net returns do indeed ensure that the pumps are maintained.
Financial sustainability of ANPIP. Given ANPIP's support base (small farmers) and the demands for the
monitoring and project management, it is unrealistic to think that the membership will be able to support
these activities without donor funding. It is not, however, unrealistic to suppose that ANPIP could become
at least partially self-supporting through the collection of overhead from projects that it manages. To be
fully self-supporting would ultimately require a leaner agency. While the ANPIP staff would have to be
expanded in the early stages of PIP2, it would be desirable to increasingly transfer various project functions
to the producer organizations.
Environmental sustainability: As indicated by the Environmental Assessment, the positive impacts in
PPIP conceming dune stabilization, close protection of plots and several examples of gully control suggests
that its environmental protection component has contributed positively to environmental sustainability.
Similarly, PPIP techniques proposed for PIP2 had, in many plots, helped avoid the harmful effects of
traditional water wells, including loss of cultivable land, sanding up of sites, the creation of ponds
conducive to the spread of malaria and the use of wood to stabilize well walls. However, PIP2 will have to
carefully monitor aquifers, and to train beneficiaries in the appropriate and safe use of agrochemicals. If
successful, therefore, the project is expected to have a positive effect on the long-term sustainability of
natural resources.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Farmers maintain irrigation equipment      N         Farmers will have the incentive to maintain their
and progressively expand their plots                 equipment, given the financial gains from doing
so. The project, however, must be clear that
poorly maintained pumps will not be replaced
for free.
Information and research is received       N         The information generated by the project must
widely and used productively by                      be regularly assessed by clients through
beneficiaries                                        monitoring to ensure accuracy, relevance, and
timeliness. It must also be disseminated through
a variety of media.
Producers willing to organize and able to  N         The producer support component can contract
acquire legal status                                 consultants or NGOs to provide participatory
appraisal methods of determining demand.
- 29 -



Farmers are willing to use savings         M         The project must be able to demonstrate the
services                                             utility of savings and ensure that these are
efficiently transformed into micro-investments.
Farmers find new technologies affordable    S        Continuing efforts must be made to reduce
investment costs through the first (research)
component. The project may be given discretion
on the cash contribution to accommodate ability
to pay. The finance component is designed
explicitly to facilitate access to financing.
Water availability permits extraction rates  M       The EMP and environmental protection
suitable for increased irrigation                    component will set and measure basic
parameters with respect to aquifers, ponds, and
surface water extraction.
Road taxes do place excessive downward      S        These taxes have been largely removed in Niger,
pressure on farm-gate prices                         but continue to be high in neighboring countries,
beyond the reach of this project.
From Components to Outputs
Adequate capacity in private sector to     M         Where capacity is weak or bottlenecks are
support irrigated production                         found, the producer support and investment fund
components may be used as targeted
interventions.
Ability to secure qualified project        N         ANPIP's record assures that capacity is likely
management and implementation capacity               present. However, in-country capacity my be
to scale up ANPIP's activities                       supplemented by short- or long-term external
expertise when necessary. The project
management component will provide additional
capacity-building efforts, which will be guided
by a specific preparation study on institutional
analysis.
Government supplies counterpart funding    M         This was a major concern based on PPIP's
on a timely basis                                    experience, but assurances were clearly defined
at negotiations and counterpart funds in cash are
minimal, justified by the fact that the project is
financing private sector activities.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No controversial aspects of the project are anticipated.
- 30 -



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
a) Staffing of a project management structure (PIU) by ANPIP which is staffed with professionals
experienced and competent and who are satisfactory to IDA. These staff are:
1. Director General
2. Administrative and financial management specialist
3. Irrigation financing specialist
4. Producer organization specialist
5. Private irrigation development specialist
b) Adoption of a Project Implementation Manual (PIM) acceptable to IDA.
c) Establishment of a Project Account with initial deposit.
d) Borrower and ANPIP have adopted the Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
In compliance with OP 7.50, non-objections from countries sharing international waters were a condition of
negotiations, ie. the Niger Basin Authority, the Niger/Nigeria Joint Commission on Cooperation, and the
Lake Chad Commission. These institutions were sent official letters describing the project's intentions and
did not notify Government of any objections prior to negotiations.
H. Readiness for Implementation
C1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
LI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Daniel M. Sellen                 Joseph     Domoh                 Ant#ette M. ayeh
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                   Codntry Director
- 31 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NIGER: Private Irrigation Promotion
Key Perforrmance      . Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                         .            Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Rural poverty reduction and  * Increases in household  * Household surveys
improved food security     incomes                   * Trade statistics
through sustainable water  * Increases in exports of key  * Country and sector reports
management and capitalizing  irrigated products      * Census data
on regional growth        a Increases in food secure
opportunities               beneficiary households
Project Development        Outcome I Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To increase production and  * 30% average increase in  * Ministry of Agricultral  * Implementation of the
profitability of high-value,  yields for those receiving  Development reports and  National Irrigation Strategy
irrigated crops by private,  project advisory services  statistics             * No significantly adverse
smallholder farmers with  a 50% average increase in  * Project (PPIP and PIP2)   price conditions for irrigated
simple, low-cost technologies.  yields for those adopting  M&E reports           products/exports or key
treadle pumps and project  * Bank SPN and MTR reports  inputs
advisory services          Beneficiary assessments  * Government implements
* 30% average increase in                             sound macroeconomic and
yields for those adopting                            sectoral development
mechanized pumps and                                 policies to promote private
project advisory services                            sector led economic growth.
100% average increase in
profitability per hectare
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Advisory Services and  a # farmers successfully   * Semi-annual progress and  * Farmers maintain irrigation
Research                    adopting new technologies  SPN reports               equipment and progressively
# artisans trained in pump  Mid-term evaluation report  expand their plots
Simple, low-cost irrigation  repair and borehole     * Beneficiary assessments  a Land availability for
and production technologies  construction            * Project M&E reports       expansion
are developed, tested,    a # complementary research  * Household surveys      * Information and research is
improved, and disseminated  projects financed                                    received widely and used
to private farmers.       a # training events delivered                          productively by beneficiaries
* # new manual and                                   * Road taxes do place
a) Farmer Advisory Services  mechanized technologies                             excessive downward pressure
tested and developed                                 on farm-gate prices
Farmers are provided relevant
and effective advice on
production and marketing on
a regular and timely basis.
- 32 -



b) Participatory Research
Technologies to increase
irrigated production and add
value are developed and tested
with farmer participation
2. Capacity Building      * % increase in membership of * Semi-annual progress and * Producers willing to
GlEs                        SPN reports              organize and able to acquire
Existing organizations of  a # of beneficiaries trained in  * Mid-term evaluation  legal status
smallholder irrigators (GIEs)  administrative and financial  report            * Farmers are willing to use
are strengthened and new   management and related    * Beneficiary assessments  savings services
organizations created so that  themes                * Project M&E reports
their members are better  *# farmers trained in
placed to take advantage of  production, storage, and
new technologies.          processing
* % increase in membership of
a) Support to ANPIP and    savings associations
producer organizations      # of farmers who acquire
legal tenure rights through
ANPIP acquires increasing  project assistance
autonomy and sustainability,
and a network of farmer
organizations is strengthened
and participates actively in
the diversification and
intensification of irrigated
production.
b) Government Support
Government policy and
deconcentrated services are
better able to respond to the
needs of small irrigators
c) Private management of
ONAHA perimeters
Institutional and technical
models for private
management of ONAHA
perimters are tested for future
application.
3. Irrigation Investment  * % of grant applications   * Semi-annual progress   * Farmers find new
received and granted         and SPN reports         technologies affordable
Members of project-       * % of applications reviewed  * Mid-term evaluation
supported producer         for technical and economic   report
organizations and related  feasibility                * Beneficiary assessments
stakeholders are able to   % of applications which    * Project M&E reports
address their irrigation   meet review process
- 33 -



investment needs through a  guidelines
matching grant facility.  * % of total grant facility used
over time
a) Irrigation Investment Fund
A decentralized matching
grant facility is operational,
accessible, and used by
producers.
b) Support to Micro-finance
institutions
The capacity of MFIs to
manage irrigators' savings as
well as irrigation investment
funds is improved.
4. Environmental Protection * % of farmers notified and  * Semi-annual progress  * Water availability permits
.  using guidelines for fertilizer  and SPN reports     extraction rates suitable for
Minimization of adverse     use, chemical use, and    * Mid-term evaluation     increased irrigation
environmental and social    conservation measures        report
impacts from expansion of  * Stable or declining levels of  * Beneficiary assessments
smallholder irrigation, and  water pollution          * Project M&E reports
conservation and
improvement of the natural
resource base where possible.
5. Project management     * Establishment of sound    * Semi-annual progress    Special accounts put in place
project management systems   and SPN reports        for the management of project
ANPIP's supporting agencies  which permit efficient   * Mid-term evaluation     branch offices.
are efficiently and effectively  project implementation.  report
providing demand-driven   a Project executed in timely  * Beneficiary assessments
assistance to small farmers,  fashion and within budget  * Project M&E reports
operating on schedule, and
within budget.
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
1. Advisory Services and  $6.13 M                   * Trimestrial project progress
Research                                              reports; biannual Bank
supervision reports;
quarterly audits; Bank
disbursement reports; MDA
reports; Mid-term review
2. Capacity Building      $2.32 M                     Trimestrial project progress  Adequate capacity in private
reports; biannual Bank    sector to support irrigated
supervision reports;       production
quarterly audits; Bank
- 34 -



disbursement reports; MDA
reports; Mid-term review
3. Irrigation Investment  $28.72 M                  a Trimestrial project progress
reports; biannual Bank
supervision reports;
quarterly audits; Bank
disbursement reports; MDA
reports; Mid-term review
4. Environmental Protection  $2.29 M                  Trimestrial project progress
reports; biannual Bank
supervision reports;
quarterly audits; Bank
disbursement reports; MDA
reports; Mid-term review
5. Project Management     $8.53 M                     Trimestrial project progress  Ability to secure qualified
reports; biannual Bank    project management and
supervision reports;      implementation capacity to
quarterly audits; Bank    scale up ANPIP's activities
disbursement reports; MDA * Govemment supplies
reports; Mid-term review  counterpart funding on a
timely basis
PPF                       $0.40 M
- 35 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
NIGER: Private Irrigation Promotion
By Component:
Project Component I - US$6.13 million
1.0 Advisory Services and Research
Output: Simple, low-cost irrigation and production technologies are developed, tested, improved, and
disseminated to private farmers.
Sub-component 1.1: Participatory Research
Output: Technologies to increase irrigated production and add value are developed and tested with
farmer participation
Support to the development of private small irrigation comprises three activities: (i) demonstration and
dissemination of technical packages, supported by research, conclusively tested and deserving ownership by
irrigators; (ii) small scale testing of new technologies adapted to Niger's context and with the potential of
improving technical or economical results in participating farms; and (iii) support to the technical and
economic management of pilot farms willing to specialize in the irrigated market gardening towards their
actual integration into professional producers associations promoted by the project.
Demonstration and dissemination of technical packages: These will be conducted among selected market
gardeners. For example, packages in this context could include cultural practices or comparative testing of
improved varieties available in the market, planed protection methods, and technology maintaining the
productive potential of soil and water, such as mulching, companion planting, use of organic nutrients and
cultivation of soil improving legumes. Technologies for the storing of agriculture products (such as small
metallic silos) will also be widely disseminated.
Testing of new technologies: This will include practices that have already proven to be attractive and
effective elsewhere, such as drip irrigation. Such practices would aim at diversifying irrigated production
(aromatic and medicinal plants), providing access to less costly production factors (combined composting
using fresh vegetal and animal matters), profitable development of by-products (alternative techniques in
plant protection) and additional sources of income, etc. The mission of advisory services would also include
the monitoring of the fanning environment through the monitoring and preservation of locally available
resources, such as water and soil. The staff will be trained and equipped with soil testing kits and
conductivity meters to measure soil fertility and the quality of water collected for irrigation.
Technical support: This will aim at professionalizing of private irrigators and market gardeners and
integrating them in structured production associations. This will include management advisory services that
would design management and decision tools to help producers market quality products at the least cost.
The design of such tools would require multidisciplinary teams, staffed with rural engineering (irrigation)
technicians and agronomists (market gardening), as well as economists and/or marketing specialists, well
abreast of the production factors market (equipment, tools, input) and of the marketing of concerned
products (fresh or processed), and familiar with prices in different regions in the course of the year.
The AGEPIP will recruit an operator (consulting firm or international NGO) that will have responsibility
- 36 -



for programming, implementing and monitoring all activities under this component. The operator's mission
will be to train, assist, and guide management teams for all activities and help them establish relations with
suppliers, merchants, regional technical services, and associated projects.
Sub-component 1.2: Farmer Advisory Services
Output: Farmers are provided relevant and effective advice on production and marketing on a regular
and timely basis.
The objective of this sub-component is to disseminate technology and equipment developed during the
PPIP, as well as those developed during the second phase of the project. Such technologies will address the
collection of subterranean water (manually drilled bore holes, bore wells, platform with power pumps on
deep wells), water pumping (pedal or hand pumps, 3.5 to 5 hp power pumps) and water distribution (under
ground of low pressure plastic pipes, lining off small canals). Techniques to be tested during the second
phase will include storing, preservation, processing and marketing at farm level, the post-farm level being
addressed by the Agro-pastoral Export Promotion project. Techniques to be tested and possibly
disseminated include the collection and pumping of deeper water, pumps using renewable energy (wind,
sun, biomass, water flow velocity, improvements to power pumps, including the testing of Asian power
pumps cheaper than those locally available, new techniques for water distribution, including
micro-irrigation, hedgerow or possibly electrical fencing, improvements to traditional onions storing and
metallic silos, sun-drier of various types, oil presses for groundnuts, sesame, etc. The component would
finance farmer-to-farmer study visits between project sites in Niger and with the fadama sites in
neighboring Nigeria, as well as workshops, field trials, and field days. Advice will be extended to groups on
techniques to improve yield and quality (such as varieties, seeds, pesticides, fertilizer, and production
techniques). Information will be provided according to the demands of the market and environmentally
sound practices. The project may also consider financing research into complementary aspects of irrigated
production, such as seeds and other inputs.
As above, overall implementation of this sub-component will be entrusted to an operator selected through
international competition. The selected operator will be responsible for testing technologies and equipment
promoted by the project and training artisans in their manufacture and/or installation. The firm will also
provide support to management centers (see below) responsible for helping farmers in designing and
monitoring the implementation of technologies and equipment. The operator will need to meet pre-assigned
performance objectives in terms of the dissemination of equipment and of number of tests. With respect to
dissemination, key objectives are as follows for the duration of the project: 3,750 water points including
3,150 manually drilled bore holes, installed by artisans trained by AGEPIP; 3,150 manual and pedal
pumps sold by artisans trained by AGEPIP; about 9,500 power pumps bought on credit, including 9,250 of
3.5 hp; 5,000 hectares of new irrigated perimeters and 10,000 hectares of consolidated irrigated perimeters;
630 hectares developed with pipes or canals with appropriate lining to minimize water losses; 800 local
irrigation kits sold on or without credit, including about 750 specifically for women's gardens; 500
improved traditional granaries and 370 drying facilities or silos; 140 presses of different types for oil
extraction.
Project Component 2 - US$2.32 million
2.0 Capacity Building
Output: Existing organizations of smallholder irrigators (GIEs) are strengthened and new organizations
created so that their members are better placed to take advantage of new technologies.
- 37 -



Sub-component 2.1: Support to ANPIP andproducers' organizations
Output: ANPIP acquires increasing autonomy and sustainability, and a network offarmer organizations
is strengthened and participates actively in the diversification and intensification of irrigated production.
Support to ANPIP will emphasize the democratic operational framework put in place during the pilot phase
as well as the professionalization of ANPIP and the development of services meeting priority needs of its
membership. By project effectiveness, ANPIP will have drafted a strategic development plan carrying out
this objective and specifying services to be developed, the financial arrangements for its operation and the
strategies to be implemented. The plan will include an operational action plan allowing the development of
training modules for its membership on key topics (role and responsibility of the association and its
constitutive bodies, representation and of lobbying on behalf of its membership, etc.) and for the training of
trainers. The project will also contribute to the implementation of a communication strategy and plan as
well as to the development of professional services to its membership.
This component will help develop Management Advisory Centers to help strengthen associations of farmers
by helping them improve their capacity and develop professional services to meet the needs of their
membership. The development of Management Advisory Centers will build on lessons drawn from the
experience gained with the Economic Interest Groups (GIE) created during the pilot phase. The role of
Management Advisory Center will be broadened to include the provision of advice in the areas of
equipment selection, market opportunities identification, high value added product development, technical
packages to improve the marketing or productivity of existing agricultural commodities, in order to increase
the profit at farm level. They will also help irrigators and associations in preparing the documentation
required for project financing.
As the new service arm of GIEs, Management Advisory Centers will be developed in parallel with ANPIP
but would be able to collaborate more closely with the latter during the project and in the context of the
strategic development framework to be designed. New centers will be created to meet the needs of
irrigators, each time ensuring that the coverage in terms of services and geographical area could result in a
cost-effective operation. Advisory services will be demand driven, meeting the needs of irrigators who will
pay for the services they receive. User fees will progressively take over the financing of the costs of centers
starting the third year of the project. At par with the GIE during the pilot phase, Management Advisory
Centers will be mandated and remunerated for their services, including demonstrations and testing
requested by projects. One or more tariff and payment systems will be determined at the start of the project.
Different systems would be tested over the course of the project.
The execution responsibilities for the sub-components "Support to ANPIP" and "Support to producers'
organizations" will be entrusted to the same service provider, who will provide intensive methodology
support during the first year and selective support in subsequent years. The provider could be either a
farmers' organization or an NGO or a consultant with experience in the institutional development of
farmers' organizations. The operator will provide a methodology to help ANPIP further develop into a
professional organization, to structure advisory services to irrigators within the Management Advisory
Centers and to design and implement financial arrangements for the payment of advisory services by
producers, as well as to disseminate market information to the farmers. The project will help Management
Advisory Center start their activities with appropriate equipment.
Sub-component 2.2: Government support
- 38 -



Output: Government policy and deconcentrated services are better able to respond to the needs of small
irrigators
Public services: Under this component, the capacity of central and decentralized public services involved
in the implementation of the irrigation development strategy will be reinforced. The sub-component also
addresses key elements of the agriculture policy influencing directly the development of irrigation
sub-sector. More specifically, its objective is to strengthen the capacity of: (i) those services involved in the
design, management and operation of water works (problem identification, design of water works,
constructions, monitoring, management, operation and maintenance of water works) to help these services
become more effective in the design and implementation of activities; (ii) those services in charge of
controlling the quality of input sold on the market and of enforcing plants protection regulations in order for
services to improve border controls (forbidden plant protection products and quality of fertilizers); (iii)
providing advice to irrigators (extension, integration of environmental issues) and updating the technical
training of extension workers in major irrigated areas; (iv) responsible for providing on behalf of the
Ministry of Rural Development a framework for concerted efforts among all partners in implementing the
irrigation development strategy.
Training: A training plan (limited to short cycle training) will be formulated at the start of the projects and
updated at the time of the mid-term review. The plan will identify problem areas, training needs, users, best
training methodologies, costs and training centers with required capacity and modules. Its implementation
will be entrusted to the staff of AGEPIP. Training, as most other services in the project, will be
demand-driven. Hence the activity will be shaped by request made by other services as well as by the need
to conform to the agreed training plan. Services with access to such funds will have to conform to the
financial management procedures in the operations manual.
Support to the Special program of the President of Niger: This program aims at improving water
management in Niger through the creation of multiple uses water points serving the needs of people, rural
development and livestock. It plans to build three water works per year and per district: small dams, and
other water run-off structures. Its cost estimate of FCFA 2.5 billions is funded by the 2001 national budget,
and government plans to expand this program with external assistance. Civil works are decentralized in the
region but because of their technical expertise, the Ministry of Rural Development technical services, in
particular its Rural Engineering Directorate and its regional branches, play a key role in the design of
projects, even if the program calls upon private operators for implementation studies and construction
work. Progress during the first year of the program has been hampered by a lack of studies largely due to
great haste presiding in its launching. Field visits during the preparation of PIP2 have identified several
problems that will require repairing as soon 2002 dams that where build in 2001: (i) programming reflect
the demands of the population without properly taking into account environmental and social issues, the
integration of projects in watershed management plans, future development including management and
maintenance of civil works; (ii) technical studies should be improved, even if the context requires that they
be available quickly; (iii) construction should avoid simple errors on the use of material. The PIPP2 will
not participate directly to activities undertaken under the Special Program as its participation would involve
a full-fledged analysis of the program in accordance with World Bank directives, in particular those
pertaining to international water, resettlement of population, security of dams, environmental and social
assessments, protection of wetlands, etc. Instead, the project will support training of staff involved in the
program: (i) officials within the administration, including senior technical and political staff, in the area of
water management, including points mentioned above; (ii) senior staff in the administration, consultants
and construction companies on the management and maintenance of water works. The responsibility for
training execution would be entrusted to the operator responsible for implementing the environmental and
- 39 -



social sub-component.
Project oversight: The success of PIP2 rests to a largest extent on the CSO's ability to coordinate all
donors financed irrigation projects in Niger. The project will complement support to the OMC already
provided by the French government under the form of a technical assistant. PIP2 will provide a vehicle and
secretarial staff to the CSO secretary and will cover the cost of three annual meetings, including a meeting
in a region.
Sub-component 2.3: Private management of ONAHA perimeters
Output: Institutional and technical models for private management of ONAHA perimters are testedfor
future application.
This pilot sub-component will focus on the ONAHA perimeters of Djirataoua (near Maradi), Konni, and
Galmi. The implementation of this sub-component will rest on a contractual agreement between ANPIP and
ONAHA which is countersigned by MDA and which specifies the following operational modalities: (i)
revision of legal texts to separate water management and marketing functions; (ii) creation of water users'
associations to assume the water management function; and (iii) confirmation of the responsibilities of
cooperatives with respect to product marketing.
Project Component 3 - US$ 28.72 million
3.0 Irrigation Investment
Output: Members ofproject- supported producer organizations and related stakeholders are able to
address their irrigation investment needs through a matching grant facility.
Sub-component 3.1: Irrigation Investment Fund
Output: A decentralized matching grant facility is operational, accessible, and used by producers.
The Irrigation Investment Fund is a matching grant facility that will provide funds needed to buy inputs and
equipment needed for irrigation, market preparation (drying and packaging) and products storing and
preservation facilities. The fund will be managed by the AGEPIP and withdrawal of its proceeds will be
governed by an agreement between farmers' associations seeking the financing of their investments and
each participating micro-finance institution (MFI), such as MCPEC, PMR, N'GADA, the KOKARI/SICR
service cooperative.
The financing fund is demand-driven and its proceeds are used to meet requests for financial assistance
prepared by farmers' and other operators' associations involved in the development of private irrigation.
Projects proposed by fanners for financing through short-term credit (input credit) and medium term credit
(investment credit) would be eligible for fund financing, although working capital will not be subsidized.
Short-term and long-term financing requests will be presented separately. Farmers will be encouraged and
supported by the Management Advisory Centers mandated by AGEPIP to help them prepare a financing
proposal for an irrigation project and later to assist farmers in executing the projects. Prior to registering a
financing proposal, an individual farmer will need to deposit a down payment corresponding to the required
- 40 -



personal contribution to the financing in an escrow saving account. In accordance with current practices in
decentralized banking systems, farmers must provide a personal contribution corresponding to 30 percent
of their financing requests. On an exceptional basis, the personal contribution could be reduced to as much
as 10 percent to help the poorest farmers to acquire irrigation equipment, after evaluation of their capacity
to provide such contribution.
Similar to the grant facility planned under the Export Promotion project (PPEAP project), a fund
supporting collective infrastructure will be put in place to finance infrastructure investment required by the
development of irrigation. The financing of investment will be demand-driven, on the basis of project
proposals prepared by associations or individual. Eligible activities and financing terms will be specified at
appraisal. For example, they could include collective infrastructure such as diking, protection ditches,
aquifer recharging mechanism, infrastructures to improve access and crossing, storage investment, etc.
Moreover groundwater collection activities could be planned to strengthen the development of private
irrigation (watershed management to prevent dam and waterworks silting, etc.). The level of participation
by requesting organizations may vary according to activities and rates of return. The fund has been
allocated an amount of US $ 2.250 million.
Sub-component 3.2: Support to Micro-Finance Institutions (MFIs)
Output: The capacity of MFIs to manage irrigators 'savings as well as irrigation investment funds is
strengthened..
A capacity-building fund for MFIs will be put in place to strengthen and develop MFIs and their umbrella
organizations. Funds will be used to (i) strengthen the capacity of the MCPEC network (support to
operations and acquisition of techniques needed to rehabilitate the network); and (ii) provide technical
support to other networks assisting irrigators under this project; and (iii) support further development. The
strengthening of MFIs in the MCPEC network will benefit local savings and loans, involved in credit for
irrigation operations and requiring assistance in the form of human resources to support the monitoring and
repayment of their loans, of equipment (motorcycles) and of participation to the financing of their operating
cost. This support will be provided under the PDSFR for which bank assistance had been requested.
Technical support towards the professionalization of MFIs pertaining to other network and their umbrella
organizations will involve the training of staff in credit analysis and recovery techniques, the training of
managers on their role and responsibilities, the training of loan committees in recovery techniques and in
the use of repayment history, as well as the strengthening of umbrella organizations. In order to promote
the development of MFIs through the creation of branches or savings and loans association in the new
projects areas, financing has been put in place towards the installation, equipment and operating costs on a
declining base for new branches or savings and loans associations on the basis of about 20 additional
facilities of FCFA 8 million each.
Project Component 4 - US$2.29 million
4.0 Environmental protection
Output: Minimization of adverse environmental and social impacts from expansion ofsmallholder
irrigation, and conservation and improvement of the natural resource base where possible.
This component will take into account any negative aspects of micro-projects and will put in place an
environmental action plan aiming at mitigating environmental risks stemming from the development of
- 41 -



small irrigation. The project will finance studies, investments, technical assistance and capacity building
required to promote a sustainable use of water and soil resources in Niger. These are summarized in Annex
11, which proposes several measures to provide the project with an environmentally sound management
(proposed measures include institutional development, training and information of stakeholders) to be
implemented under this component. The proposed measures have been selected on the basis of three
different reports prepared by consultants following extensive field surveys and meetings with key
stakeholders of the project (representatives of the irrigators, senior civil servants and NGOs).
This subcomponent has the following objectives: (i) to protect and maintain the irrigated perimeters and the
sites where they are located; (ii) to protect the environment against potentially negative effects of the
development and use of irrigated perimeters, although their small surface (limited in most cases to less than
on hectare and never exceeds 10 hectares) makes a negative impact very unlikely; (iii) to monitor aquifers
against overuse and pollution; and (iv) to train project stakeholders (public services, AGEPIP, consulting
firms, agriculture support services, consumers, etc.) on environmental impact issues, techniques mitigating
environmental risks, in particular protection against wind and water erosion, and on their respective roles
within an comprehensive institutional arrangement. To achieve these objectives, AGEPIP will subcontract
activities to an operator selected on the basis of an international competition, who will carry out this
component. The operator will seek assistance from local consulting firm and NGOs and will receive the
support of short missions by international consultants, in particular for the monitoring of aquifers and soils.
Outside of the component, the budget of the matching grant facility will have a line item to finance
activities undertaken to protect irrigated perimeters against water or wind erosion (gully correction, sand
dunes protection). The operator would sub-contract works associated with such activities to NGOs or
consulting firms, while population would contribute with free manpower.
Project Component 5 - US$8.53 million
5.0 Project management
Output: ANPIP's supporting agencies are efficiently and effectively providing demand-driven assistance
to smallfarmers, operating on schedule, and within budget.
Institutional arrangements: Given its satisfactory performance in managing the first phase of the project,
government intends to award ANPIP a management contract for the execution of PIP2. The project will be
implemented under the authority of the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD), with an oversight
committee (the CSO) to be created to monitor the planning and implementation of program activities and to
ensure their conformity with national rural development objectives and strategies. ANPIP will create an
executing agency (AGEPIP) managed by a General Director and staffed with a minimal team that will have
responsibility for the coordination and supervision of activities, the execution of which will be largely
subcontracted to other operators.
Personnel Management: The recruitment procedure will involve the establishment of a recruitment
commission whose membership will include representatives from key project stakeholders (government,
ANPIP and donors), using pre-identified job and skills profiles. A consulting firm will be selected through
competitive bidding to handle the recruitment process, including the preparation of job descriptions and
wage structure, advertising the positions, reviewing applications, and recommending appropriate candidates
for the job. Management by objectives will be the method of choice for staff management. It is a systematic
effort to jobs more attractive, allowing the supervisor or the employee to contribute to their institution's
-42 -



objectives according to their level of competence. Staff performance will be evaluated in accordance with
agreed calendar and procedures that includes guidelines and forms to be used by management.
Financial management: A Procedures Manual currently govems ANPIP's administrative and financial
management. The Manual will be revised to reflect the increase in scope of the new project. A new
accounting software will be installed to streamline the management of projects. An auditing firm will be
recruited prior to signing the Credit Agreement. Financial management will meet the World Bank/IDA's
requirements for project implementation, a requirement that ANPIP has met satisfactorily during the first
phase. The proceeds of the IDA credit and Niger counterpart funds will be managed in a separate bank
account. Bank's procurement directives will apply, and thresholds for prior review by the Bank and
procurement methods (according to the expenditure categories) will be negotiated with the bank during
appraisal.
Monitoring an Evaluation: (for more details see Annex 14) AGEPIP will put in place an intemal
framework for M&E that will guide the work of its Monitoring and Evaluation Service (MES). This
framework is organized around three key activities: implementation monitoring, performance monitoring
and evaluation framework. Implementation monitoring will be an essential instrument to help the agency
organize its work in accordance with its work program and ensure the timely availability of resources to
key actors responsible for project activities. It also includes the monitoring of contract execution by service
providers who play a major role in the project implementation. Monitoring information will be presented in
tables comparing planned and actual progress with an explanation for deviations. Project performance
monitoring is based on major output and outcome indicators (detailed in the logical framework). The
Operations Manual will includes a detailed table of indicators, specifying the frequency for collecting
indicator data and the methodology of choice. The table constitutes a key element of the monitoring and
evaluation framework. The purpose of the evaluation framework is to put together a database to enable
project staff and extemal auditors to evaluate systematically and objectively the pertinence, effectiveness,
effects and impact of activities executed under the project. These data will be used during the project
mid-term and completion reviews. They will also provides AGEPIP with valuable information to manage
project execution. All data will be collected by project staff and outside consultant recruited to assist the
MES and will be integrated in activity reports. Regular operating budgets of the MES will be integrated in
AGEPIP's operating budget but supplemental budgets will be allowed to carry out studies, using extemal
resources.
- 43 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NIGER: Private Irrigation Promotion
Local         Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component                    US $million    US $million    US $million
1. Advisory Services and Research                                3.13           3.00          6.13
2. Capacity Building                                             1.32           1.00           2.32
3. Irrigation Investment                                        20.22           7.25         27.47
4. Environmental Protection                                      2.04           0.00           2.04
5. Project Management                                            8.53           0.00           8.53
6. PPF                                                           0.30           0.10           0.40
Total Baseline Cost                                             35.54          11.35         46.89
Physical Contingencies                                          0.00           0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                                             1.25           0.25           1.50
Total Project Costs'                 36.79          11.60         48.39
Total Financing Required                  36.79          11.60          48.39
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 48.39 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 80.02% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 44 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
NIGER: Private Irrigation Promotion
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows        -                   Fiscal Impact
Economic        Financial Analysis"
Analysis                                   Taxes            Subsidies
Benefits:                       25,527               21,774                 504                    0
Costs:                          18,312               21,499               3,623                    0
Net Benefits:                    7,215                2,757               4,127                    0
IRR:                               15%                 12%
Note: all values in thousands of $US.
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
At the level of field production (including only productive investments)
(thousands of US$)                  Economic value                     Financial value
Additional revenues from farming
25,527                             21,774
Additional costs of
investment                          2,920                              3,337
Net benefits                        22,607                             18,437
Internal rate of return                 108%                               82%
Global project level (including c sts of capacity-building and envi onmental protection)
(thousands of US$)                 Economic value                      Financial value
Additional revenues                    25,527                             21,774
Additional costs of
investment                         18,312                             21,499
Net benefits                        7,215                              2,757
Intemal rate of return                  15%                                12%
Main Assumptions:
Overall assumptions:
- 45 -



(i) The project has no recurrent costs because: a) it invests in smallholder irrigation that does not require
maintenance of works by the project or public sector; since it relies on private initiative, the maintenance
cost of small equipment will be bome by users; b) the staff in the project management unit work under
contract for the duration of the project and the functions it carries out will disappear when the project
closes, as Management Advisory Centers, established under the project and privately operated, will take
over the support to private irrigators and charge user fees for their services. Neither ANPIP nor the
govemment will need to pay in order to maintain functions carried out by the project management unit after
project closing.
(ii) IDA's contribution to the project is particularly important because of the economic situation of Niger.
Govemment contributes to the management unit operating costs. It also participates in the financing of
vehicles, gas and equipment as well as local staff through its granting of tax exemptions. The participation
of beneficiaries is actually much higher than shown in the project financing. In order to facilitate the
elaboration of the budget, only beneficiary participation to environmental protection works and rnral
investments have been taken into account. Furthermore, since the project will partially subsidize the
installation of the Management Advisory Centers, the technicians using these services will bring the
required complement of financing.
(iii) The percentage of participation for each institution has been calculated with COSTAB and
semi-annual disbursements. This computational method increases the govermment's financial contribution
at the start of the project, funds being retumed to the government at project closing.
At the level of developed sites:
The analysis uses three selected models of site development to be compared with the traditional water
lifting system by rope and calabash. Key features of these models stem from observations made during the
pilot phase of the project, making the selected models very realistic representations of existing situations.
The first model involves improvement created by a treadle pump (Gajera type), with hand dug well to
collect water, a Califomian network (PVC pipes) for water distribution and a hedgerow coupled with a
dead hedge during the first year. This model is adapted to small farms of less than 0.2 hectares, located in
dry valleys and getting water from shallow aquifers. The second model involves a 3.5 hp power pump, a
hand-dug well for water collection and a Califomian network for its distribution, as well as hedgerow
coupled with a dead hedge during the first year. This model is adapted to 0.9 hectares farms, located in dry
valleys and pumping water from aquifers. The third model involves a 5-hp power pump pumping water
from the river and distributing it by gravity through a main canal and a network of secondary dirt canals.
The farm is fenced with a hedgerow coupled with a dead hedge during the first year. This model is adapted
to 2 hectares farms located near embankments along the Niger and Komadougou rivers. The pre-project
model involves a traditional well where water was lifted with rope and calabash and distributed in dirt
canals. The farm, which is fenced with a dead hedge, is very small, not exceeding 0.1 hectare. It is found
everywhere in Niger, where the aquifer is very close to the ground.
Farming models have been associated with these site development models. In an improved situation, the
agricultural season comprises two cycles on the entire available area (therefore the cultural intensity is 200
%), with rainy season cultivation (com and cowpeas on occupying half of the cultivation area and market
gardening on the other half) and out-of-season production (market gardening). Diversification guides the
selection of Crops to avoid glutting of markets. In pre-project situation, irrigation was only used for
out-of-season production (100 % cultural intensity) and for market gardening.
In improved situations, several factors lead to an increase in productivity for all productions: (i) a better
-46 -



irrigation technique reduces space loss due to the water distribution systems; (ii) the appropriate use of
input (high quality seeds, fertilizer, compost and pesticide) as a result of technical advice promoted by the
project results in increase in yields and better prices; (iii) storing techniques disseminated by the project
result in a reduction of post-harvest losses. However, given the need for farners to adjust to new irrigation
models, yields obtained with improved systems may at first be inferior to regular yields during a year or
two. Also, financial costs have been considered in productions using improved models by taking into
account the credit component of the project.
The selected models apply to typical situations. However, in reality, improvements are demand driven and
therefore it is not possible to calculate ex ante all possible cases.
Detailed analysis of the cost effectiveness of the models
The economic analysis takes into account customs and internal taxes and fees that influenced: (i) the
construction costs incurred in developing the sites and in manufacturing the equipment; (ii) agricultural
input; (iii) gas and lubricants. Also, the economic price of com includes the cost of opportunity for com
imported from the US. Economic and financial rates of return have been computed over 10 years,
corresponding to the duration of two successive equipment lifetimes, and allowing for a better amortization
of costs associated with the use of intensive agriculture installations and techniques. Economic and
financial rates of return of the selected models are displayed in the table below. Financial IRTs measure the
rate of return of the farmer's investment.
Models                           Treadle pumps      Motor pumps        Motor pumps
3.5 hp             5 hp
Financial IRR                    73%                75%                 124%
Economic IRR                     95%                100%                158%
All selected models have proven to be cost effective.
At the level of productive investment
Cost assumptions in the costs benefit analysis at the level of productive investments under the project are as
follows:
*   100 % of costs in component 1 (support to development and research);
* 10 % of the costs associated with strengthening ANPIP;
* 100 % of the costs associated with the strengthening with farmers' and operators' organizations,
including Management Advisory Centers;
* 5 % of the costs associated of the strengthening of public services;
* 100 % of the funds to finance short and medium term private irrigation;
* 50 % of the costs of support rural investments;
*   15 % of the costs involved in environmental protection;
* 100 % of the project administration, coordination and monitoring costs.
Capacity of markets to absorb new market gardening productions
Market gardening areas represent about 56,000 hectares. The physical production is difficult to estimate
-47 -



because of the diversity of products. Using a basket of products, the actual yield is estimated to be 16 t/ha,
corresponding to a global production of 900,000 tons.
The project will result in increased market gardening acreage and yields. The additional market gardening
production is estimated to be 175,000 tons, corresponding to 19 % increase in market gardening
production. During the project, population will increase by about 14 %, absorbing an equivalent proportion
in the production of vegetables. Therefore, the remaining increase (5 %) will need to be absorbed by the
growth in other regional markets. The existence of the World Bank financed Agro-pastoral Exports
Promotion Project could contribute to achieve this increase. '
The PIP2 has taken measures to avoid glutting the markets with market gardening products. Part of the
newly irrigated areas will be cultivated with com and cowpeas, less profitable but enjoying a stable market.
Also, the project has identified a wide range of possible products (more than 40 different agricultural
products) including products with limited but new market niches. Furthermore, with improved products
storing resulting from the project (small farming equipment), it will be easier to stretch over time the
product availability for marketing and consumption.
Beneficiaries' capacity to repay financing obtained under the project
Farmers in developed sites will need to invest in new equipment and will require the project assistance to
finance the new investment. With or without matching grants, the cash flow will be sufficient to allow
repayment of annuities while maintaining a higher income compared to the pre-project income, starting the
second year. The matching grants, that could lower the farmers down payment from 30 % to 10 %, appears
to greatly facilitate the adoption of new technologies by countering the decline in available income, which is
very noticeable in the first year (corresponding to the investment).
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity has been computed using the critical value method, i.e. the value of critical parameters leading
to an IRR of 12 %. The sensitivity has been calculated for the costs of investments, the yield of cultivation
and the prices obtained for the products.
Models                          Treadle pumps     Motor pumps        Motor pumps
3.5 hp             5 hp
Switching values (financial)
Investment cost                 240%              300%               740%
Yield                           -29.5%            -27.5%             -29.5%
Price                          -44.5%             -42%               -45.2%
Switching values (economic)
Investment cost                 360%              430%               940%
Yield                           -34.7%            -34%               -35.1%
Price                           -52%              -51.5%             -53.5%
The analysis shows that results are not very sensitive to an increase in the costs of investment combined
with a decline in yield and prices, in particular in the model involving the 5 hp power pump.
- 48 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NIGER: Private Irrigation Promotion
Years Ending
|'  -    ;    . IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD      -
Year 1 FYeanr 2a       Year 3 9  Year 4       1 Year 5  Year 6     0 Year.7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          8.4        8.7       8.9     1l.2       10.7       0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.3        0.3       0.3       0.3       0.4       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         8.7       9.0       9.2       10.4      11.1       0.0      0.0
.Total Financing            8.7        9.0       9.2      10.4      11.1       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  6.7       6.6       7.7       8.6       9.1       0.0       0.0
Government                1.8       2.1       1.1        1.2      1.3       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Beneficiaries             0.2       0.3       0.4       0.6       0.7       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    8.7        9.0       9.2      10.4      11.1      0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
-49 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NIGER: Private Irrigation Promotion
Procurement
General
1. A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Niger was carried out in 1998, which found
that in general national procedures for the procurement of works, goods and services are acceptable to IDA
subject to a few amendments. So far the findings of the CPAR remain valid. No special exceptions,
permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for International Competitive Bidding
(ICB), since Niger's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary
provisions in local regulations. National Competitive Bidding (NCB), advertised locally, would be carried
out in accordance with Niger's procurement laws and regulations acceptable to IDA, provided that they
assure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with key objectives of the Bank
Guidelines. For NCB procedures, the following principles have been adhered to: (i) any bidder is given
adequate response time (four weeks) for preparation and submission of bids; (ii) bid evaluation and bidder
qualification criteria are clearly specified in bidding/pre-qualification documents and not be applied
arbitrarily; (iii) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (iv) award is made to the lowest
evaluated bidder; (v)no preference margin is granted to domestic contractors and suppliers (vi) award will
be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with pre-determined and transparent methods; (vii)
bid evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid; and (viii) prior to
issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents prepared as annexes to the Procedures
Manual are submitted to IDA and found acceptable.
2.     Goods and works financed by IDA shall be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999) (The Guidelines). The Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) and Standard Evaluation
Report will be used for ICB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) would be carried out using the Bank's
SBD with appropriate modifications in relation to provisions relating to "advertising and notification",
"currencies of bid and payment", "settlement of disputes", and deletion of the domestic preference
provision, etc. Under NCB, the procedures should ensure that: (i) methods used in evaluation of bids and
the award of contracts are made known to all bidders and not be applied arbitrarily; (ii) any bidder is given
adequate response time (four weeks) for preparation and submission of bids; (iii) bid evaluation and bidder
qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iv) no preference margin is granted to domestic
manufacturers; (v) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (vi) award will be made to the lowest
evaluated bidder in accordance with pre-determined and transparent methods; (vii) bid evaluation reports
will clearly state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid; (viii) prior to issuing the first call for bids,
draft standard bidding documents prepared as annexes to the Procedures Manual are submitted to IDA and
found acceptable.
3.     Consultant services contracts financed by IDA credit will be procured in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997
revised in September 1997 and January 1999). The Standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the
Bank, will be used for appointrnent of Consultants.
4.     Small works, goods and services for irrigation sub-projects financed by the matching grant and
involving the construction, repair, rehabilitation and equipment aimed at increasing irrigated production,
- 50 -



such as irrigation infrastructure, agricultural product storage, etc. shall be governed when applicable by the
Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February
1998) and the Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
5.     A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and published in the United Nations
Development Business at time of negotiations to advertise for major consulting assignments and any ICB.
Publication of a GPN to be published in the national press or official gazette is also required for NCB. The
program elements by disbursement category, their estimated costs, and procurement methods are
summarized in Table A below. Consultant selection methods and thresholds for procurement methods and
prior review are summarized in Tables Al and B below. A procurement capacity assessment was carried
out as part of the institutional analysis prior to the appraisal mission. As a result, an action plan was
agreed to address areas where the existing structures still need to be strengthened to meet performance
criteria for PMR-based disbursement and to scale up from the pilot phase. The action plan includes: (i) the
hiring of additional projectprocurement specialists for the project "antennes", (ii) training sessions and
technical assistance in procurement and contract management as necessary, (iii) a procurement planning
and contract management system integrated in the computerized Financial management system to be
installed at the Project Implementation Unit, (iv) a large section on procurement in the Project
Implementation Manual to be finalized before effectiveness, (v) the reorganization of the filing of
procurement-related documents.
6.     Procurement Status and Proposed Arrangements. Procurement would be managed by the Project
Implementation Unit which will include a procurement specialist and would use consultants as necessary to
carry out specific tasks. The recruitment of all positions in the Project Implementation Unit should be
acceptable to IDA prior to credit effectiveness and during the life of the project.
7.     Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the
Borrower for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. The Project Implementation
Unit would be required to prepare a computer-based system to monitor that the aggregate amounts agreed
upon would not be exceeded during the life of project implementation.
8.     Project Implementation Manuel (PIM). The PIM has been finalized. It will serve as a practical
guide describing procedures agreed upon in the DCA. It will include: (i) procedures for calling for bids,
selecting consultants, and awarding contracts; (ii) internal organization for supervision and control,
including operational guidelines defining the role of the executing agency and reporting requirements and,
(iii) disbursement procedures. The PIM will be examined during negotiations and adopted before credit
effectiveness. In any case, a version acceptable to IDA will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
9.     During negotiations, the Government will review and agree with IDA on standard bidding
documents to be used under NCB procedures for Goods and works. The Government will also give
assurance that it will: (i) use the Project Implementation Manual; (ii) use the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection of consultants, and the Standard
Bid Evaluation Reports; (iii) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above; (iv)
update the procurement plan on a regular basis during annual reviews with IDA and other donors, to
compare target times and actual completion, and transmit it to IDA, during implementation, with all
procurement-related documents; and (v) carry out, during annual reviews, an assessment of the
effectiveness of bidding procedures and performance, as they relate to the program's procurement
experience, and propose for IDA and other donors' consideration any modification to the current procedures
to the extent that would accelerate procurement, while still maintaining compliance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines and adequate control over contract awards and payments.
- 51 -



Civil Works
10.    There will be only one major civil work contract under the project and which will be financed by
IDA. It is estimated at US$ 0.26 million and will cover the rehabilitation of the headquarters of ANPIP.
This contract would be procured through NCB and will be managed by the PIU. Contractor classification
will be made known to all bidders.
Goods
11.    Procurement of computer equipment, office equipment and materials, locally available at
economical price and costing less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.3
will follow NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Procurement of vehicles and motorcycles up to an
aggregate amount of US$150,000 would be carried through ICB. Goods that cannot be grouped into bid
packages of US$20,000 or more may be procured through national/intemational shopping according to
procedures acceptable to IDA, or through IAPSO. The Borrower would award the contract, on the basis of
written solicitation issued to at least three qualified suppliers, following evaluation of bids received in
writing from such qualified suppliers. The award would be made to the supplier with the lowest price
quotation for the required goods, provided he still has the experience and resources to execute the contract
successfully.
12.   IDA Reviews. Contracts financed by IDA above the threshold value of US$ 1 00,000 equivalent for
Goods will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures in accordance to Appendix I of the Guidelines. The
review process would cover about 70% of the contract amounts for goods and consultants -- see Table B
below.
Consultants Services
13.    Consulting Services financed by IDA would be for (i) studies, supervision, support of project
implementation, financial management support, financial audits; and (ii) consultancies on technical matters
and training--skills gap analysis and skills development. Consultants financed by IDA, totaling US$ 12.80
million, would be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 revised in September 1997, and January 1999).
Selection would be based on competition among qualified short-listed firms through Quality-and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposals before combining quality and cost
evaluation by weighting and adding the quality and cost scores. The Project Implementation Unit would
ensure widely publicized expression of interest to get candidacy from consultants. Based on agreed upon
criteria, the Project Implementation Unit will maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to
establish short-lists. Short-lists of consultants for contracts estimated under US$50,000 may be comprised
entirely of national consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are locally available
at competitive costs. This would particularly apply to contracts for specialized studies with NGOs.
However, if foreign firms have expressed interest for those contracts, they will not be excluded from
consideration.
12.    Other methods would also apply. For audits and other services of a standard nature estimated to
cost less than US$ 100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 5.88 million. Consultants services for small
studies, short term assignments, project implementation which can be delivered by individuals or firms and
costing less than US$ 20,000, up to an aggegate amount of US$ 0.30 million, would be selected through
comparison of qualifications among individual consultants (IC) expressing interest in the assignment or
- 52 -



approached directly.
13.   IDA Reviews. Bank Staff will review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed
by the Borrower in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for Consultants.
14.    The Government will also give assurance at negotiations that it will take the necessary measure to
ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:
Procurement Phases       Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding   4 (6 for large contracts)
documents
Preparation of bids by   4 (6-10 for ICB)
bidders
Bid evaluation           2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature of Contracts   2
Payments                 3
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB          Other        N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00            0.26         0.00          0.00       0.26
(0.00)         (0.18)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.18)
2. Goods                           0.70            0.31          0.00         0.00        1.01
(0.46)         (0.22)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.68)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00         12.80         0.00       12.80
(0.00)          (0.00)       (12.80)      (0.00)      (12.80)
4. Matching Grants for             0.00            0.00         31.01         0.00       31.01
Sub-projects
(0.00)         (0.00)        (23.23)      (0.00)      (23.23)
5. Operating Costs                 0.00            0.00          2.83         0.00       2.83
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.43)       (0.00)      (1.43)
6. Line of Credit                  0.00            0.00          0.00         0.48       0.48
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                            0.70           0.57         46.64         0.48       48.39
(0.46)         (0.40)        (37.46)       (0.00)     (38.32)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/Includes consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training,
matching granst for sub-projects and incremental operating costs related to project implementation and
management.
Note: PPF amount of USD 400,000 not included in table.
- 53 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
'Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS   QBS     SFB    LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              6.67    0.00    0.00   0.25     0.00    0.00    0.00    6.92
(6.67)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.25)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (6.92)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    5.88   0.00     5.88
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (5.88)  (0.00)   (5.88)
Total  6.67    0.00    0.00   0.25     0.00    5.88    0.00    12.80
(6.67)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.25)  (0.00)  (5.88)  (0.00)  (12.80)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 54 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)    .-      Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works
Rehabilitation works for  Between $50,000 and           NCB                  Prior Review
ANPIP's HQs                   $300,000                                         $50,000
Small works for            $20,000 or more        National Shopping          Prior Review
sub-projects                                                             (the first 3 contracts)
2. Goods                   Above $100,000               ICB                  Prior Review
(all contracts)
$100,000
Above $50,000               NCB                  Prior Review
(the first 3 contracts in an
amount exceeding $50,000)
Less than $20,000       National Shopping
Post Review
3. Services                                                            Prior Review (TORs, short
Consulting Firms          $50,000 and above            QCBS             lists, draft contracts, RPs,
Audits                                                                     selection report)
$100,000
$50,000 and above             LCS
Prior Review (TORs, short
Individual Consultants                                                 lists, draft contracts, RPs,
selection report)
Less than $20,000     Comparison of at least 3      $50,000
CVs                  Post Review
(Except for TORs)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  70 percent of total
costs
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six (6) months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 55 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
A computerized accounting and integrated financial management system will be set up and assessed by
IDA as a condition of effectiveness. The system will allow inputs at different levels to capture all
disbursements that will be effected under the project. The project will be implemented over a five-year
period and it is expected to close by 02/28/2007.
(a) Statement of Expenditures: Disbursements for all expenditures should be against full
documentation except for items of expenditures under contracts of less than: (a) $100,000 for civil
works and goods; (b) $100,000 for consultant services contracts for firms; (c) $50,000 for
consultant services contracts for individuals as well as (d) all training and operating costs, which will
be claimed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documentation for
SOEs will be retained at the Project Implementation Unit and will be readily accessible for review by
periodic Bank supervision missions and external auditors;
(b) Special Account and 90-day advance accounts: To facilitate project implementation, the
Government will open a Special Account in FCFA in a commercial bank in Niamey on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation will be FCFA 1,400,000,000 and will
cover about 4 months of eligible expenditures. Upon credit effectiveness, IDA will deposit the
amount of FCFA 700 million representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation into the Special
Account. The remaining balance will be made available when the total commitments amount to the
equivalent of USD 5 million. The Special Account will be used for all payments in an amount below
20 % of the initial deposit to the Special Account. Replenishment applications will be submitted
monthly. Further deposits by IDA into the Special Account will be made against withdrawal
applications supported by appropriate documents.
In addition to the main Special Account, the Government will open five 90-day advance accounts in
commercial banks or Micro-Finance Institutions (MFIs) in the five regions where the project will be
implemented, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The Government shall
withdraw from the main Special Account and deposit an amount not to exceed FCFA 30 million into
each 90-day Advance Account. Funds will be used for payments of goods, works and services as
well as for the micro-projects granted to Farmer Organizations.
Flow offunds
The Special Account would be managed by the Project Implementation Unit which would use it to pay for all
the eligible expenditures. The Project Implementation Unit would ensure that all disbursements are effected
in accordance with Bank procedures. The Project Implementation Unit will have responsibility for the
production of the annual consolidated financial statements.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Civil Works                                0.18                        70%
Goods                                      0.68          100% of foreign expenditures and 70%
of local expenditures
Consultant Services and Audit              9.00                        100%
23.23               100% of amounts disbursed
- 56 -



Matching Grants for Sub-projects
Operating Costs                            1.43                         85%
Refunding of PPF                           0.40                     Amount due
Unallocated                                3.80                         N/A
Total Project Costs                        38.72
Total                                      38.72
Letter of Agreement on the financial report ("Side Letter")
The Project Management Unit (PMU) will provide quarterly financial reports. The financial statements of
the project will be prepared according to established accounting practices and should include (i) an up-date
on the physical aspect of the project; (ii) the sources and use of funds, (iii) the use of funds by type of
expenditure, (iv) a follow-up of extemal reports; (v) general procurement reports. The audited financial
statements must be forwarded to the IDA no later than (6) months after the end of the fiscal year.
The computerized accounting system will be used to produce the required follow-up financial reports in the
format specified in the accounting and finance directives in effect in Niger.
In witness whereof, I , Minister of Agricultural Development of Niger, Head of the Delegation for
negotiating the promotion of private irrigation, second phase, have established the present Letter of
Agreement with all the advantages thereto pertaining.
Signed in Washington, this Friday February 15, 2002
His Excellency, Honorable Wassalke Boukary, Minister of Agricultural Development
- 57 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NIGER: Private Irrigation Promotion
Project Schedule                                   Planned            -        Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       8                            9
First Bank mission (identification)             02/12/2001                   02/12/2001
Appraisal mission departure                      10/01/2001                   10/29/2001
Negotiations                                    01/14/2002                    02/13/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    09/02/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Agricultural Development (MDA) and the Assocation Nigerienne de Promotion de l'Irrigation
Privee (ANPIP)
Preparation assistance:
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO):
* Amadou Soumaila, Irrigation Engineer
* Didier Comet, Agronomist
* Michel Erusue, Agricultural Economist
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Daniel Sellen                      AFTR2, Project leadership from HQ
Salifou Mahaman                    AFMR2, Project leadership from Country Office
Wilda Sajous                       AFTR2, Project assistance from HQ
Hadidia Djimba                     AFMNE, Project assistance from Country Office
Soulemane Fofana                   AFTR2, Operations analyst
Renee Desclaux                     LOAAF, Disbursement
Henri Aka                          AFTQK, Procurement
Mamadou Yaro                       AFMNE, Financial management
Hans Wabnitz                       LEGAF Counsel
Solange Alliali                    LEGAF Counsel
Sheila Braka                       LEGAF Counsel
Ariel Dinar                        RDV, Peer reviewer
Salah Dargouth                     MNSRE, Peer reviewer
Safwat Abdel-Dayem                 RDV, Peer reviewer
Tracy Hart                         AFTU2, Peer reviewer
Willem Zijp                        AFTQK, Quality assurance
Wolfgang Chadab                    LOAAF, Disbursement
- 58 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NIGER: Private Irrigation Promotion
A. Project Implementation Plan
"Manuel d'Execution". Ministry of Agricultural Development, December 2001.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Peer reviews: Ariel Dinar, Lead Economist (RDV); Safwat Abdel-Dayem, Drainage Advisor (RDV);
Salah Dargouth, Sector Manager (MNSRE)
Other reviews: Geert Diemer, Sr. Water Resources Management Specialist (RDV), Tracy Hart, Economist
(AFTU2), Elizabeth Morris-Hughes, Sr. Operations Officer (AFTH3), Josef Toledano, Sr. Rural
Development Specialist (AFTR2), Willem Zijp, Operations Adviser (AFTQK), and William Steel, Sr.
Advisor (AFTPS).
C. Other
Project files:
* Minutes of the Concept Review Meeting (January 29, 2001)
* Statement of Mission Objectives for the Preparation Mission (August 3, 2001)
* Letters to countries sharing international waters with Niger (August 2, 2001)
* PHRD application (January 5, 2001)
* Minutes of the Decision Meeting (October 22, 2001)
*   Statement of mission objectives, Aide Memoire, and back-to-office report from Appraisal mission,
(November 2001)
* Minutes of Negotiations (February 15, 2002)
Consultants' studies:
* Etude sur la situation de ref6rence de l'irrigation privee au Niger realisee par MM. Idrissa
ABDOULAYE et Aliou KOURE.
* Etude sur l'evaluation sociale du projet de Promotion de l'Irrigation Privee (PPIP) realisee par le
Cabinet d'etudes et conseils Mamna Boukar (Consultant Abdoulaye CHALARE ).
*   Etude sur les Mecanismes de fmancement realisee par le bureau d'etudes Fortin, Walsh et Associes
(Consultant Errol LAPIERRE).
* Etudes sur la commercialisation des produits issus de la petite irrigation realisee par UPA
Developpement International (UPA DI) (Consultant Guy RICHARD charge de Programme).
* Etude sur les Besoins en Recherche-Developpement realisee par le bureau d'etudes BUNICER
(Consultant Mossi MaYga ILLIASSOU) et Monsieur GADELLE.
* Etude sur le Renforcement des capacites des organisations paysannes realisee par SOFRECO
(Consultant Intemational Monsieur Gerard DEHAYES assiste de MM. Badamassi DJARIRI et
- 59 -



Ibrahim MAMAN SANI, consultants nationaux de BUNEC).
*   Etude sur les types d'amenagements, les modeles d'exploitation par zone homogene cible et les
mecanismes d'appui realisee par BUNEC: consultants Yahaya MADOUGOU, Habou ATCHABI,
Amadou ABOUBACAR, Ibrahim MAZOU, Elh.Maman SADOU
*   Etude sur le Montage institutionnel du Projet realisee par Fortin, Walsh et Associes (consultant
Camille TREMBLAY).
*   Etude sur la reforme de la gestion des Amenagements hydro-agricoles ONAHA realisee par BRLi
(Consultant Guy FRANCOIS).
* Etude sur l'lmpact Environnemental r6alisee par Fortin, Walsh et Associes (Consultant International
Monsieur Pierre ROY) et GERDA (Consultant national Monsieur Hassane KIMBA).
*   Etude de la Problematique fonciere appliquee a l'agriculture irriguee realisee par Monsieur Moussa
YACOUBA.
*   Etude sur les amrnagements hydro-agricoles et le programme special du President realisee  par Geert
DIEMER, Consultant.
*   Etude sur les mecanismes de collaboration entre le PIP2 et PPEAP realisee par Laval TREMBLAY,
UPA Developpement International.
*   Documents de travail qui vont accompagner le PAD: Cadre logique et cadre de suivi - evaluation
(Raymond AUDETTE) en cours de r6daction; Analyse agricole et propositions d'interventions (Didier
CORNET) en cours de redaction; Analyse technique (Francois GADELLE)
*Including electronic files
- 60 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NIGER: Private Irrigation Promotion
06-Feb-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA                          Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P069569        2002 Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit              0.00      70.00                           0.00      39.34     -29.65      0.00
P061558        2001 WATER SECTOR PROJECT                              0.00      48.00                           0.00      45.40      -0.81      0.00
P058730        2000 Agro-pastcral Export Promotion Project            0.00      10.35                           0.00       8.53     .1.06       0.00
P051272        1999 PRIVATIZJREG.REFORM                               0.00      18.60                           0.00      11.49      12.26      0.00
P035608        1998 TRANSP. INFRA. REHAB                              0.00      28.00                           0.00       8.81       3.91      0.00
P049691        1997 URBAN INFRAS. REHAB.                              0.00      20.00                           0.00       7.96       7.78      6.92
P001999        1997 HEALTH It                                         0.00      40.00                           0.00      12.42      16.12      0.00
P001967        1996 NATURAL RES. MGMT                                 0.00      26.70                           0.00       3.34       6.14      3.81
Total:        0.00     261.65                           0.00      137.30     14.70      10.73
NIGER
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                   Disbursed
IFC                                        IFC
FY Approval               Company                                  Loan     Equity      Quasi      Partic      Loan     Equity       Quasi     Partic
Total Portfolio:                  0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval              Company                                      Loan       Equity        Quasi         Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                    0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
- 61 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NIGER: Private Irrigation Promotion
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Niger     Africa  Income      Development dlamond*
2000
Population, mid-vear (millions)                      10.8      659     2,459                 Life expectancy
GNI Per capita {Atlas method, USS)                   180       480       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                      1.9      313     1.030
Average annual growth, 1994.00
Population (94)                                       3.4       2.6       1.9
Labor force (%J                                       3.1       2.6      2.4      GNI                            Gross
per           ,primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita          ,   ,       enrollment
Povertv (% of Population below national povertV line)
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)               21        34        32
Life expectancv at birth (years)                      46        47        59
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)             116        92        77
Child malnutrition (I% of children under 5)           50         ..       ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (I% of population)  59       55        76
Illiteracy (% of Population age 15+)                  84        38        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  29       78        96            Niger      Low-income group
Male                                                36        85       102
Female                                              23        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                           2.5      2.4       2.0       1.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP               28.1      8.3      10.2      10.4
Exports of ooods and services/GDP           24.6     15.4      15.9     15.5                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  14.6      1.2       3.7      2.9
Gross national savinas/GDP                                      2.5       1.3
Current acccunt balance/GDP                                    -7.8     -9.4      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                        2.6      1.0       0.1      0.3                                 Investment
Total debU/GDP                              34.4     71.5      80.9      87.6     s                 1
Total debt servicetexports                  21.7     25.2      23.3     28.1
Present value of debtVGDP                                      54.5
Present value of debt/exports                                 316.6
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                -0.5      2.7     -0.6       0.1      4.4             Niger       Low-income group
GOP per capita                     -3.7     -0.8     -3.8      -6.2       1.7
Exports of aoods and services      -3.8      5.8    -10.7       1.9      5.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
f% of GDP)                                           388
Agriculture                                 43.1     36.2      40.7     38.8
Industry                                    22.9     16.6      17.2     17.6     sx
Manufacturing                              3.7      6.8       6.5       6.8
Services                                    34.0     47.2      42.1     43.6
Private consumption                         75.1     83.4      81.4     84.4     -50
General government consumption              10.4     15.4      14.9      12 7             -   G  IDI    - cGDP
Imports of goods and services               38.1     22.6      22.4     23.1
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                  1.7      3.2      -5.0     -4.7     30
Industrv                                    -1.7      2.0       2.2      2.9    1es
Manufacturing                              -2.7     2.6       4.5       4.6     0
Services                                    -3.3      1.8       2.8      3.3      o      x    906
Private consumPtion                         -1.0      3.4       0.3      5.5
General oovernment consumption               51      -1.8      14.4    -13.0    -30
Gross domestic investment                   -5.5      2.3      -8.8      6.8                  Exports  --*-Imports
Imports of aoods and services               -5.9     -2.6     -19.2     -0.5
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-arouo averaqe. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-62 -



Niger
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999      2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic Prices
(% change)                                                                         45
Consumer Drices                                       -1.5       2.3       2.9
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..     -1.6       2.0       4.5
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       9
Current revenue                                       11.6       9.8      10.2    *gs
Current budget balance                         ..     -2.1      -3.5      -2.3           -     GDP defator    O  CPI
Overall surplus/deflcit                         .    -11.7      -9.0      -7.4
TRADE
(USS millions)                              1980     1990       1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          576      303        287      253    6ao
Uranium                                      ..      222       106        90
Livestock                                                                        4045  51  49 4
Manufactures                                 ..
Total Imports (cdf)                             *     359        317      298
Food                                                  40        28        20     20   _
Fuel and energy                              ..       27        27        38
Capital goods                                        148        70        67      o   _    _          _    _    _ 
Export price Index (1995=100)                  ..       ..       104      105          94    95   95   97   98   99    00
Import Price Index (1995=100)                  ..       ..       123      139                 * Exports    * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       ..        84       75
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1980     1990       1999     2000      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services                617      382        321      283       0
Imports of goods and services                956      536        452      424
Resource balance                            -340      -154      -131     -141      .s
Net Income                                    51        2        -20      -19          *         II"                 '
Net current transfers                         97       25         -5      -11      10
Current account balance                      -192     -127      -156     -170     .     -
Financing Items (net)                        139      149        134      199
Changes In net reserves                       53       -22        22      -29     *20 -
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (USS miins)            ..      10         46       78
Conversion rate (DEC. Iocal/USS)            211.3    272.3     614.9     710.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    11"0       1999      2000
(USS millions)                                                                     Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         863     1.726     1.617     1,577
IBRD                                         0        0          0        0                     G: 78
IDA                                         66      461       694       723                F: 26
Total debt service                           141       99         51       46
IBRD                                         0        0         0         0         E: 438
IDA                                          1        4         11       14          .:723
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             51      226         96       80
Official creditors                          74       82         37       56
Private creditors                          150       10        -23      -23
Foreign direct investment                   49        -1        2        12              0:309
Portfolio equity                             0        0          0        0                          C:74
World Bank program
Commitments                                 37       20         83       58      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               18       55         26       68      B - IDA  D - Other mulblateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         0        1          7        8      c - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                    18       54         19       60
Interest payments                            0        3         4         6
Net transfers                               18       51         14       54
Development Economics                                                                                               10/9/01
-63-



Additional
Annex 1 1
Monitoring and evaluation summary
Monitoring
The purpose of monitoring is to measure progress in project implementation in real time, using a
appropriately designed information system, and to verify the conformity of resources and achievement with
work plans as well as the conformity of results to general and specific project objectives. Monitoring
enables project management and operators to take corrective actions as needed during project
implementation on the basis of the early identification and analysis of deviation from the desired path.
Responsibility for the consolidated monitoring system in PIP2 will be entrusted to the monitoring and
evaluation service (MES) reporting directly to the Director General of the Agency. The person responsible
for monitoring and evaluation (RME) will prepare project monitoring tables and ensure an appropriate
dissemination of information. The information will also be provided to the OMC and to the donors with
periodic reports.
Monitoring is organized around two activities: management or implementation monitoring and performance
monitoring. Management monitoring deals with progress in project implementation. The elements to be
analyzed are activities, inputs to be provided, and expected results as well as responsible entities. Contracts
and arrangements with the different operators are also monitored. The key element is a comparison between
planned and actual achievements with an explanation of deviations to highlight problems due to logistic and
project management procedures or legal and regulatory constraints.
Performance monitoring is based on key output and outcome indicators. These indicators are displayed in a
table specifying the frequency of data collection for these indicators as well as the method of choice to be
used. The monitoring of performance indicators will be established when the project becomes effective and
will be periodically updated. Data will be collected by project staff and by extemal consultants recruited to
assist the project.
Since the project will work with a large irrigation investment fund, the monitoring of disbursement and
environment activities will require a special attention. The RME will have responsibility for these functions
in collaboration with the head of the Environment and Social Protection Division, for environmental
questions, and with the head of the Financial Department for grants provided for the financing of operating
cost and equipment. The Operation Manual will provide a detailed framework for the monitoring, which
will be completed by the RME at project effectiveness.
Evaluation
The purpose of evaluation is to determine systematically and objectively, the pertinence, effectiveness,
output and impact of project activities. It is important that it be remote from project activities while using
their results. The project will undergo two types of evaluation: extemal and intemal.
The RME will be responsible for assembling a database to be used to carry out evaluations. A table will
specify key information to be collected, the collection methodology, the collectors, as well as the collection
- 64 -



frequency. The baseline study conducted at the start of the project is an essential element of the monitoring
framework, used as a reference by subsequent evaluations in measuring progress. The baseline study must
be conducted during the first 6 months of the project.
Since the project will finance a large number of small projects (sub-project) it will be important to collect
basic data on each sub-project financed under the project and to evaluate the output and outcome of a
representative sample of sub-projects. Support to professional organization and other beneficiaries
associations will often include training components. The RME will make sure that a simple framework to
monitor and evaluate training provided under the project is in place. The mid-term review will pay special
attention to the impact of the training. The RME is responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of
training activities in collaboration with the head of the financing department, responsible for managing the
fund. A table in the Operational Manual will summarize the monitoring indicators by component and
specify for each indicator the collection methodology and frequency as well as the agent responsible for
collecting and analyzing the data.
Internal evaluation: As self-evaluation conducted by the Agency, the purpose of the intemal evaluation is
to periodically measure the effectiveness of activities in order to inform the association and the OMC and
help their monitoring and evaluation of the project. Internal evaluations are conducted annually by the
MES. Analysis and evaluation of results achieved during a given year will be used to prepare a work plan
for the following year.
External evaluation: This kind of evaluation requires an objective measure of the global efficiency of the
project, its social, economic, environmental impact, and to assess whether it meets its initial objectives. The
OMC will requests and external evaluation every two year or as needed and will establish its terms of
reference. An independent consulting firm will conduct the evaluation. It could focus on assessing the
impact of project activities on the beneficiary or on conducting an operational audit of the project. It will be
based on data provided by the monitoring and evaluation system, as well as additional surveys of
beneficiaries and key participants to the project implementation. It will draw the lessons from the evidence
collected in the process and will formulate recommendations to improve the efficiency of project execution,
indicating clearly the adjustments to be made to the Operation Manual and providing directives to guide the
content and the implementation of the second phase of the project. In addition, a mid-term review and a
project completion evaluation will be carried out jointly by government and IDA. Both reviews will be
based in part on results and recommendations from the above evaluations, enabling the mid-term review to
make adjustment needed to improve project implementation. The executing agency has the responsibility of
organizing supervision and evaluation missions in the fields. It is important that the agency ensure a wide
dissemination of information collected in the context of project monitoring and evaluation.
Type of reports and their contents
The Agency will prepared two types of reports. Quarterly reports will contain the following:
*   Consolidation of information using the performance indicators indicated above;
*   Status report on global progress;
*   Status report of activities executed directly by the Agency, its departments and its service providers;
*   Results of studies, if any, and lessons leamed;
*   Status report of procurements of goods and services;
*   Status report on approved financing under the Irrigation Investment Fund.
Semi-annual reports will contain the following:
- 65 -



*   Annual consolidation of quarterly data with in-depth analysis;
*   Global evaluation of results and deviations with respect to objectives with special attention given to the
private irrigation financing component;
*   Broad guidelines for future activities;
*   Work program for the following years;
*   Budget for the following year's activities.
- 66 -



Additional
Annex 12
Executive summary of the environmental assessment
Research Context and Methodology
The Private Irrigation Pilot Project (PIPP) was launched in Niger in 1996 and ended in December 2001. It
forms the basis of a Private Irrigation Project (PIP2), currently under development. To a large extent, the
components of PIP2 will have the same content as the pilot project components, and will include activities
aimed at (i) reinforcing the capacities of institutions working on private irrigation development; (ii)
developing and promoting low-cost manual irrigation technologies for plots under 0.5 ha; (iii) developing
and promoting mechanized irrigation for plots over 0.5 ha; (iv) micro-finance for private irrigation
development; and (v) managing and protecting the environment.
The PIPP mid-term evaluation showed that, after three years of implementation, the project had made some
significant contributions and had laid the groundwork for sustainable private irrigation development in
certain specific areas of Niger. PIP2 will eventually seek to extend this action to other areas with irrigation
potential, thus justifying environmental assessments in those areas. This document reports on the
assessment of PIP2's potential environmental impacts. Because PIP2 is a category B project, the report
does not constitute a formal environmental impact assessment.
The goals of the environmental assessment were to identify the environmental repercussions of PIPP
activities, identify the potential environmental impacts of the proposed PIP2 diversification activities, and
draw up a plan of action to minimize the environmental risks.The survey zone included the geographical
areas covered by PIPP and the probable expansion areas for PIP2, comprising the Niger River valley, the
Dosso and Maouri dallols, the Maradi and Kaba goulbis, the Zinder koramas, the Komadougou valley, the
Main6 Soroa and Adder Doutchi Majia oasis basins, the lower Tarka valley and the shallow Air valleys.
The analytical impact assessment procedure included (i) identification of impact source activities and the
environmental components likely to be affected by them; (ii) determination of the environmental value and
level of disturbance of the physical, biological and human elements likely to be affected; (iii) an assessment
of the level of disturbance suffered by each component and identification of the duration and extent of the
effects generated by each activity; (iv) an estimate of impact significance and preparation of a summary
impact assessment grid.
Environmental Context in Niger and Environmental Characterization
The environmental context in Niger is particularly problematical for the development of irrigation. Some of
the country's natural resources are in an advanced state of degradation. As the isohyets have moved
southwards, the resulting decline in the area of grassland and farmland has considerably reduced the
chances of maintaining the delicate balance between population levels and the remaining economically
accessible natural resources. Human pressure will cause the resources to deteriorate, leading inexorably to
greater poverty.
Several years ago the government, aware of the challenge of sustainable natural resource management in
Niger, institutionalized environmental and natural resource management. However, the order allowing for
ratification of the role of certain institutions was not adopted until 1997. One of the institutions covered by
the order was the Bureau for Environmental Impact Assessments and Impact Studies, which is responsible
- 67 -



for administrative management of the country's environmental assessment procedures and impact studies.
In addition to confirming concerns relating to the national enviromnental context, characterization of the
study zones revealed a concentration of agriculture in increasingly limited areas of the country. As rainfall
levels declined, areas such as Lossa (west of Niamey) saw their average rainfall drop by more than 150 mm
between 1941-1970 and 1971-1990. The Sudanese zone, which is the wettest and most conducive to
farming and animal husbandry, now accounts for only 3% of the country. The Sahelian zone, the southern
portion of which is conducive to rain-fed farming and the northern portion of which is mainly grassland,
now covers only 37% of Niger's total area. In the most northerly zone, i.e. the Sahelian zone, the climate
limits human activity to oasis-irrigated farming and regular farming in certain wet valleys and depressions.
Despite this context, Niger has considerable hydraulic potential. Barely 1% of its surface and meteoric
waters from the Niger River and its seasonal tributaries, shallow streambeds (dallols), other seasonal
streams, natural ponds and wetlands are currently used. Groundwater flows from annual runoffs are
comparatively less abundant than surface flows. Less than 20% of all groundwater reserves are managed
for village, town or grassland use or for irrigated agriculture.
Despite the relative lack of identified plant species in Niger, nearly 22% of all species are harvested by the
human population for use as animal fodder, food, medicinal plants, building materials and craft inputs. The
country's strong demographic growth is placing additional pressure on plant resources, in particular energy
wood. Some habitats hosting specific plant communities are now threatened, at both the regional and
national levels. Niger, which has one of the largest wildlife populations in West Africa in terms of both its
diversity and its wealth, is a favoured stop-off point for many migratory birds whose flight trajectories are
located above certain wetlands (valleys, Chad Lake and natural ponds). All this wildlife is threatened.
Current populations are only 10% of their 1960s level.
The importance of wetlands in Niger, in terms of their contribution to the maintenance of biodiversity, is
undeniable. A thousand or so ponds have been identified. Despite declining rainfall levels, approximately
20% of these are still permanent. Not only has the climate reduced their numbers, but their use for farming
and grassland purposes has also had an impact on their sustainability. The dallol and basin environment is
characterized by permanent transfers of water between surface stocks and alluvial tables. They form
wetlands that permit the development of vegetation with a permanent ligneous component. The ponds of
the koris, dallols, goulbis and basins all appear to be connected to an underlying alluvial table.
Farming in Niger therefore takes place in a particularly complex environmental context, and certain factors
have significant impacts. The report lists some of the features of farming in Niger:
*   Farming in Niger is concentrated in a 200-km fringe in the southern portion of the country.
*   Nearly 98% of the country's cultivable land is located in the departments of Dosso, Maradi, Tahoua,
Tillabery and Zinder.
*   Some 60% of all land lies fallow, and there has been a worrying decline in its potential due to
demographic pressures and the extensive nature of farm production.
*   Rain-fed cropping methods are used on 99% of all cultivated cropland.
*   Insufficient water supplies for certain critical plant growth phases, along with parasite attacks and lack
of production inputs, are the principal elements standing in the way of higher productivity.
*   Of the 18 million hectares of cultivable land in Niger, only 270,000 have irrigation potential.
*   The sale of counterfeit pesticides and prohibited products is common practice in the smaller markets of
southern Niger.
*   The area cultivated using partial water control (comparable to small private irrigation) was around
- 68 -



40,000 ha in the 1987-1988 season.
The small private operators use ineffective, old-fashioned irrigation techniques. Water resources are
obtained mainly from thousands of traditional and modem wells, cement wells, ponds and several thousand
boreholes. Within each plot, water is directed to small border strips via rustic, mainly unlined earth
channels. Distribution efficiency and application efficiency are both poor. These small irrigation systems
are brought into operation mainly in the dry season.
Principal Potential Environmental Repercussions of PIP2
Soil degradation, including salinization, alkalinization, structural deterioration and leaching of nutrient
elements, is by far the most serious problem usually associated with irrigation. Despite this, the studies
carried out by INRAN on soils in the PIPP zone revealed no environmental impact that would justify a
change in the project's content or strategy. On the contrary, the positive impacts of dune stabilization,
close protection of plots and several examples of gully control confinmed the pertinence of many activities
in the project's environmental protection component. Similarly, the techniques proposed for PIP2 had, in
many plots, helped avoid the harmful effects of traditional water wells, including loss of cultivable land,
sanding up of sites, the creation of ponds conducive to the spread of malaria and the use of wood to
stabilize well walls. No major changes have been announced in the content of PIP2, and therefore no
negative repercussions on soils are anticipated as a result of the proposed irrigation technologies.
The danger of overusing alluvial tables and declines in the phreatic level are undeniably the most worrying
environmental aspects of PIP2. In areas where small irrigators are likely to become concentrated in smaller
spaces, or close to ponds, the water resource potential from the ponds or alluvial tables in particular raises
a number of concems related to physical and biological resource sustainability.
With regard to the impacts on the human community, the report highlights some major deficiencies in the
marketing and use of agrochemicals in Niger. A number of factors have combined to create a context
conducive to negative impacts, including the sale of prohibited and counterfeit products, inappropriate
mixture strengths, lack of training for farmers and so on.
Sources of PIP2 impacts are addressed separately in the report, and their significance is assessed. The
sources in question are:
*   Pumping from surface water;
* Pumping from alluvial groundwater;
*   Reclamation of new plots;
*   Irrigation as such;
*   Drainage;
*   Construction of manual pumps;
*   Agrochemical use;
*   Dune stabilization;
*   Close protection;
*   Treatment of gullies.
In spite of the above concems, the assessment of PIP2's impacts on the physical, biological and human
components suggests that the positive aspects will clearly be greater than the negative aspects.
Only the use of agrochemicals appears to generate a major negative impact, the principal issue being the
- 69 -



health of farming families. Pumping of pond water, reclamation of new plots (deforestation and destruction
of the plant cover), drainage of water into the ponds, agrochemical use and the construction of manual
pumps would all be sources of moderately significant negative impacts. Several components of the
physical, biological and human environments would be affected by these activities. The ponds are the
elements most likely to be affected by sustained dissemination of pumping technologies, because a
concentration of farmers around ponds, from which water can easily be obtained using manual pumps,
would certainly have an impact on pond sustainability. Of all the activities listed above, agrochemical use
and the reclamation of new plots would generate the most potentially negative repercussions.
Mitigation of Impacts and Operational Proposals
Two of the principal recommendations made in the environmental assessment are the incorporation of
activities aimed at encouraging proper pesticide use by the farmers affected by PIP2, and the development
of a pond protection reflex among farmers and development officers through the promotion and
implementation of measures designed to discourage direct and indirect use of ponds.
Given that fluctuations in the piezometric level have been and continue to be the only information obtained
from piezometric monitoring activities, and that no significant contribution has been made to the mitigation
of PIPP's environmental repercussions, continuation of this activity in the PIP2 environmental protection
component is not recommended.
In addition, none of the current studies has produced a solid argument that would justify changes to the
project's geographical coverage. As a result, only the development of an environmental characterization
form-guide is proposed, to ensure that sites unsuitable for irrigation development are avoided, and that
methodical monitoring is carried out.
The mitigation measures for the project's environmental impacts are as follows:
*   Preparation and systematic application, for each site, of an environmental characterization form-guide;
*   Preparation and incorporation of environmental clauses in all legal documents and contracts relating to
PIP2;
*   Implementation of a "matching grant" system for land development, environmental protection and safe
pesticide use;
*   Inclusion in PIP2 of a number of training spaces, elements and content aimed at improving
environmental perception and consideration;
*   Identification of technical altematives to the use of alluvial aquifers in small private irrigation projects.
Five components are proposed for consideration by ANPIP, private irrigation operators and local
environmental protection services:
1.     Support for the proper use of agrochemicals.
2.     Environmental characterization of specific sites.
3.     Close protection of farms.
4.     Environmental monitoring.
5.     Environmental clauses.
It is recommended that responsibility for managing all PIP2 environmental components should be handed
over to an independent structure such as ANPIP, and that subcontracting agreements with local services
should be given priority over contracts with ministerial offices at Niamey. Finally, it is recommended that a
- 70 -



civil servant delegated by the Department of the Environment should join the ANPIP technical team
responsible for the environmental components, to facilitate the achievement of environmental protection
goals.
- 71 -



Additional
Annex 13
Letter of Sector Policy
Unofficial Translation
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FRATERNITY- LABOR - PROGRESS
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
January 15, 2002
From the Minister
To:
Mr. James WOLFENSOHN
President of the World Bank
1818, H. Street, N.W
Washington, D.C. 20433 USA
Subject: Irrigation Sector Policy Letter
Sir,
Please find herewith Niger's Irrigation Sector Policy Letter outlining the major orientations that our
government intends to adopt to ensure the sustainable development of this sub-sector.
May I take this opportunity, as the New Year begins, to extend my best wishes to you and your family as
well as to all of your collaborators.
I also wish to reaffirm the will of my government to implement these reforms.
Yours respectfully
WASSALKE BOUKARY
- 72 -



IRRIGATION SECTOR POLICY LETTER
Since the accession of Niger to independence, rural development has always been a priority in the economic
and social development of the country. As a result of the drop in revenue from uranium exports, the rural
sector is now the main engine of economic growth.
In fact, in spite of the fragile agro-ecological base, the agricultural sector accounted for 36 % of the
constant GDP in 2000. It accounts for about 85% of employment and 41% of total export revenues. It is
evidently the key GDP growth factor as attested to in the national accounts during the years of bumper
harvests (10.4%) in 1998)
However the population of Niger suffers from poverty and the most extreme food insecurity, mainly
because of the fragility of the agro pastoral production system which is subject to climatic instability.
Inextricably linked, poverty and food insecurity have always been the major focus of development policies
in Niger, especially the agricultural policy confirmed in Ordinance no 92-30 of July 8, 1992 relating to
"Guidelines for a rural development policy for Niger" and Ordinance no 99-53 relating to the Strategy for
sustainable agricultural growth.
Among the priorities or strategic poles outlined, intensifying and diversifying production by improving
production systems while preserving ecological balance, were targeted, thus according importance to
irrigated production systems.
In its general policy statement, the Government of the Fifth Republic focused on the agricultural sector as a
growth engine of economic development, with a special attention to the development of irrigated crops to
make it a real production campaign. The special 2001 program announced by his Excellency, President of
the Republic, based on the collection and channeling of run-off water is consistent with this declaration.
The Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) being adopted combines these policies and incorporates the
management of irrigation water as a priority. As an outcome of the PRS, a Rural Development Strategy is
being developed with the support of the World Bank.
As a component of the agricultural sector, irrigation in Niger includes:
i) Hydro-agricultural installations with full control irrigation (AHA) supported entirely by the national
budget between 1965 and 1992;
ii) out-of-season crops increased since the 1984 drought including private irrigation regularly funded since
1996;
iii) collection of run-off water which has been developing since 1980.
Irrigable land potential is estimated globally at 270,000 ha. The total irrigated area in Niger is about
85,000 ha (an exploitation rate of 32.5%) which breaks down as follows:
i) 13,350 ha with full control irrigation, used for annual double cropping;
ii) 60,000 ha of out-of-season crops, half the area of which is exploited by private irrigants for an average
of two crops a year;
iii) 12,000 ha of basin check irrigation, in addition to 300,00 ha where various techniques are used for
collecting    run-off water for improving rain-fed cultivation.
- 73 -



The major irrigated crops in the areas equipped for full control irrigation are rice, cotton and wheat. Other
crops using other forms of irrigation are mainly: onions, sugar cane, green pepper, tomatoes, cabbage,
garlic, potatoes and fruit crops (citrus fruit, mangoes). Niger exports onions, green peppers to the countries
in the Gulf of Guinea.
At the technical level, the situation is characterized by the presence of cost-effective techniques that are
adapted to the different means of channeling and distributing water. The pilot project for promoting private
irrigation in particular has encouraged producers to adopt a large range of low cost irrigation techniques.
Moreover two-crop cultivation is a common feature of all the irrigated areas in Niger. However certain
weaknesses have been detected with relation to technical support and reduced ability of the private sector
and peasant organizations to undertake certain activities that could be privatized in the short term. Despite
well adapted technical packages and widespread use of agriculture technology promoted by the extension
services, strong return on investment has been hampered by problems in the areas of genetic resources,
fertilization, phytosanitary requirements (rice) and seeds (onions).
The legal context of land ownership is largely inadequate for the future, and the outstanding problem of the
status of land under cultivation, before the adoption of the Ordinance relating to the orientation guidelines
of the rural code, is now the object of a Bill.
The water code is regulated by Ordinances 93-94 of March 2, 1993, modified by law no. 98-040 of
December 17, 1998.
The institutional situation is characterized by greater responsibility and professionalism among the peasant
organizations created through Ordinance no 96-067 of November 9, 1996, which brought rural
cooperatives into being, and law no. 2000-15 of August 21, 2000 which created the regional chambers of
agriculture.
The agricultural policy focuses attention primarily on the most vulnerable groups, notably women and the
youth. Initiatives have been directed towards these groups such as the implementation of mechanisms to
alleviate domestic tasks (mills and shredders), irrigation systems that women can handle easily and
conditions that provide greater access to women and young persons to funding, education and training.
With respect to its economy, Niger is in step with on-going regional and international processes that favor
integration and globalization. This context gives rise to situations requiring greater competitiveness on the
part of the national agricultural sector.
Significant institutional and regulatory improvements are underway towards the creation of an environment
that favors the emergence of a decentralized banking system, removal of tax from agricultural material and
the development of a system of market information.
With regard to the environment, the govemment has realized quite quickly the fragility of the ecosystem
and has implemented strong measures. As a result, the country today has available:
i) A vast experience in the areas of approaches to and techniques of protection and restoration of the
environment;
ii) A legislative and regulatory framework for environmental management of which impact assessments are
an integral part;
- 74 -



Niger has recently outlined a National Strategy for the Development of Irrigation and run-off collection that
has been validated by a workshop attended by local actors and partners in development and submitted to
the government for examination and adoption.
With regard to objectives for the development of irrigation, the strategy has the following objectives:
i) improvement of the productivity of the installations and return on investment;
ii) development of irrigation and growth in revenue for the operators;
iii) sustainable improvement of food security for the population;
iv) preservation of productive capital and natural resources.
The strategic options for implementation are as follows:
i) widespread use of channeling and flow controlling water works;
ii) increased value of agricultural investments;
iii) rehabilitation of existing hydro-agricultural installations;
iv) implementation of an incentive framework to attract investment and to promote private, small scale
irrigation;
v) more widespread measures for soil protection and restoration with integrated management of soil
fertility.
Implementation of these options is geared towards re-orienting State action towards its higher functions
-promotion of the private sector, making producers' organizations more professional and responsible and
adoption of technical standards for development that will lead to efficient systems.
Priority activities identified are as follows:
i) Development and rehabilitation of water management installations;
ii) Adaptation of an institutional, legal and regulatory framework to the new strategic orientations;
iii) Strengthening of bilateral and multilateral cooperation for defining and enforcing sound and suitable
standards for use in cross-border basins;
iv) Adoption of technical standards that will ensure that installations are technically reliable and
economically viable;
v) Scaling up the use of small but efficient units of post-harvest technologies at the national level;
vi) Encouragement of crop diversification through agricultural research and improvement of the economic
environment;
vii) Identification of simple environmental norms and indicators; and
viii) Pursuit of activities geared towards water and soil conservation as well as soil protection and
restoration by improving all watersheds and, at the community level, all irrigation sites threatened by silting
or by water erosion.
Implementation of strategic options by the State in the area of irrigation will significantly increase the
irrigated crops to be put on the market.
However, there are continued funding constraints for marketing, chief among which are:
i) Insufficient level of own financial resources within producer organizations and private enterprises at the
primary distribution level;
ii) The limited nature of existing financial resources (limited funding from the DFC (Decentralized
Financial Services)) and difficulty in accessing funding through commercial banks.
- 75 -



Moreover, funding for basic marketing of irrigated crops, which is a major concern for both government
and irrigators alike, does not fall under the Agricultural Export Promotion Project (PPEAP), the Rural
Financial Services Development Program (PDSFR), and the matching grant planned under the Private
Irrigation Promotion Project Phase II (PIP2).
Therefore, for all the reasons cited above it is vital that adequate financial arrangements be put in place
towards supporting the marketing of products to ensure the sustainability of irrigated production systems.
WASSALKE BOUKARY
Minister for Agricultural Development
- 76 -



LIBYA
NIGER                                                                                  ,2'---. ,, *
PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION                                                               I,           ,                            'x      ,.                  N,
PROMOTION DE L'IRRIGATION PRIVEE                                                             .-
~~~~~~~~Q, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      N
N,~~~~~~~~ N 
ZONES OF PROJECT INTERVENTION
.,.' ZONES D'INTERVENTION                                          'i
PAVED ROADS
ROUTES PERMANENTES                                              X                                     j
EARTH ROADS                                                  ,                                 I
ROUTES EN TERRE/
RIVERS 
FLEUVES
DISTRICT CAPITALS                                     7                                                             BILA M
S20'              CHEF-LIEU D'ARRONDISSEMENT                          /                                                               BI                                                        2u
DEPARTMAENT CAPITALS                               .-A R L I TI
CHEF-LIEU DE DEPARTEMENT                         /             .        A      T
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                               ' /                     A  G  A1D
vv CAPITALE NATiONALE  j                       r                           'A                G  AIjD   E Zj
----DISTRICT BOUNDARIES    /C                 .      '
__ MITE D'ARRONDISSEMENT  N _-                 5 !
_ _DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES  '                        \i,    ,;_      t, 
LIMITE DE DEPARTEMENT                                                                                                                        i
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                         r        A I _
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES    j                                  I ,       -                                                                            CHAD
ZONES OF PROJECT INTERVENTION
ZONES D'INTERVENTION              I                               A -'                      -                             -
1. Oasis et vocllies de Air             E           I-    .                          _
2. ValeSe du fleuve Niger        |      N \
3. Valles des dollois
4. Ader-Doutchi-Maggia            -                    Ic, rf        L f.I N E                     i
k     5 Bosse : valle doe Tarka     .-'                                  t \ighcarne                      1,/ 
76                                    TCHING a'                - -   J                                       .                                        0   50  100  15  200
6. Goac bs                                                         '~g1
8.f wCameRon easiennes da Mal Soroa IJ.  {TABARADENE        ..   0   !                                                                        /             KILOMETERS
1' <,  9. Valle& de Jo Komadougou      )- . :-
M A L I        ,                                                                                               DIFFA           ,/            Thi,opwoprad-redbythe
.,                                                                                                                                              Mop )%~ip U.,- fTnTub=  TharoTensT h.#'  I  /  M  The World Bank.
'N         '                       '             UA      ,                                 I --,e                                                          The hajDodareN,G colors,Ideoam,ralegalrn
-t                                    ,\ .L ') tW , s@f jl- . i % _n va _ } _ 4 XTanouf J G'."'o                 U I  M      *'                hi  ando ilrmame,oohoccpocrcef1
_,,                                                                                                  SA  '\y'<L8\ =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-w,~  h .
B u R K*N A \  r"'                          I        G  U  I G  Ii mp d                     t mplya -  thE por
e   1,g X                                  :      ,,                       -     ,        t      |   I 1-          /' A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T. d Bk ,up y .9mn
C          TAI{OUA                                                                                                            kte~.~..d- t .Y
FZAS  OS   9   g<-  -N   I  N   E  R                               nI  t ,-galsta r a e o -ryterritory, or
I'S,-' it      4I1jns, ,10M         *'      '      J             P1 ANUTRY20
i31     A~~~~~
.2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  I   2   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-f"'<                                   7,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIBY
N                                                                                                                                    '"                   g    NIGER 
DOISO                                                                                                                         f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AO1
BURKJ-NA  tOCOtac2(  -,-----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------                                       \. I.,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'3L.~~~~~~ 'iiCHD 
>                 /   NIGERIA ~
FASO                                4NG                                                 RA-"'"" aKRC2WtRI
JANUARY 2ETS



