Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3621 NIR
Project Agreement
(Private Irrigation Promotion Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ASSOCIATION NIGÉRIENNE POUR LA PROMOTION DE L’IRRIGATION PRIVÉE 
(ANPIP)
Dated May 9, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3621 NIR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ASSOCIATION NIGÉRIENNE POUR LA 
PROMOTION DE L’IRRIGATION PRIVÉE (ANPIP).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Page  2
Republic of Niger (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the  Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-one million  three 
hundred  thousand  Special  Drawing Rights (SDR 31,300,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ANPIP agrees to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Subsidiary Finance Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
ANPIP, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be 
made available to ANPIP on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS ANPIP, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II              
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ANPIP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, 
environmental, agricultural, financial and commercial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association, the Borrower, and ANPIP shall otherwise agree, ANPIP shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ANPIP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
Page  3
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, ANPIP’s PIU shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Association and ANPIP, a plan to ensure the continued 
achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
ANPIP on said plan.
Section 2.04. ANPIP shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ANPIP shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
Subsidiary Finance Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. ANPIP (PIU) shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to Category (4) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement 
available to Beneficiaries under Subproject Agreements to be entered into, respectively, between 
ANPIP and each Beneficiary pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in  Section II of  
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) ANPIP shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Finance Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b)
ANPIP shall promptly inform the Borrower and Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ANPIP of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the Subsidiary Finance Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ANPIP
Section 3.01. ANPIP shall carry on its operations for the Project and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound technical, environmental, agricultural, financial and commercial 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ANPIP shall at all times operate and maintain its offices, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
Page  4
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial technical and 
environmental practices.
Section 3.03. ANPIP shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as 
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  ANPIP shall maintain a separate financial management system for the 
Project, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
ANPIP shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02 (a)  Without limitation upon ANPIP’s progress reporting obligations set out 
in Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, ANPIP shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and 
thereafter not later than 45 days after each calendar quarter a Financial Monitoring Report for 
such period, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association which:
(i)
sets forth actual and projected sources and uses of funds for the Project, 
both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the  projected and 
actual sources and uses of such 
funds;
Page  5
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the  previously forecast and actual implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenant
Section 5.01. ANPIP,  by a date not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, 
shall appoint to the staff of its PIU in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement: (a) an environmental protection specialist, (b) a communication/outreach 
specialist, (c) a monitoring and evaluation specialist, and (d) an agricultural services specialist.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of ANPIP 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
notify ANPIP of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
Page  6
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to 
be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. 
Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For ANPIP:
B.P. 507
Niamey
Republic of Niger
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
(227) 73 62 93
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ANPIP or by ANPIP on behalf of 
the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement may be taken or executed by the 
President of ANPIP’s PIU or such other person or persons as ANPIP shall designate in writing, 
and ANPIP shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/                                                                          Antoinette M. Sayeh
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
ASSOCIATION NIGÉRIENNE POUR LA PROMOTION 
DE L’IRRIGATION PRIVÉE 
By /s/                                                                                      Joseph Diatta
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Page  8
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $260,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$300,000 equivalent and goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National or International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated 
amount of $200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national or 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement for Subprojects
Goods, works (with the exception of small works procured in accordance with paragraph 
5
Section I of this Schedule 1), and services required for Part C of the Project shall be procured 
pursuant to procedures set forth in the PIM.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works under Part C1 of the Project estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor 
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully.
Page  9
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, (iii) small works, and (iv) the first three contracts for works and goods to be procured for 
subprojects, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to the first three contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $20,000, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
Page  10
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Commercial Practices
Services to assist Beneficiaries in carrying out Subprojects under Part C of the Project 
may be procured in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Association.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for small studies, short assignments, project implementation and other tasks that 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
Page  11
been given.
Post Review
3.
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Section I
.
General
1.
Project Implementation
ANPIP shall carry out the Project and shall: (i) apply the criteria, policies, procedures 
and arrangements set out in the Project Implementation Manual and the Environmental 
Management Plan; and (ii) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the PIM or 
any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
ANPIP
(a)
ANPIP shall maintain, until the Closing Date, PIU.  PIU shall be headed by a 
Director General who will be assisted by competent staff all with terms of reference, 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association and which shall comprise, 
inter alia, 
the staff outlined in Section 5.01 of this Agreement and Section 7.01 (c) of the Development 
Credit Agreement. PIU
 
shall be responsible for: (i)  supervision of Project activities; (ii) 
management of Project funds; (iii) administrative and financial management of the Project; (iv) 
coordination and approval of training programs proposed by PSE’s and Producer Associations; 
(v) receiving and appraising requests for Subproject Grants and making recommendations for the 
approval of Subprojects above the threshold value of FCFA 10 million to CSO; and (vi) carrying 
out and supervising approved Subproject Grant Agreements.
(b)
PIU shall: (i) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, and (ii)  prepare, assist in the meetings and reviews and carry out the reports 
referred to in section II of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
Section II
.
1.
Subprojects
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.05 of this Agreement, no Subproject 
shall be eligible for financing under a Grant out of the proceeds of the Credit unless CSO and/or 
ANPIP shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the 
guidelines set forth in PIM, that the Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below 
and in more detail in the PIM, which shall include the following:
(a)
the Subproject shall be for any of the types of activities referred to in Part C of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and shall not be for 
any of the activities mentioned in a negative list in PIM;
Page  13
(b)
the Subproject shall be initiated and implemented by Producer Associations or 
Input Suppliers within the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
each Subproject shall not exceed the aggregate amount of $75,000, except as 
previously agreed with the Association;
(d)
the Subproject shall be in accordance with the economic, financial, and 
procurement environmental procedures set forth in PIM; and comply with the environmental 
procedures set forth in EMP; and
(e)
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to its irrigation strategy.
2.
Terms and Conditions of Subproject Agreements
A
subproject financed by a Grant shall be carried out pursuant to a Subproject 
Agreement, to be concluded between ANPIP and the Beneficiary, following the approval of the 
subproject by ANPIP’s PIU and/or CSO, in accordance with the provisions set forth in this 
Schedule 2 and in more detail in PIM, providing for, 
inter alia
, the following: 
(a)
the financing of the proposed Subproject is fully covered by the sum of the Grant 
and the Beneficiary's contribution; 
(b)
the obligation to contribute out of the Beneficiary's resources 10% maximum in 
cash of the projected Subproject investment costs; 
(c)
the obligation to carry out and maintain after completion the Subproject in 
accordance with PIM, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
technical, environmental, agricultural, financial and commercial practices and to maintain 
adequate records in such form and detail as the Association or the Borrower may reasonably 
request; 
(d)
the obligation that: (i) goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit for a Subproject shall be procured according to the provisions of Section I of Schedule I to 
this Agreement; (ii) contracts for consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit for a Subproject shall be procured according to the provisions of Section II of Schedule I 
to this Agreement; and (iii) that such goods, works and consultants' services shall be used 
exclusively for the carrying out of the Subproject; 
(e)
the right to inspect, by ANPIP, the Borrower or the Association, or jointly with 
qualified representatives of ANPIP, the Association, or the Borrower, if the Association, or the 
Borrower, shall so request, the works, plans, studies and construction sites relevant to the 
Subproject, and any relevant documents; 
(f)
the right to appropriate remedies, acceptable to the Association, should the 
carrying out or the maintenance of the Subproject, as the case may be, not conform to the 
provisions set forth in PIM and the Subproject Agreement and thereby unfavorably influence the 
economic return of the Subproject; and
Page  14
(g)
the right to obtain all such information as ANPIP, the Borrower or the 
Association shall reasonably request, relating to the administration and financial condition of the 
Subproject.
3.
ANPIP shall exercise its rights under the Subproject Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ANPIP shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof.
