Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3621 NIR
Development Credit Agreement
(Private Irrigation Promotion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 9, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3621 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Page  2
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated February 8, 2002 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to enhance the carrying out of 
its irrigation development strategy (the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to 
the execution of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of France a grant 
equivalent to one million U.S. dollars (US$1,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Government of France (the French Grant); 
(D)
the Project will be carried out by 
Association Nigérienne de Promotion de 
l’Irrigation Privée
 (hereinafter referred to as ANPIP) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part 
of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the Credit available to ANPIP, as set 
forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and 
in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and ANPIP (the Project 
Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“ANPIP” and “
Association Nigérienne pour la Promotion de l’Irrigation 
Privée”
 mean the Niger Agency for Private Irrigation Promotion created pursuant to Arrêté 
121/MI/DAPJ of July 12, 1993;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means the recipient of a Grant for the purposes of financing a 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to a Subproject Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“CSO” means 
Comité de Suivi et d’Orientation,
 the Borrower’s Project Steering  
Committee,  established  pursuant to Arrêté No.: 007/MDR/DEP, dated February 9, 2000;
(d)
“EMP” means Environmental Management Plan referred to in Section 7.01 (b) 
(iii) of this Agreement;
Page  3
(e)
“FCFA” means 
Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine
, the currency of 
the Borrower;
(f)
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(g)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing January 1 and 
ending December 31 in the same calendar year;
(h)
“Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by the Borrower to a 
Beneficiary through ANPIP for the implementation of a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) 
pursuant to the conditions set forth in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement;
(i)
“Input Suppliers” includes suppliers of, 
inter alia
, irrigation equipment, 
irrigation equipment spare parts, equipment for the repair and maintenance of irrigation 
equipment, and producers of irrigation inputs;
(j)
“MCPEC” means 
Mouvement des caisses populaires d’épargne et de crédit
, the 
Borrower’s organization of savings and credit institutions, established pursuant to Arrêté 
00026/MFRE/P/DGE/RDMCE/CSSFD dated June 14, 1999;
(k)
“MDA” means 
Ministère du Developpement Agricole
, the Borrower’s Ministry 
responsible for Agricultural Development;
(l)
“MFI” means Micro-Finance Institutions located within selected regions of the 
Borrower’s territory established and operating under the Laws of the Borrower;
(m)
 “MoEF means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for Economy and Finance;
(n)
“ONAHA” means 
Office national des aménagements hydroagricoles
, the  
Borrower’s national office for irrigated perimeters established pursuant to Ordonnance 78-39 of 
December 26, 1978  and completed by Décret 78-154PCMS/MDR of  December 28, 1978;
(o)
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the Project Implementation 
Manual (
Manuel de Procédure du Projet
) referred to in Section 7.01 (c) of this Agreement 
setting forth, 
inter alia, 
the administrative, financial and accounting procedures, the procurement 
and disbursement procedures, other arrangements governing the implementation of the Project 
and the terms, conditions, and procedures  pertaining to Subprojects, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term shall include any schedules, tables and annexes to the 
PIM;
(p)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit within ANPIP which shall be 
responsible for the implementation of the Project, established and operating pursuant to Arrêté 
121/MI/DAPJ of July 12, 1993;
(q)
“Producer Association” means an association of irrigation farmers  and related 
activities, established and operating under the laws of the Borrower; 
(r)
“Project Account” means the account to be opened pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) 
Page  4
of this Agreement;
(s)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and ANPIP 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(t)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project preparation advance granted 
by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the Letter Agreement signed on behalf of the  
Association on February 5, 2002 and on behalf of the Borrower on February 6, 2002;
(u)
“PSE” means a Public Service Entity involved in the implementation of the 
Borrower’s irrigation development strategy, including: CSO, MDA, 
Institut national de 
recherches agronomiques du Niger, 
the Borrower’s National Institute for Agricultural Research, 
ONAHA and decentralized government agencies, all as established and operating under the laws 
of the Borrower;
(v)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement;
(w)
“Subproject” means specific activities carried out by a Beneficiary and financed 
or proposed to be financed through a Grant under Part C of the Project;
(x)
“Subproject Agreement” means an agreement between ANPIP and a Beneficiary;
(y)
“Subsidiary Finance Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ANPIP pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Finance Agreement; 
(z)
“Three ONAHA Perimeters” means the irrigation perimeters in the localities of 
Djirataoua, Konni and Galmi currently under the management of ONAHA and referred to in Part 
B 3. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(aa)
“90-Day Advance Account” means any of the advance accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to  thirty-one million  three  hundred  thousand  Special  Drawing  Rights (SDR 31,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if 
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (other than Part C of 
the Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid, (or if the 
Page  5
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by ANPIP on account of withdrawals made for 
the benefit of a Beneficiary under a Grant to meet the reasonable costs of goods, works or 
services required for a Subproject to be financed under Part C of the Project, and in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the credit Account is requested.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in FCFA: (i) a 
special deposit account in the name of ANPIP; and (ii) 90-Day Advance Accounts in up to five 
regions (as the Borrower and the Association shall agree upon), all in commercial banks on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account and each 
respective 90-Day Advance Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of  
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the 
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled
.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
Page  6
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1 and 
December 1 commencing June 1, 2012 and ending December 1, 2041.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on December 1, 2021, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of  the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)  the Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause ANPIP to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of ANPIP 
Page  7
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ANPIP to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to ANPIP under a 
Subsidiary Finance Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ANPIP, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Finance Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Finance Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart contribution to the 
financing of the Project:
(a)
open and maintain, for the duration of the Project, an account (the Project 
Account) in the name of ANPIP in FCFA in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, make a Deposit into the Project Account, in an amount 
equivalent to FCFA 50 million, to finance the Borrower’s contribution to the Project;
(c)
thereafter, at semiannual intervals, deposit into the Project Account such 
amounts as are estimated to be required for the ensuing six-month period and as shall be agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Association; and
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used exclusively 
to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services for the Project in addition to those financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit or the Cofinancing Agreements.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ANPIP pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.05
Pursuant to Sections 6.01 (a) and 6.02 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Borrower may, after consultations with the Association, remove all responsibility for project 
implementation from ANPIP in the event of ANPIP’s failure to comply with any of the 
commitments set forth in this Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Financing 
Page  8
Agreement and thereupon entrust such responsibility with another private sector entity, without 
prejudice to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenant
Section 4.01.
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, or statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, a financial management system, 
including records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
for the Project performed with audit standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association, and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01.  The Borrower shall by a date not later than six (6) months after the 
Effective Date, appoint to CSO representatives of the private sector to constitute at least one 
third of the members of CSO.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall, by November 30, 2002, appoint, in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, the auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Page  9
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
ANPIP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement 
or the Project Agreement.
(b)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or 
a significant part thereof will be carried out;
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or loan, 
including the French Financing, made to the Borrower for the financing 
of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled, or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor; or
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination, not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and 
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. (a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of  60 days after notice thereof shall have been given 
by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Finance Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and ANPIP, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has :
(i)
opened the Project Account pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement and has deposited therein the initial deposit referred to in 
Page  10
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(ii)
adopted and furnished to the Association the PIM, in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association; and
(iii)
adopted and furnished to the Association the EMP in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
a PIU has been established within ANPIP and the following staff have been 
appointed to it in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement: (i) the 
Director General, (ii) the administrative and financial management specialist, (iii) the irrigation 
financing specialist, (iv) the Producer Association specialist, and (v) the private irrigation 
development specialist.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Association, namely, that:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and ratified and is 
legally binding upon ANPIP in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
the Subsidiary Finance Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and ANPIP in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy 
BP 389
Niamey
Republic of Niger
Facsimile:  
Page  11
(227) 73.59.34
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By /s/                                                                         Joseph Diatta
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                                                               s/ Antoinette M. Sayeh
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Page  12
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
150,000
70%
(2)
Goods
550,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
70% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’
7,300,000
100% 
services
(4)
Grants for 
18,700,000
100% of amount of
           Subprojects                                                                           grants disbursed
(5)
Operating Costs
1,150,000
85%
(6)
Refunding of                                          350,000
Project Preparation
Advance
(7)
Unallocated
3,100,000
TOTAL
31,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of 
which goods, works or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods, 
works or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of implementation of  the Project such as: audits, management, monitoring and supervision, 
including office supplies, administrative support, communication, insurance and utility services, 
Page  13
travel, vehicle operation and maintenance costs, rental expenses, and bank charges but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods, under contracts costing less 
than US$100,000 equivalent each; (b) works, under contracts costing less than US$100,000 
equivalent each; and (c) consultant services, under contracts costing less than US$100,000 
equivalent each for consulting firms and less than US$50,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the livelihood of 
private smallholder farmers through increasing their capacity to produce high value irrigated 
crops.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: 
Irrigation and Agricultural Development 
1.
Enhancing the development of low cost irrigation technologies through: (a) 
dissemination of irrigation equipments and technologies to be used by farmers; (b) fostering the 
establishment of financial and technology services groups; (c) provision of technical advisory 
services for crop enhancement and (d) provision of technical support to selected farmers in 
preparation for their integration into Producer Associations, all through the provision of technical 
advisory services, applied research, equipment, and training of selected irrigation farmers.
2.
Strengthening the productive capacity of selected irrigation farmers through: (a) 
development and dissemination of technology and provision of equipment for the improvement 
of, 
inter alia
,
collection of subterranean water, water pumping and water distribution; and (b) 
provision of technical advisory services and training to selected irrigation farmers on production, 
storage, preservation, processing and marketing of farm produce.
Part B
: 
Institutional Capacity Building
1.
ANPIP and Producers’ Associations
Strengthening the organizational, professional, accounting, financial and coordination 
capacity of ANPIP and Producers’ Associations with the aim of increasing their autonomy and 
sustainability through the provision of technical advisory services and training of selected staff.
Page  14
2.
Public Service Entities
Strengthening the technical, financial, administrative and management capacity of PSE’s, 
through the provision of technical advisory services and training of selected PSE staff.
3.
Private Water Management of ONAHA Perimeters
Transfer of the management of Three ONAHA Perimeters to the private sector to test the 
privatization of ONAHA perimeters, through the provision of legal and technical advisory 
services.
Part C
:
Subproject Grants
1. 
Establishment of a community irrigation investment fund for the provision of Grants to 
selected Producer Associations and Input Suppliers providing for, 
inter alia, 
support to activities 
related to: (a) micro-irrigation, (b) soil enhancement, and (c) improved irrigated crop efficiency.
2.
(a)
Establishment of a MFI fund for the purpose of, 
inter alia
:
(i) building additional 
management capacity within MFI’s for the handling of members’ savings and loans, (ii) 
facilitating the establishment of MFI’s in selected irrigation regions of the Borrower, (iii) 
strengthening the capacity of selected MFI’s to monitor and process Grants under the Project, 
and (iv) strengthening the capacity of MCPEC;
(b)
Provision of Grants through MFI to selected Beneficiaries providing for, 
inter 
alia, 
support to activities related to: (i) micro-irrigation, (ii) soil enhancement, and (iii) improved 
irrigated crop efficiency.
Part D
: Environmental 
Protection
Mitigation of environmental risks stemming from the development of smallholder 
irrigation through the carrying out of studies and provision of technical advisory services and 
training to selected irrigation farmers and Producer Associations.
Part E
: Project 
Management
Provision of technical assistance and training to selected staff of ANPIP’s PIU for the 
efficient administration, coordination, monitoring, supervision and evaluation of Project 
activities.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
Page  15
Section I
:
Institutional Framework
1.
CSO
For the purpose of coordination and general oversight of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain, until the Closing Date, CSO in a form and with functions, staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the Association. CSO shall remain composed, 
inter alia
,
of
representatives of 
PSE’s and Producer Associations with at least one third representation from the private sector 
and shall be headed by a Chairman who shall report directly to the Minister responsible for 
Agricultural Development. CSO shall be responsible for, 
inter alia
:
(a) carrying out annual  
reviews of proposals, work plans and budgets made by ANPIP’s PIU and ensuring their 
consistency with the Program; (b) receiving from ANPIP’s PIU
,
reviewing and approving 
applications for Subproject Grants above the threshold amount of FCFA 10 million under Part C 
of the Project; (c) reviewing the progress made or being made towards achieving the Project’s 
objectives; (d) proposing recommendations for the removal of barriers to the achievement of the 
Project’s objectives, if any; (e) coordinating and participating in Project supervision missions; 
and (f) preparing reports and reviews together with ANPIP’s PIU for the benefit of the 
Association as provided for under Section III of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section II
: 
Reports and Reviews
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, no later than [June 30 of each year] a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, no later than 4 weeks after the submission of the 
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this section or such later date as the Association shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall on or about a date following twenty four months after the Effective 
Date, carry out jointly with the Association, CSO  and ANPIP a Midterm review of the progress 
made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Mid-term Review).
(a)
The Midterm Review shall cover, 
inter alia
:
(i) progress made in meeting the 
Project’s objectives, (ii) results of the monitoring and evaluation activities under the Project, and 
(iii) overall Project performance against the Project performance indicators pursuant to Schedule 
Page  16
5 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the Midterm Review, furnish to 
the Association a separate report describing the status of implementation of each component of 
the Project and a summary report of Project implementation generally, including comments of 
CSO thereon, if any.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare 
an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project 
having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action 
program.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation”  means an  amount  equivalent to FCFA 
1,400,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to FCFA 
700,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
Page  17
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account and the 90-Day 
Advance Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account or any of the 90-Day Advance Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
Page  18
in the Special Account and any of the 90-Day Advance Accounts as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account and any of the 90-Day Advance Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account and any of the 90-Day Advance Accounts will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account and any of the 90-Day Advance 
Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
7.
90-Day Advance Accounts
:
(a)
The Borrower shall cause ANPIP to withdraw from the Special Account and 
deposit into each 90-Day Advance Account sufficient funds to facilitate implementation of the 
Project, provided that the Borrower shall at no time cause the amount held in any 90-Day 
Advance Account to exceed the equivalent of FCFA 30,000,000 each.
(b)
Payments out of 90-Day Advance Accounts shall only be made for eligible 
expenditures in respect of Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the table in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Any withdrawal from any 90-Day Advance Account must be justified to the 
Borrower by the same documentation and other evidence regarding eligible expenditures 
provided for under paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
(d)
If the Association or the Borrower shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding on any 90-Day Advance Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the relevant implementing agency shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association or the Borrower, refund to the relevant Special Account such 
outstanding amount.
Page  19
SCHEDULE 5
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Outcome/Impact Indicators
By the completion date of the Project:
1.
50%
increase in yields and total irrigated production in Project’s new zones of 
intervention compared to 2001; and 
2.
35% increase in profitability per hectare of irrigated production in Project’s new zones 
of intervention, compared to 2001.
Output Indicators
By the completion date of the Project:
1.
75% of farmers involved in the Project successfully adopting new technologies promoted 
by the Project; compared to those used in 2001;
2.
80% of Producer Associations involved through the Project are trained in administrative 
and financial management and related themes;
3.
50% of farmers involved through  the Project are trained in production, storage and 
processing; 
4.
threefold increase in the number of irrigation farmers being served by savings 
associations compared to savings associations membership in 2001; and
5.
50% increase in women’s participation in Project’s new zones of intervention compared 
to the percentage of women participation in Project zones of intervention in 2001.
