                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 27270

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38790; IDA-27140; IDA-27150; IDA-27160; CPL-38800; SCL-3879A; CPL-38810; CPL-38820;
SCL-3882A; TF-28594; TF-28595; TF-28596; TF-28597; TF-28598; TF-28599; TF-28600; TF-28615)

                                                   ON

                               4 LOANS / 3 CREDITS / 7 GEF GRANTS

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$24.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                  TO ANTIGUA & BARBUDA, COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
                         GRENADA, ST. KITTS AND NEVIS, ST. LUCIA AND
                                ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES




                                                FOR THE
                    OECS SHIP-GENERATED WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                                AND THE
                              SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                           November 21, 2003




Caribbean Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin American and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                    (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                   Currency Unit = East Caribbean Dollar (EC$)
                                             US$ = EC$ 2.67

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1    December 31
        (Antigua and Barbuda, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Vincent and the Grenadines)
                                       April 1    March 31
                                            (St. Lucia)
                                         July 1    June 30
                 (Dominica, Organization of Eastern Caribbean States Secretariat)

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A&B                  Antigua and Barbuda
APL                  Adaptable Program Loan
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CDB                  Caribbean Development Bank
DOM                  Dominica
DSWMC                Dominica Solid Waste Management Corporation
EC$                  Eastern Caribbean Dollar
EIB                  European Investment Bank
EU                   European Union
4Rs                  Reduction, Recycling, Recovery and Reuse
FNPD                 Forestry and National Parks Department (Grenada)
GEF                  Global Environmental Facility
GEF-MSP              Global Environmental Facility ­ Medium Sized Project
GSWMA                Grenada Solid Waste Management Authority
GRD                  Grenada
IBRD                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IDA                  International Development Association
IMO                  International Maritime Organization
MARPOL               International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships
MOU                  Memorandum of Understanding
MTR                  Mid-Term Review
MRF                  Material Recovery Facility
NEAP                 National Environmental Management Plan
Nevis SWMA           Nevis Solid Waste Management Authority
NSWMA                National Solid Waste Management Authority (Antigua and Barbuda)
OECS                 Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
OECS-ESDU            Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, Environment and Sustainable
                     Development Unit
OECS-NRMU            Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, Natural Resources Management Unit
PA                   Public Awareness
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PMU                  Project Management Unit

PR            Public Relations
QAG           Quality Assurance Group (World Bank)
RCU           Regional Coordinating Unit
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SIDS          Small Island Developing States
SKN           St. Kitts and Nevis
SLU           St. Lucia
SLSWMA        St. Lucia Solid Waste Management Authority
SVG           St. Vincent and the Grenadines
SWMC          St. Kitts and Nevis Solid Waste Management Corporation
SWME          Solid Waste Management Entities
SWMU/CWSA     Solid Waste Management Unit of the Central Water and Sewerage Authority, St.
              Vincent and the Grenadines
WCISW         Wider Caribbean Initiative on Ship-Generated Waste Project

                            Vice President:   David de Ferranti
               Country Manager/Director:      Caroline Anstey
                 Sector Manager/Director:     Abel Mejia/John Redwood
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Garry Charlier

                                     OECS COUNTRIES
                               Solid Waste Management Project


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry      2-6
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                        6-21
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                         21-24
6. Sustainability                                                             24-26
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                              26-29
8. Lessons Learned                                                            29-30
9. Partner Comments                                                           31-50
10. Additional Information                                                       50
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                          51-55
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                          56-57
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             58
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                          59-60
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             61
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                62
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                         63-64
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                              65-80
Annex 9. Detail of Project Outputs                                            81-84
Annex 10. Detail of Project Financing per Country                             85-98
Annex 11. MAP                                                                    99

Project ID: P006970                                             Project Name: Solid Waste Management Project
Global Supplemental ID: P006957 (Fully Blended)                 Supp. Name: OECS Ship-Generated Waste Management
                                                                Project
Team Leader: Garry Charlier                                     TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                              Report Date: November 21, 2003


1. Project Data
                 Name: Solid Waste Management Project                       L/C/TF Number: CPL-38790; IDA-27140;
                                                                                              IDA-27150; IDA-27160;
                                                                                              CPL-38800; SCL-3879A;
                                                                                              CPL-38810; CPL-38820;
                                                                                              SCL-3882A
   Country/Department: OECS COUNTRIES                                                Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                              Caribbean Region

       Sector/subsector: Solid waste management (87%); Central government administration
                         (13%)
                Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Water resource
                         management (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P);
                         Administrative and civil service reform (P); Regional integration (S)


  KEY DATES                                                           Original                Revised/Actual
          PCD: 09/10/1991                                  Effective: 08/09/1995              11/11/1996
     Appraisal: 01/16/1994                                     MTR: 11/10/1998                12/09/1998
     Approval: 05/04/1995                                   Closing: 12/31/2000               06/30/2003



   Supplemental Name: OECS Ship-Generated Waste Management                  L/C/TF Number: TF-28594; TF-28595;
                        Project                                                               TF-28596; TF-28597;
                                                                                              TF-28598; TF-28599;
                                                                                              TF-28600; TF-28615

       Sector/subsector: Solid waste management (54%); Central government administration
                         (44%); Other social services (2%)
                Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Water resource
                         management (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P);
                         Administrative and civil service reform (P); Biodiversity (S)

  KEY DATES                                                           Original                Revised/Actual
  GEF Council: 09/24/1993                                  Effective: 11/11/1996              11/11/1996
     Appraisal: 01/16/1994                                     MTR: 11/10/1998                12/09/1998
     Approval: 05/04/1995                                   Closing: 12/31/2000               06/30/2003

   Borrower/Implementing Agency:     OECS MEMBER COUNTRIES/OECS
                   Other Partners:   Caribbean Development Bank (CDB); European Investment Bank (EIB); and the
                                     European Union (EU)

STAFF                      Current                                       At Appraisal
Vice President:            David de Ferranti                             Mr. Yoshiaki Abe
Country Director:          Caroline Anstey                               Mr. Phillipe Nouvel
Sector Manager:            Abel Mejia                                    Mr. Eugene McCarthy

Team Leader at ICR:             Garry Charlier                                 Usamah S. Dabbagh
ICR Primary Author:             Jackson Morrill


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                           Rating
                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objective for the Organization of East Caribbean States (OECS) Solid Waste
Management Project was to reduce public health risks and protect the environmental integrity of the islands
and their coastal and marine systems. This was to be accomplished by improving domestic solid waste
management facilities and facilitating compliance with the "Special Area" designation of the Caribbean Sea
for MARPOL 73/78 Annex V wastes. The project sought to reduce terrestrial and marine pollution in this
area by preventing and discouraging indiscriminate disposal of solid waste both on and off-shore. A
further objective was to significantly enhance public health and environmental quality by strengthening the
countries' capacities to manage effectively and dispose of solid waste in an environmentally sustainable
manner.

The development objective for the Global Environmental Facility (GEF)-funded Ship-Generated Waste
Management Project was to protect the environmental integrity of coastal and marine systems in the
Caribbean Sea. This was to be done by facilitating compliance with the special area designation of the
Caribbean Sea for MARPOL 73/78 Annex V wastes and thereby, reducing marine pollution. More
specifically, the project sought to assist the OECS governments to: (i) reduce the pollution of international
and territorial waters caused by ship-generated solid waste by improving the collection, treatment and
disposal of such waste; (ii) establish the appropriate legal and institutional framework to enable
governments to effectively manage and dispose of such waste; (iii) prepare plans and programs to address
the problems of collection, treatment and disposal of liquid waste and to identify regional opportunities for
waste recycling.

While the GEF-funded OECS Ship-Generated Waste and the Solid Waste Management Projects have
different project appraisal documents supported by 14 individual grant/loan/credit agreements, these
projects were considered fully blended during project preparation and supervision. This approach has
proved beneficial by easing administrative burdens and creating synergies between the projects. Given the
decision to fully blend these projects, this ICR provides a single joint rating for performance and
achievement of outcomes and objectives.



                                                           - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions were made to the projects' objectives.

3.3 Original Components:
The difficulty of reconciling an operation that can be viewed from many different angles (e.g. national vs.
regional, ship-generated vs. land-based waste) led to inconsistencies between the SAR and the component
description in the GEF Project Document. Given these inconsistencies, the ICR team has drawn from both
project documents to synthesize the combined project description into four components implemented at
national level and two regional components. Total combined cost for these activities was estimated at
appraisal at US$50.5 million. They comprised US$11.5 million in IBRD/IDA loans and credits; US$12.5
million in GEF Grants; US$8.7 million from the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB); US$6.4 million
from the European Investment Bank (EIB); US$1.9 million from the European Union; and US$9.5 million
in counterpart funding from the six participating OECS countries.

The four national and two regional components are as follows:


National components

Component 1: Investments and improvements in systems for solid waste management storage,
collection and disposal: (US$42.47 million at appraisal). This comprises (i) the procurement of collection,
storage, disposal and monitoring equipment; (ii) the development of new sanitary landfills or managed
disposal sites; (iii) the closure, redemption and reclamation of unsuitable or inappropriate existing dump
sites; (iv) the construction of transfer stations (Grenada and Dominica only); (v) the procurement of
equipment for the treatment of bio-medical/hospital waste (Antigua & Barbuda, St. Lucia and St. Kitts and
Nevis only); and (vi) the procurement of equipment to promote waste recovery and recycling.

Component 2: Investments in port reception facilities: (US$2.65 million at appraisal). This component
financed the procurement of solid waste collection, storage facilities and transport equipment for large
ports, small craft harbors and anchorages.

Component 3: Rationalization of the existing framework for ship and land-based solid waste
management: (partial financing provided under the regional component). This component was designed to
support: (i) the creation of National Solid Waste Management Entities (SWMEs), based on the regional
model; (ii) preparation of Parliament-ready, draft solid waste and ship-generated waste bills; (iii) the
SWMEs effort in developing cost recovery mechanisms to ensure positive cash flows; and (iv) national
public awareness/outreach and education programs.

Component 4: Grenada Dove conservation: (US$0.20 at appraisal) Limited to Grenada, this component
sought to help protect the endangered Grenada dove by: (i) the preparation and execution of a management
plan for the Mt. Hartman National Park and Perseverance Sanctuary; (ii) the construction of a visitor's
center at the Mt. Hartman Estate; and (iii) procurement of equipment for monitoring purposes.




                                                    - 3 -

Regional components

Component 1: Support activities and technical assistance:              (US$3.18 million at appraisal) This
component was designed to finance the following: (i) preparation of model legislation for solid and
ship-generated waste; (ii) preparation of a '4Rs' (reduction, recycling, recovery and re-use) strategy; (iii) a
regional training program and biannual workshops on key waste management issues; (iv) preparation of
ship-generated waste documentation; (v) systems for monitoring and evaluating ship and land-based solid
waste; (vi) a model environmental education program; and (vii) systems for project monitoring and
evaluation. In addition, technical assistance was to be provided for the preparation of sewerage master
plans.

Component 2: Project management support (US$2.00 million at appraisal) The project would finance
project management support to the national implementation units and the new SWMEs, including project
operating and administrative costs.

3.4 Revised Components:
N/A

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Appraisal of this project pre-dated the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). Quality at entry
is rated as Marginally Satisfactory by the ICR.

The objectives of the OECS Ship-Generated and Solid Waste Management Projects were at the time, and
still remain, highly relevant to the countries' development priorities and consistent with the Bank's
strategies. The latter were outlined in both the April 10, 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), and the
current June 4, 2001 CAS for the sub-region. The preparation of the Solid and Ship-Generated Waste
Management Projects coincided with the development of National Environmental Action Plans (NEAPs) in
the OECS countries in the years between 1993 and 1995. These NEAPs, supported by Bank technical
assistance, identified several key priorities for action. In particular, they highlighted the need to improve
solid waste management. Solid waste collection systems varied widely between different countries at the
time, with coverage ranging from 85% in Antigua to 50% in Dominica and Grenada. Lack of coverage or
infrequent collection led to dumping in uncontrolled sites, such as roadside ditches, and litter was a
common concern throughout the region. Poor disposal practices, including indiscriminate burning, led to
visual and odor problems. They also constituted serious health risks from air pollution, ground water and
surface water pollution, vermin, fly and other pest infestations. Recognizing the severity of these problems,
the 1995 CAS committed the Bank to take the "lead role in the two pressing issues of solid waste
management and sewerage."

With regards to ship-generated waste in the wider Caribbean region (including the OECS), the Bank had
taken the lead in early 1990s with the GEF-funded Wider Caribbean Initiative on Ship-Generated Waste
(WCISW) Project. The project's objective was "to provide a regional strategy for the ratification of
Annexes I, II and V of MARPOL 73/78 by the 22 wider Caribbean countries, by providing governments
                                          [1]


with: (i) information on the legal, technical and institutional measures required; and (ii) a forum for
reaching a regional consensus on the actions to be taken." The OECS Ship-Generated Waste Management
Project was designed to take the WCISW Project's objective through to the implementation stage in the
OECS sub-region, providing for port reception facilities, waste management infrastructure and institutional
training programs to facilitate compliance with MARPOL 73/78 Annex V. These were precisely the
follow-up activities highlighted as necessary in the ICR for the WCISW Project (June 25, 1999),



                                                      - 4 -

demonstrating once again the high relevance of the project to the OECS region.

The management of both ship-generated and land-based solid waste continues to be a priority for the OECS
member states. The 2001 CAS notes that, with the increasing reliance on tourism (nearly a quarter of the
GDP in some countries), environmental resources must be managed in a more sustainable way. One of the
threats to sustainable management is the higher "production of liquid and solid waste brought about by
increases in visitors." The CAS also notes that there is a continuing concern that liquid and solid wastes
are still "inadequately managed."

The Bank was well positioned as a catalyst for this project, helping to bring together the six OECS
countries to address jointly one of the most urgent environmental problems facing them, namely the
contamination of their terrestrial environment and the pollution of their coastal zones and the Caribbean
Sea more generally. Working with the OECS governments, regional agencies and other international
agencies and donors to assist the OECS countries in developing a coordinated strategy for solid waste
management at the regional and national levels, the Bank was able to facilitate the development of a strong,
well-designed land-based solid waste management project. Despite these achievements and the project's
high relevance to both the OECS countries' and the Bank's own priorities for development in the region,
project design flaws mostly in the ship-generated waste components hindered the full achievement of the
project objectives. These included an underestimation of costs as well as implementation sequencing
problems. They are the reason for the overall Marginally Satisfactory rating for the project's quality at
entry. The idea of developing a system for inter-changing "MARPOL" bins -- similar to the now common
40ft. and 20ft. long containers -- was inappropriate.        This was because the system was still under
development for the cruise-line industry at the time of project preparation. [2]The project design provided
funds for the purchase of equipment for the SWMEs to manage ship-to-dock waste collection and
transport.    This effectively took over an existing and functioning private sector activity, without any
consideration of the future role of the private sector. The omission to deal with the cost implications of the
implementation of MARPOL 73/78, Annexes I and II -- necessary if Annex V is signed (see Annex A of
the GEF Project Document) -- was based on unreasonably optimistic assumptions about the results of the
on-going WCISW project. The system for collecting waste and transporting it by barge from shipside to
dock was also not adequately designed, with limited attention paid to financial viability and capacity.

The Solid Waste Management Project suffered from overly-optimistic project implementation sequencing:
(i) it significantly underestimated the time it would take to satisfy the conditions for effectiveness; (ii) it
made contingent the procurement of Bank-funded waste management equipment on the completion of
co-financed landfill construction, and because of the delays in landfill construction it resulted in
back-loading the Bank/GEF disbursements; (iii) it scheduled the completion of solid waste management
studies under the regional component before the SWMEs had the capacity to implement the findings and
recommendations; and (iv) it underestimated the complexity and time required to implement an operation
involving five donor agencies, six countries and one regional organization. The inclusion of a sewerage and
wastewater component was over-ambitious, as the institutional framework was not in place and the costs of
completing country-based sewerage master plans proved prohibitive (only Grenada completed one).
Finally, the estimated costs developed during the preparation phase for the construction of the landfills were
woefully low, resulting in lengthy delays as each country had to renegotiate the necessary extra funding
with donor agencies.


Endnotes for section 3.5
[1]The MARPOL 73/78 Convention is the main international convention covering prevention of pollution of the




                                                      - 5 -

marine environment by ships. MARPOL 73/78 contains six annexes that define potential marine wastes addressed
under the treaty. The annexes relevant to this report include: (i) Annex I ­ Prevention of Pollution by Oil; (ii)
Annex II ­ Control of Pollution by Noxious Liquid Substances; (iii) Annex V ­ Prevention of Pollution by
Garbage.
[2]MARPOL bins have never been manufactured, and the system of interchanging bins has never been
implemented in the Caribbean region.



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Before the inception of the Solid and Ship-Generated Waste Management Projects, many if not all national
solid waste management systems were burdened with inadequate institutional arrangements, limited
technical capacities, outdated legislation, poorly managed disposal sites, and collection systems that were
unable to handle the volumes of waste generated. At the same time, years of inappropriate solid and
ship-generated waste management had caused serious health and environmental problems requiring
immediate attention. The Solid and Ship-Generated Waste Projects sought to address these concerns over
health and the environment by improving the institutional framework for solid waste management. The
outcomes are measured by the following four indicators , developed for this ICR in consultation with the
                                                                      [1]


borrower/grant recipients:

         (1)    The establishment of fully functioning autonomous or semi-autonomous SWMEs in each
                participating country;
         (2)    The increased coverage and improved quality of land-based solid waste management services
                (collection, transport and disposal) in each participant country;
         (3)    Increased public awareness of solid waste management issues with resultant behavioral
                changes; and
         (4)    Improved institutional arrangements with functioning systems that enable each participant
                country to manage and dispose of ship-generated waste in accordance with MARPOL V
                73/78, as well as that of leisure craft (yachts).

The overall outcome of the project is rated Satisfactory, as ultimately the project successfully achieved its
objectives. Given the regional nature of this project, the analysis requires an evaluation of the project's
collective efforts to improve solid waste management in the OECS region. Therefore, while the outcome
indicators have been evaluated on a country basis, the following table provides key background information
to help justify the overall outcome rating and set the regional context.

            OECS Participating Countries ­ Selected Background Information
                                  GDP/Capita (US$)* Area (km²)**                        Population**
                 1- A&B                    10,000                     442                 67,448
                 2- DOM                     3,700                     754                 70,158
                 3- GRD                     4,750                     340                 89,211
                 4- SKN                     8,700                     261                 38,736
                  5- SLU                    4,400                     620                160,145
                 6- SVG                     2,900                     389                116,394
                   Total                     N/A                      2,806              542,092
            *The World Factbook: GDP per Capita (Purchasing Power Parity); 2001 Estimates
             ** The World Factbook: July 2002 Estimates (Population)




                                                                 - 6 -

Outcome 1: Established and fully functioning autonomous or semi-autonomous SWMEs in each
participating country.

This outcome measures the project's impact on institutional development in enhancing participating
countries' capacities to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of human and financial resources
in addressing a priority development issue. The legal framework that created and governed the operation of
the SWMEs, established their system of accounts, and outlined their relationship with government was a
key condition for effectiveness. It was subsequently complemented by new, comprehensive solid waste
management legislation that updated the legal framework. Measures such as the hiring of staff, making the
SWMEs operational, implementing cost-recovery mechanisms and securing government subventions were
also supported by the project's components. Together, such conditions of effectiveness and project-driven
activities greatly helped the development of fully functioning SWMEs with central responsibility for
island-wide solid waste management.

The overall rating of this outcome is Satisfactory, based largely on the success of the solid waste
authorities and/or corporations in strengthening solid waste management in the OECS. Greater operative
efficiency has led to increased and more frequent collection coverage (95% or more in five of the six
          [2]


participant countries, with daily service in urban areas and a weekly service (at least) in semi-urban and
rural areas). Disposal practices (proper compaction, elimination of open burning, etc.) have also improved
dramatically. However, across-the-board there is some concern that while five of the six SWMEs have
kept up positive cash flows, the cost recovery mechanisms have not decreased reliance on government
subventions , except in Grenada and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Looking ahead, service charges (like
             [3]


tipping fees and household service charges) will be essential to ensure the sustainability of the SWMEs and
adequate quality of service.

The overall satisfactory rating for Outcome 1 is based on the following analysis for each country:

Summary Table Rating the Achievement of Outcome 1
    Outcome 1        A&B      DOM      GRD       SKN       SLU     SVG     Overall
                       S       HU       HS         S        S      HS         S

Antigua & Barbuda (Satisfactory):

In Antigua and Barbuda, an Act of Parliament of November 16, 1995 created the fully functioning,
semi-autonomous National Solid Waste Management Authority (NSWMA) under the oversight authority
of the Ministry of Health. The NSWMA is currently adequately staffed, with 16 employees and has
contracts with several private collection operators. The NSWMA Board is functioning very well, with an
excellent mix of technical and politically-influential individuals who have ensured sound technical practice
whilst raising the profile of the NSWMA at the highest levels of government. In response to Board
requests, its core staff has demonstrated a high capacity for planning, maintained tight supervision of
activities and submitted monthly financial statements, activity reports and annual budgets. The NSWMA
has developed a good cooperative working relationship with the Central Board of Health, the only Health
Ministry agency to retain solid waste management responsibility through enforcement of the Litter Act.
Areas for further development include the passage of new legislation, the Solid Waste Management Act,
and improved support for the Barbuda Local Council which has taken over day-to-day solid waste
management operations in Barbuda.




                                                     - 7 -

The NSWMA has a positive cash flow, with 40% of its revenue derived from the environmental levy, in
place since 1998. The NSWMA has requested the Cabinet to consider either a household levy (tied to the
electricity bill) or a 1% charge on specific imported goods at point of entry to generate additional revenue.
Now that landfill construction is complete, tipping fees may be instituted by the fourth quarter of 2003 to
cover depreciation costs which have not been budgeted. These efforts would help to reduce reliance on
Government subventions through the Ministry of Health. These provide 60% of revenues and pay nearly
75% of all staff salaries and those of private contractors.

Dominica (Highly Unsatisfactory):

Inadequate staffing and funding have severely limited the Dominica Solid Waste Management
Corporation's (DSWMC) ability to fulfill its operational responsibilities under the 1996 Act of Parliament
and the January 2002 Solid Waste Management Act. The DSWMC was established as a semi-autonomous
entity, but the reality is that it operates merely as an extension of the Ministry of Health. Its leadership has
been weak, as has the guidance provided by its Board of Directors. As of the ICR mission in June 2003,
many positions were vacant, including such key ones as general manager and operations manager.
Resources generated from cost-recovery plans are not transferred directly to the DSWMC, and the
transfers of funds from the Treasury (consolidated fund) have either been only partial or subject to long
delays.    Furthermore, the increasingly difficult macro-economic situation in Dominica has reduced
government subventions to wholly inadequate levels. As a result, the DSWMC lacks the funding needed to
sustain its operations, raising serious questions about its short-to-medium-term viability.

Grenada (Highly Satisfactory)

The Grenada Solid Waste Management Authority (GSWMA), an autonomous entity, has been highly
successful. The GSWMA is fully staffed, with its core staff positions filled by technically qualified people,
and its collection and street sweeping services all contracted out to private operators. A comprehensive
Solid Waste Management Act was passed in 2001, and the GSWMA is currently preparing the
complementary regulations as well as an Integrated Solid Waste Management Strategy. Grenada has also
put in place one of the region's most successful cost recovery mechanisms (considered a regional model and
exemplar of best practice), which has limited Government subventions to below 30%, the lowest in the
region. In addition to implementing the environmental levy (provided 12% of the GSWMA's total revenues
for 1996-2002), Grenada was the first to implement a household service charge for solid waste collection
and disposal services in residential areas, with the charge linked to monthly electricity bills. This has
provided an important alternative source of funds (generating 16% of all operational costs).                 The
GSWMA's largest source of revenue comes from the collection of levies on "white goods." Since January
1, 1997, the GSWMA has received EC$17,000,717 from this levy, or 39% of total operational funds for
1996-2002.

St. Kitts and Nevis (Satisfactory)

The two-island Federation of St. Kitts and Nevis has for the last two years maintained separate
management authorities. The St. Kitts and Nevis Solid Waste Management Corporation (SWMC), created
under Act of Parliament on July 24, 1996, has responsibility for solid waste management on St. Kitts. The
Nevis Solid Waste Management Authority (Nevis SWMA) manages day-to-day operations on Nevis. The
SWMC is now fully staffed, with 102 employees (includes street sweepers) responsible for managing
collection, disposal and the enforcement of local litter laws. The Ministry of Health, previously responsible
for solid waste management, has shifted all of its former staff to the SWMC, playing only an oversight
role.   With an increase in staff, financial sustainability remains a concern for the SWMC, although


                                                       - 8 -

operational budgets have risen from EC$0.9 million in 1999 to EC$2.4 million in 2003. The SWMC had
positive cash flows for 1998-2000, but has since suffered from a reduction in Government subventions and
a fall in the yield from the environmental levy (from EC$0.8 in 2000 to EC$0.2 million in 2002). Passage
of a new Solid Waste Management Act and subsequent regulations remains to be accomplished, as does
completion of the Integrated Solid Waste Management Strategy and the development of new sources of
revenue. On Nevis (around 9,000 inhabitants or less than 25% of total population for the Federation), the
SWMA has been plagued by understaffing and a serious capacity shortfall that requires further training
and close supervision. Tapping new revenue streams, like a recently approved household service charge tied
to monthly electricity bills, will be essential to help cover the operational costs of solid waste management.

St. Lucia (Satisfactory)

The St. Lucia Solid Waste Management Authority (SLSWMA), established at the end of 1996 under the
St. Lucia Solid Waste Management Act, has established the regional standard for private sector
participation in solid waste management services. The SLSWMA is a fully staffed, semi-autonomous
entity with a strong Board of Directors responsible for appointing staff, reviewing budgets and completing
periodic reports. Although privatization has reduced the operational costs of the SLSWMA, it remains
heavily dependent on direct Government funding, with revenue from a white goods levy going directly to
the consolidated fund. Government subventions account for 73% of all revenues, the environmental levy
accounting for the remainder. To ensure long term sustainability, the SLSWMA would benefit from the
development of new income streams, such as tipping fees or household service charges. Also needed is the
future passage of the Solid Waste Management Act and subsequent regulations, as well as completion of
the Integrated Solid Waste Management Strategy.

St. Vincent and the Grenadines (Highly Satisfactory)

The Solid Waste Management Unit is located administratively within the Central Water and Sewerage
Authority (SWMU/CWSA), a semi-autonomous entity, and it has benefited greatly from the service
provision experience of its parent organization. The SWMU/CWSA is fully staffed, with all core positions
filled, and is providing adequate collection and disposal services. St. Vincent and the Grenadines was the
first country to pass a comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act (2000), and the SWMU/CWSA has
since completed, with help from the regional component, the first draft Integrated Solid Waste Management
Strategy. This will be presented shortly to Parliament for approval. The SWMU/CWSA is now working
on the supporting regulations for the Solid Waste Management Act of 2000. Equally noteworthy, the
SWMU/CWSA has greatly improved its supervision of solid waste management in the Grenadines by
establishing local, properly staffed offices there and improving solid waste collection and disposal services
by contracting out to private providers.

St. Vincent and the Grenadines has also been very successful in establishing several cost recovery revenue
streams to reduce the need for reliance on Government subventions. The SWMU/CSWA has put in place a
household flat service charge of EC$5, tied to monthly water bills in St. Vincent and to monthly electricity
bills in the Grenadines. This generated EC$1.5 million (between 1996 and 2002), providing 21% of all
operating income. With 34% of funds coming from the environmental levy, the Government only had to
meet 44% in subventions from 1996-2002.

Outcome 2: Increased coverage and improved quality of land-based solid waste management services
(collection, transport and disposal) in each participating country.

This project outcome achieved a Satisfactory rating. The project has helped nearly all the countries,


                                                        - 9 -

providing new collection and disposal equipment, newly constructed sanitary landfills, closing 17
over-capacity or environmentally harmful dumps, and building technical capacity to support operations.
With the exception of Dominica, all have been able to substantially increase collection coverage and
institute proper disposal techniques, with significant benefits to public health and the environment. Solid
waste management coverage is at, or above, 95% in five of the six countries, and at least 95% of all
land-based waste collected is properly disposed of in landfills. This is a dramatic improvement on the
baseline as measured in 1995, when coverage varied from an estimated 85% in Antigua to 50% in
Dominica and Grenada. Prior to the project, waste disposal was associated with a lack of site capacity,
poor sanitary conditions, indiscriminate burning, visual and odor problems, pollution of ground and surface
water, poor accessibility and management, indiscriminate on-site dumping, and poor compaction practices.
All these deficiencies have been addressed in nearly all participant countries. A project-financed public
opinion survey, completed in June 2003, covering a representative sample of approximately 50 persons per
country, endorsed these conclusions, finding that: (i) collection systems had vastly improved, with more
"reliable" and "professional" sanitation workers who adhere to widely publicized collection schedules; and
(ii) construction of sanitary landfills and improved disposal practices have "greatly reduced odors and put
an end to the harmful smoke" once prevalent on most sites.

Summary Table Rating the Achievement of Outcome 2
    Outcome 2         A&B      DOM       GRD     SKN      SLU      SVG     Overall
                        S       U         HS      S       HS       HS         S


Antigua & Barbuda (Satisfactory)

Significant improvements in the quality of solid waste collection and disposal have served to reduce threats
to the environment and public health from inadequate solid waste management. Collection coverage in
Antigua is now close to 100% (85% in 1995), with private operators handling 60% of the collection zones.
The island has been divided into 14 solid waste management zones, with urban areas (St. John) receiving a
service that is daily, semi-urban areas once or more often twice-weekly, and rural areas one that is weekly.
The NSWMA is currently undergoing an assessment of collection routes to improve efficiency and address
concerns of possible excess collection capacity. Disposal practices have also improved on both islands,
with nearly 95% of all land-based waste reaching managed disposal sites (with proper compaction and no
signs of open burning or pest infestation). Neither of the newly completed sanitary landfills are yet
operational because of construction delays and pending arbitration/litigation arising from contract
disputes. This has meant continued use of old disposal sites at Cook's and Plantation. In addition, the
SWMA has fought an uphill struggle to counter traditional dumping behavior along streams, roadsides or
at illegal dump sites. Improved education and information, as well as an increased enforcement by Health
Ministry staff, will help to reduce litter problems. It remains to be seen whether the Barbuda Town
Council will prove up to maintaining adequate collection and disposal practices.

Dominica (Unsatisfactory)

Because of staffing and financial problems, Dominica has been unable to achieve full collection coverage
throughout the island. Although the collection service in Roseau has improved, the entire south-eastern
section of the island remains unserved by the DSWMC, giving rise to complaints from a wide section of the
community, including tour operators, hotel developers, the diving community and the leaders of a turtle
restoration project. Limited collection, plus continued dumping in roadside ditches and at other illegal
dump sites, were cited by the Dominican Hotel and Tourism Association as direct cause of Dominica's



                                                    - 10 -

inability to satisfy the solid waste criteria for the Green Globe Award.[4]In addition, construction has yet to
begin on the new Fond Colet sanitary landfill, resulting in the continued use of the inadequately managed
and under-capacity Stock Farm site. Without access to the new landfill site, or the necessary financial and
human resources to provide collection services to the entire island, Dominica's citizens and natural
resources will continue to suffer from inadequate solid waste management.

Grenada (Highly Satisfactory)

Collection coverage and frequency, as well as improved disposal practices, merit a highly satisfactory
rating. The GSWMA has successfully reached nearly 100% coverage for the country, a tremendous
improvement on the less than 50% collection rate at the time of project preparation in 1995. The GSWMA
has fully contracted out all collection services to private operators, who service five collection zones
covering the entire country. They collect waste daily in St. Georges and the main suburbs, and twice
weekly in all other areas. The GSWMA has maintained responsibility for managing all disposal services,
and is receiving 100% of collected wastes at the old Perseverance site and the new Dumfries sanitary
landfill in Carriacou. Landfill management has improved dramatically, despite setbacks suffered during the
temporary closure of the Perseverance sanitary landfill owing to landslide damage to the active disposal cell
in late 2001. Open burning and pest infestation have been eliminated.

St. Kitts and Nevis (Satisfactory)

The SWMC has succeeded in reaching over 95% collection coverage, with services provided to Basseterre
and surrounding urban areas once or twice daily, semi-urban areas twice weekly, and all other areas at
least once a week. A "waste characterization" study carried out with project funds found that St. Kitts
relies on the private sector to collect upwards of 75% of its waste, mainly from industrial, institutional,
green and ship-generated sources, suggesting the need for the SWMC actively to monitor private operator
performance. The SWMC has also greatly improved disposal practices, with nearly 100% of waste
collected reaching the landfill. As a result of improved collection, the landfill is now receiving more waste
than originally planned, raising the issue of the need for greater public education on waste reduction,
segregation and re-use. Overall, landfill practices have improved over the 1995 baseline. Prior to the
project, citizens living near the Conaree site suffered serious respiratory illnesses and tourists often
complained about unsightly black smoke from the burning of waste. There are no signs of pest infestations
or open burning at the Conaree site today. On Nevis, the NSWMA has also improved collection, but
disposal remains problematic. The new sanitary landfill is completed but was not yet operational, due to a
problem in the weigh bridge. Open burning was still practiced at the old Low Ground dump site at the time
of the ICR mission.

St. Lucia (Highly Satisfactory)

Collection coverage has reached nearly 100% in St. Lucia, with all collection services provided by private
sector operators. Frequency and reliability have improved, with daily collection in urban areas, once or
twice-weekly collections in semi-urban areas, and weekly ones in rural areas. There are currently 16
franchise contracts for solid waste collection and 14 enterprises are operating collection services across the
island for all waste, excluding industrial and commercial. The improved collection, combined with the
beginnings of changes in attitudes on the part of citizens, has led to cleaner streets in Castries, in
surrounding areas and throughout the island generally.            Disposal practices have also dramatically
improved, with the Ciceron managed disposal site now capped and closed and both the new Deglos sanitary
landfill site and the managed disposal site at Vieux Fort handling all incoming garbage. Open burning, pest



                                                       - 11 -

infestations and offensive smells are things of the past.

St. Vincent and the Grenadines (Highly Satisfactory)

Tremendous improvements in collection and disposal practices merit a highly satisfactory rating for the
SWMU/CWSA. The SWMU/CWSA has achieved nearly 100% collection coverage on both the main
island, as well as in Bequia, Canouan and Union Island in the Grenadines. The SWMU is responsible for
collection on St. Vincent, with private operators handling collection in the Grenadines.                   The
SWMU/CWSA provides daily collection services in the capital city, a weekly service to all other areas on
St. Vincent, and bi-weekly service on all of the Grenadines. The SWMU/CWSA also has ensured that over
95% of all waste collected reaches the landfills on St. Vincent, as well as on Bequia and Union Island.

Outcome 3: Enhanced public awareness of solid waste management issues resulting in behavioral
changes

Prior to this project, OECS governments had no organized public awareness or education campaigns for
solid waste management. Information on domestic solid waste management practices was at best sporadic
and tended to be short-term responses to public health concerns like mosquito or rat control. As a result,
the public, as suggested by a 2000 study conducted in Antigua (Population Based KAP Survey for the
National Solid Waste Management Authority ­ Report), had little knowledge of basic waste management
practices.

To address these shortcomings in public education and awareness, the project provided funding for
campaigns to help increase public information. This was implemented in all the participant countries, with
varying degrees of intensity and success.         The project-funded 2003 public opinion study found that
information dissemination on the part of the SWMEs had led to an increased knowledge among citizens,
generating thereby an overall Satisfactory rating for this outcome. Information products included: (i)
newsletters; (ii) brochures; (iii) posters; (iv) public service announcements (both radio and television); (v)
videos; and (vi) news columns. Further activities included school programs for all age groups, community
clean-up campaigns, demonstration projects on composting and other techniques, and the promotion of the
SWME's through mascots and promotional activities at Carnival and other public gatherings. Through
such activities, the SWMEs may take credit for having popularized concepts such as waste separation,
dealing with bulky and household waste, and composting. The public opinion survey, however, suggests
the need for more work in this area. The public has responded favorably to improved collection and
disposal practices by the SWMEs, and this has resulted in a greater awareness and commitment to
changing attitudes towards waste. Areas for future focus include fostering public support for tipping fees
and other service charges, encouraging continued waste reuse and reduction, and promoting anti-litter
campaigns.

Summary Table Rating the Achievement of Outcome 3
    Outcome 3        A&B        D       G      SKN      SLU      SVG    Overall
                      HS        U      HS       HS       HS      HS        S

The above ratings per country are based on the success of countries in implementing a wide range of public
awareness schemes through the project. The following two tables illustrate these in each country.




                                                      - 12 -

Table1: Regular Information Products
Country      N/letter       Brochures     Posters        PSAs          Radio Prog. Videos      News Columns
A&B          Quarterly      PA/PR         PR/PA          Radio/TV None               PA/PR     Weekly
DOM          N/A            PA            PA             Radio/TV Weekly             N/A       Occasion
GRD          Quarterly      PA            PA             Radio/TV High freq.         PA/PR     Occasion
SKN          Quarterly      PA            N/A            Radio/TV Weekly             N/A       Occasion
SLU          Quarterly      PA            PR/PA          Radio/TV None               PA/PR     Occasion
SVG          Quarterly      N/A           N/A            Radio/TV Weekly             PA/PR     Occasion
Note: PA (Public Awareness); PR (Public Relations); N/A (Not Applicable)




Table 2: Summary of Educational Activities
Country School Presentations             School Books             Activities               Projects
A&B         Primary/Secondary            Infant/Primary           Clean-up campaigns       Composting
DOM         Primary/Secondary            N/A                      Clean-up campaigns       N/A
GRD         Primary/Secondary            Primary/Secondary        Clean-up campaigns       Composting
SKN         Primary/Secondary            N/A                      Clean-up campaigns       N/A
SLU         Primary/Secondary            Infant/Primary           Clean-up campaigns       N/A
SVG         Primary/Secondary            Infant/Primary           Clean-up campaigns       Composting

Outcome 4: Improved institutional arrangements with functioning systems to help each country
manage and dispose effectively of waste generated by ships (in accordance with MARPOL V 73/78)
and leisure craft (yachts).

The general objective of the GEF-funded Ship-Generated Waste Management Project was "to facilitate
compliance with the special area designation of the Caribbean Sea for MARPOL 73/78 Annex wastes, and
thereby, reducing marine pollution in the Caribbean Sea." This objective has been achieved, although not
in the manner originally envisioned in the project design. Instead of using the project's publicly-operated
barge and MARPOL bin system for ship-side waste collection (see national component 2 for more details),
shipping agents in five of the six countries have continued to hire private operators and haulers for
collecting and transporting ship-waste from cruise ships and other large vessels. In Dominica, the
DSWMC places and removes bins for the cruise ships. Ship-generated waste from leisure craft enters the
land-based system, where improvements in collection and disposal have ensured that ship-generated waste
is properly transported and disposed of at sanitary landfills. In addition, the system of ship-waste
documentation (advocated by the project) has been used in several participant countries as a rudimentary
system for tracking ship-generated waste, although more work will be required to ensure that the all ship
waste is properly monitored from ship to dock to landfill. Additional improvements reached because of the
project include: (i) five countries have signed on to MARPOL out of the six (Grenada being the
exception); (ii) there is a much higher awareness about solid waste issues among cruise ships and national
authorities; and (iii) there is draft legislation in all six countries on this, and an Act has been passed in St.
Vincent and the Grenadines.

Summary Table Rating the Achievement of Outcome 4
    Outcome 4         A&B        D        G     SKN        SLU      SVG      Overall
                        U        S        S        S         S      HS           S




                                                         - 13 -

Antigua and Barbuda: (Unsatisfactory)

This unsatisfactory outcome largely reflects the failure of the NSWMA to introduce a ship-generated waste
bill to Parliament and its inability to reach agreement with the Port Authority to formalize responsibilities
for handling ship-generated waste, including the operation of the project-funded barge.            Ship-waste
collection continues to be problematic, and the Ministry of Tourism has placed a formal complaint with the
Port Authority over the current practice of transporting waste onto the docks and through the major tourism
area of St. John. Shipping agents hire private haulers to take waste to the landfill sites without either
oversight or monitoring on the part of the SWME. Consequently, there is inadequate data to show whether
all ship waste actually reaches the landfills. However, Antigua and Barbuda remains dedicated to fulfilling
its commitment as a signatory of MARPOL 73/78, Annex V.




Dominica (Satisfactory)

The DSWMC has made significant strides in establishing a formal system for managing ship-generated
waste. While most cruise vessels do not discharge waste in Dominica, several military vessels have used
the DSWMC's system and it has worked well. Shipping agents notify the General Manager 48 hours
ahead of arrival, and the DSWMC places containers on the dock in advance. Once the waste has been
collected, trucks are waiting to take it to the landfill.      The DSWMC has successfully completed a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Port Authority, but the barge is very under-used. A
ship-generated waste management bill is before Parliament with future passage expected shortly. Dominica
is a signatory to the MARPOL 73/78, Annex V.

Grenada (Satisfactory)

This satisfactory outcome is based largely on the GSWMA's overall highly satisfactory system for
collecting and disposal of all waste. Improvements in land-based collection and disposal have had a
positive impact on the private operators who still collect most large vessel waste but now transport and
dispose of it properly. The GSWMA has also placed bins at all small-craft harbors for the collection of
leisure craft waste, which is also now handled properly. Furthermore, the Port Authority and the GSWMA
have reached agreement on the use of the barge. Several concerns do remain, however. These include: (i)
the failure to move the draft ship-generated waste bill in Parliament, withdrawn after a late objection raised
by the Port Authority despite extensive consultation; and (ii) the country's decision not to sign on to
MARPOL 73/78, Annex V, due primarily to concern over whether it could comply with Annexes I and II,
prerequisites for signing Annex V.

St. Kitts and Nevis (Satisfactory)

The SWMC has established an excellent working relationship with the Port Authority, reflected in a signed
MOU that spells out procedures for the use of the barge and responsibilities for the handling and disposal
of ship-generated waste. The collection system in place for cruise ship waste works well, and while used
only once last calendar year, may be viewed as best practice for the sub-region. St. Kitts has a draft bill on
ship-generated waste ready for Parliament, and St. Kitts and Nevis have signed on to MARPOL 73/78,
Annex 5. On Nevis, the handling of ship-generated waste remains problematic. The NSWMA has been
unsuccessful in establishing an MOU with the Port Authority for the collection of ship-generated waste and
use of the project-funded barge. High operation costs and low port traffic may explain the Port Authority's
unwillingness to take responsibility for the barge. While this is an unsatisfactory outcome for Nevis, St.



                                                    - 14 -

Kitts' performance raises the overall rating to satisfactory.

St. Lucia (Satisfactory)

The SLSWMA has successfully completed an MOU with the Port Authority, and has prepared a draft bill
for Parliament on ship-generated waste management. It has yet to be tabled for review and approval.
Private operators collect all cruise ship and other large vessel waste (the SLSWMA has not procured a
barge), while leisure craft waste is collected in project-procured bins placed at all small-craft harbors.
Improvements in land-based collection and disposal have had a positive impact on the handling of
ship-generated waste. Still, improved waste tracking from ship to disposal site would ensure that all
ship-generated waste is properly collected and disposed of. St. Lucia has signed and ratified MARPOL
73/78, Annex V, and has finalized a strategy for ship-generated waste management after consultation with
all stakeholders.

St. Vincent and the Grenadines (Highly Satisfactory)

This outcome is rated highly satisfactory, particularly in light of the successful passage of the 2002
Ship-Generated Waste Management Act, the first of its kind in the region. Private operators continue to
collect waste from all cruise ships and large vessels, as no barge was procured by St. Vincent under the
project. Bins are in place at all small-craft harbors, and the waste is collected and properly disposed of by
the SWMU/CSWA. The SWMU/CSWA has also, following lengthy delays, completed an MOU (signed in
2002) with the Port Authority. St. Vincent and the Grenadines is a signatory to MARPOL 73/78 Annex V.


Endnotes for section 4.1
[1]It should be noted that it is difficult to measure the health effects and the quality of the environment when solid
waste is well managed -- it is much easier to measure the health effects when it is not -- and this makes for
problems in coming up with indicators to demonstrate the achievement of objectives. The ICR team developed, in
conjunction with the SWMEs from each country, these four outcome indicators to provide some approximate
measurements of the project's benefits with regard to health and the environment.
[2]Operating efficiencies may be assessed by relating operating costs to productivity. Benchmarks were never
established under the project for the optimal ratio of productivity to operating costs, and this is something that
would be useful for future monitoring of SWME performance. One sound benchmark is the unit cost per ton for
collection, disposal and management of solid waste, which in middle-income developing countries ranges from
US$43 to US$100 per ton. Most of the participant countries where adequate data was available fell within this
range (e.g. Antigua ­ US$49 per ton in 2002; St. Lucia ­ US$70 in 2002).

[3]Bank experience in other countries has shown that it is difficult to maintain a service charge for the management
of solid waste, as opposed to water supply, which may easily be turned off if there is a failure to pay. Few countries
have service charges for solid waste management in place, and those that do charge only for collection, with the
transport and disposal services paid for by other revenue sources (mainly taxation). In the case of this project, the
desired result was simply to reduce dependence on limited government revenues by developing alternative sources
of revenue.
[4]Green Globe 21 is a worldwide benchmarking and certification program developed after the United Nations Rio
de Janeiro Earth Summit (1992) and in conjunction with Agenda 21 that facilitates sustainable travel and tourism
for consumers, companies and communities.


4.2 Outputs by components:
National component 1: Introducing solid waste management investments to the existing storage,



                                                          - 15 -

collection and disposal systems in participant countries.

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
This component sought to address major deficiencies in the management of solid waste in the OECS
countries by financing improvements to the existing storage, collection and disposal systems. This was
carried out with the purchase of waste collection and other equipment and the development of appropriate
disposal facilities.   Design flaws, inflation, project delays and lack of capacity all worked against
successful completion of this component. At one point it attained "problem project" status due to severe
disbursement delays. However, through several project extensions, the countries procured nearly the entire
schedule of the equipment and civil works required. Amongst other things, this included eight new sanitary
landfills and one upgraded disposal site; 17 closed or restored dumps; over 13,000 bins for land and
ship-generated waste; some 51 waste collection trucks; and a number of compactor and other disposal
equipment (18 crawler tractors and track loaders, 4 dump trucks, etc.) and other operational equipment.
Among the latter were eight weigh bridges, over 60 waste oil containers, three wood chippers, tire balers,
tire shredders, etc.). Therefore, despite the noted delays, this component is rated as Satisfactory.

Landfill sites: construction and closure

The project provided funding, through parallel financing from the European Investment Bank (EIB), the
European Union (EU) and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), for the construction of eight new
sanitary landfills and one upgraded waste disposal site (out of the 12 in the original project design). Works
are underway or should soon start on the three remaining sites (in Dominica and St. Vincent and the
Grenadines). In addition, 17 (out of 21) old or illegal dumps have been closed and/or restored under the
project. These results are particularly noteworthy in view of the many problems that occurred during
project implementation. While several countries suffered setbacks, including landslides (Grenada) and
disputes over land ownership (Antigua), the main cause of delay was the large discrepancy between the
appraisal estimates and the actual costs of constructing the sanitary landfills. All six countries suffered
significant delays in renegotiating loans with the respective donor agencies, as inflation (over five years),
erosion of the value of the Euro (for the EIB and EU-funded countries) and/or an initial underestimation of
costs all required countries to seek larger amounts to cover construction contracts. These delays threatened
to derail the whole project, and ultimately required the Bank to provide several extensions to ensure
satisfactory completion. Countries with new sanitary landfills still under construction include Dominica
(Fond Colet/EU-financed) and St. Vincent (Wallilabou/CDB-financed) and the Grenadines (Paget
Farm/EU-financed). For a more detailed analysis of this sub-component, see Annex 9 Table 1.

Collection and disposal equipment

This sub-component also suffered significant delays, due largely to design flaws that required withholding
procurement for most of the equipment until the SWMEs were operational and landfill construction was
well underway. While holding to this sequencing was arguably the correct decision, it cost the project, as
disbursement delays in the procurement of the IBRD, IDA and GEF-funded equipment led to the project
receiving a "problem" status at one point in time. However, as the capacity of the SWMEs increased and
the landfill contracts began to move forward, procurement was shifted to the regional level (the Project
Management Unit (PMU) and the OECS/Natural Resource Management Unit (NRMU)) to benefit from
economies of scale. Project design supported the construction of Materials Recovery Facilities (MRFs) in
each country, but only St. Lucia has completed MRFs at both of its new sites. With regards to bio-medical
waste equipment procurement, the costs for incinerators and associated equipment proved to be prohibitive
for all countries and there was concern that their maintenance would tax both the limited local capacities as
well as the budgets of the SWMEs. However, the countries did examine alternative methods of managing


                                                     - 16 -

bio-medical waste, and each has incorporated a plan for its future management. St. Lucia has put in place
an autoclaving unit that is now operational (Deglos landfill) and this provides for the full treatment of
bio-medical waste. Furthermore, the Bank leveraged the experience gained under this project and
incorporated the results of various bio-medical waste audits conducted under the project into new
HIV/AIDS operations in the OECS. This will help to strengthen the bio-medical waste management
system in public health facilities by providing funding for equipment, training, and technical assistance.

National component 2: Investments in port reception facilities for ship-generated waste in participant
countries.

ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory
As previously discussed above (in Section 3.5), project design flaws in the Ship-Generated Waste
Management components prevented the procurement of the MARPOL bins, which were referred to in
project documents but were not in existence at the time of implementation. To compensate, many countries
have made available alternative bins procured under the Solid Waste Management Project for both large
and small craft harbors. All countries, with the exception of St. Lucia and St. Vincent and the Grenadines,
have also procured barges under the project for ship-to-dock handling of waste. However, their costs were
well over the appraisal estimate, resulting in delays while necessary adjustments were negotiated. As
documented in 4.1, the barges have so far been largely under-utilized for a variety of reasons, including: (i)
the lower volume of waste from cruise vessels than originally anticipated; (ii) unwillingness of some Port
Authority to sign the MOUs; and (iii) higher than expected operating costs causing shipping agents to opt
for private haulers. Because of this under-utilization, the barges are not bringing in enough revenue to
cover their operating costs, let alone their maintenance. Some Port Authority representatives (as in Nevis)
say they were reluctant to sign MOUs and take over barge operation for fear that they would be stuck with
the costs of maintaining the barge without opportunities for recovering them.

National component 3: Rationalization of the existing institutional framework for ship and land based
solid waste management in all six countries.

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
While the project provided only very limited funding for this component (through the regional component),
it proved to be one of the most successful components. Activities under this component included: (i) the
creation of SWMEs, based on a regional model, for all six countries; (ii) the preparation of draft laws for
submission to parliament on solid waste management and ship-generated waste management; and (iii) the
development of cost recovery mechanisms to ensure that operational costs were covered for SWMEs. All
six countries successfully established a Solid Waste Management Authority or Corporation, with nearly all
of the SWMEs becoming fully staffed and operational (except Dominica and Nevis). With technical
assistance from the regional component (see regional component 1 below), all six countries prepared draft
legislation on solid waste management, with three parliaments actually passing legislation (Dominica,
Grenada, St. Vincent and the Grenadines). A Ship-Generated Waste Management Act has been passed in
St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and legislation has been drafted in the others (except St. Lucia). Cost
recovery mechanisms have also helped all but two SWMEs (Dominica and Nevis) to cover operational
costs, reducing the level of reliance on Government subventions.

National component 4: Assistance in the establishment of a sanctuary for the threatened Grenada
Dove.

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The concept for this component arose from the discovery of a small population of Grenada Doves during a


                                                    - 17 -

site identification for the proposed Perseverance landfill site. The Government as a result proposed the
formulation of an additional component to the GEF Ship-Generated Waste project whose primary objective
was to provide the endangered Grenada Dove with a protected habitat at the proposed Mt. Hartman
National Park and the Perseverance Sanctuary. After completing the gazettement the National Park's
boundaries as a condition for disbursement, the project supported the procurement of: (i) fencing for the
Park and Sanctuary boundaries; (ii) signs to clearly demarcate the park; (iii) construction of a Park visitor
center; (iv) monitoring equipment; and (v) interpretive materials. To support the management of the Park,
the project was to provide technical assistance, as well as support for a management plan and the building
of an institutional framework (including cost recovery mechanisms).

The Grenada Dove component has been satisfactorily completed.             Construction of the Mt. Hartman
Visitors' Center has been completed (despite serious delays due to heavy rains) and turned over to the
Forestry and National Parks Department (FNDP) for operations. The boundary fences are in place for
both locations, and an additional guardhouse at the Perseverance Sanctuary has been constructed to allay
concerns about trespassing. On the management side, the project supported: (i) the preparation of a
Cabinet-approved Forestry and National Park Management Plan for both the Park and the Sanctuary; (ii) a
Grenada Dove Recovery Plan; (iii) the hiring of two guards for the Perseverance Sanctuary (in line with the
findings of the management plan); and (iv) technical assistance to help train Park employees. Still to be
completed is the implementation of cost recovery mechanisms to ensure sustainability, including entry fees,
merchandise, food services and corporate sponsorships. A follow-up GEF-MSP (Grenada Dry Forest
Bio-diversity Conservation Project with the FNDP), now under way, will ensure that the progress so far
achieved in this component will be maintained.

Regional component 1: Support activities and technical assistance to all countries.

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Implementation of this component needs to be evaluated for two phases. The first relates to the period in
which the Project Management Unit (PMU) implemented all of the regional activities from 1997 to 2000.
Unfortunately, the scheduling of these regional activities did not always go hand-in-hand with SWME
development or project sponsored activities at the national level. This limited their overall impact and
relevance.     During the second phase, from 2001 to 2003, the regional component became more
demand-driven, and project management support was provided by the OECS Environment and Sustainable
Development Unit (ESDU). The OECS-ESDU provided member states with a list of all of the possible
support activities that could be provided by the regional component (in line with project appraisal
documents) at a round table meeting held in August 2001.            Member states selected and prioritized
activities, developing the work plans and procurement plans that became the basis for requests for project
extensions. All countries made clear their preference for this approach and praised the OECS-ESDU for
its responsiveness.

Over the life of the project, 43 studies and targeted technical assistance activities were undertaken under
this component. Some were regional in scope, but the vast majority addressed country specific requests. A
list of the completed studies can be found in Annex 9, Table 3.

Model legislation (Satisfactory).

Comprehensive and harmonized model legislation for shore and ship-generated waste management was
prepared in 1999 under the direction of the PMU. Grenada and St. Vincent and the Grenadines enacted
their own draft national legislation in 2000-02 on the basis of this model. The remaining countries
requested additional assistance in drafting country-specific legislation, and the OECS-ESDU responded by


                                                    - 18 -

providing technical specialists to help prepare draft legislation for Grenada, St. Vincent and the
Grenadines, Dominica, Antigua and Barbuda and St. Kitts and Nevis. In addition, assistance was provided
to Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, and St. Kitts and Nevis for the preparation draft legislation for solid
waste management. Consequently, all countries, with the exception of St. Lucia, have completed draft
legislation for both solid waste and ship-generated waste management by the time of the ICR mission.

Recycling/compost markets (Satisfactory).

The project supported the preparation of '4R' reports (reduction, recycling, recovery and re-use) for all
participant countries.     These reports were undertaken as desk studies, and therefore lacked the
on-the-ground information necessary to make country-specific insights. With the operational development
of the SWMEs, however, they are being used to identify opportunities for re-use or waste reduction.
Additional technical assistance in waste minimization was provided by means of: (i) training SWME staff
in master composting and the provision of manuals, posters, brochures, etc; (ii) preparation of a Used Oil
Strategy that identified sources of used oil and made recommendations about its management, with
suggestions as to the policy and regulatory framework, treatment and disposal methods and public
education; and (iii) bio-medical waste audits, bio-medical waste management plans, and training in how
best to minimize and manage such waste (five of the six countries received assistance). Several countries
have already implemented '4R' activities, including composting programs (all countries), and a promising
waste oil recycling initiative (in St. Lucia).

Training and Workshops: (Satisfactory).

During early project preparation, project management training was not provided to the SWMEs as had
been envisaged in project design.       While the PMU did support the preparation of a training needs
assessment, most countries have noted that this study came too early in implementation, as at that point
they were still establishing the necessary institutional and legislative arrangements. With respect to
workshops, the PMU held at least one annual meeting per year to discuss the issues arising from project
implementation.     After the OECS-NRMU took over the regional component, training became more
thematic in its orientation, with workshops held on specific topics (e.g. waste oil management) in lieu of
meetings to discuss project progress. Training on solid waste management techniques was provided to 42
participants in 2003. In addition, two round tables were held to discuss the status of implementation. A
final symposium was held in June 2003 to discuss the lessons learned from the project and to identify
mechanisms and modalities that would ensure the continuity and sustainability of waste management in the
sub-region.

Ship-generated waste documentation (Satisfactory).

The regional component has been successful in developing ways to ensure oversight for ship-generated
waste from port to landfill, as prescribed in the project design. Several countries, most notably St. Kitts,
have developed a system for handling waste from ship to landfill, which include the shipping agent giving
advance notice, the boarding of the vessel, the recording of the waste, its transfer to the landfill, and the
charging for collection and disposal.       Over and above what is set down in the project design, the
OECS-NRMU has sponsored two studies into the development of a waste tracking system. Such a system
proved to be too costly and too difficult to administer. This is because of the state of current capacities in
the region and the fact that such a system would have to be established in every Caribbean country, not just
the OECS six.




                                                    - 19 -

Systems for monitoring and evaluation (Unsatisfactory).

No formal system has been put in place to monitor the impacts of the deliverables, and project indicators
have never been developed during implementation. However, the PMU and OECS-NRMU did prepare
quarterly reports, as well as providing significant oversight in each country. At the country level, a study
was prepared under PMU guidance for a system to monitor solid waste management operations. However,
this came too early in implementation, as most SWMEs have only now attained the operational capacity to
benefit from such recommendations.

Model environmental education program (Highly Satisfactory).

It was determined early on in the project implementation that a regional approach to developing an
environmental education program would be ineffective. It was decided that each country should develop its
own program, grounded on local circumstances. Seed financing (up to EC$50,000) was provided to five
countries to reimburse their costs. Dominica was the only country that did not adequately access available
funding to undertake the full array of possible public awareness activities. The work completed by the
SWMEs in this component was remarkable, and has been one of the highlights of the project.

Technical assistance in the preparation of sewerage master plans (Unsatisfactory).

The PMU completed a pre-feasibility study early on in project implementation, but only Grenada was able
to prepare a country-specific master plan based on the regional study. This shortcoming was largely due
to: (i) costs of undertaking country-specific master plans, which were seriously underestimated (Grenada's
cost over US$600,000 alone whereas the estimate at the appraisal stage had been US$400,000); (ii)
significant project delays required the Bank and participant countries to refocus efforts on core solid waste
activities; (iii) the Bank had not planned to provide further financing in the sector, as other donors were
already actively involved in wastewater projects; and (iv) most SWMEs did not have water sanitation as
part of their mandate, thus making them less enthusiastic about completing this sub-component.

Regional component 2: Preparation of a workable institutional framework for regional coordination
in the project sectors and facilitating overall project management and monitoring.

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The PMU and the OECS-ESDU provided critical regional leadership by helping to coordinate and move
forward both national and regional-level project activities. Project workshops, roundtables and annual
meetings all facilitated the development of a common approach to solid waste management through
discussion and information sharing amongst the SWMEs. The OECS-NRMU also helped to channel
independent knowledge sharing among SWMEs, by putting interested staff from one SWME in touch with
staff from another country to share experiences or best practices. Finally, the backstopping regional
procurement work taken on by both the PMU and the OECS-ESDU helped countries meet procurement
deadlines, which was key to completing critical project activities. As evidence of the success of the
regional model, the participating countries at a final symposium agreed to the need for maintaining some
regional coordination mechanism to continue information sharing.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A




                                                     - 20 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Substantial
    Institutional       A&B        D        G      SKN      SLU        SVG    Overall
   Development             S       U       HS       S        HS        HS        S

The impact of the project on institutional development was substantial, with Dominica and Nevis the most
                                                                                                       [1]


notable exceptions. Well-functioning SWMEs have been established in each country as autonomous or
semi-autonomous authorities or corporations. Legislation developed under the project has been introduced
into each country, giving the SWMEs sole responsibility for solid waste management. This has removed
responsibility from local government bodies and the public health or environmental units of the ministries
of health. Because of their multiple responsibilities, these were not always able to give proper attention to
solid waste management. A centralized organization has thus been created with specific responsibility for
solid waste management and with the required level of autonomy in decision-making. In addition, cost
recovery mechanisms have been introduced (environmental levies, household service charges, white goods
levies) at various levels in all of the countries and have provided much-needed alternative sources of
financing to help make the SWMEs sustainable. All these represent significant institutional advances, and
ones that have dramatically modified and improved solid waste management in the sub-region.

Endnotes for section 4.5
[1]The original project design did not envisage a separate SWME for Nevis, and arguably it would therefore be
difficult to hold the project accountable for inadequate institutional development on Nevis. The NSWMA was only
created in 2001, and has not benefited (as have other SWMEs) from the experience of implementation and
institutional development gained as a result of the project in previous years.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project suffered a number of unexpected factors that led to delays in implementation. In order to
accommodate these delays and setbacks in the delivery of key products, there were several extensions to the
project's original closing date. The main factors were:

     ·    Delayed passage of legislation through Parliament: While nearly every SWME produced draft
     legislation for solid waste and ship-generated waste management, half of the countries' Parliaments
     have yet to pass Solid Waste Acts, and only one country (St. Vincent and the Grenadines) has passed a
     Ship-Generated Waste Act. These delays in the passage of legislation have prevented the SWMEs
     moving forward in the drafting of supporting regulations and in preparing integrated solid waste
     management plans. The different starting points of the countries with regard to their existing maritime
     legislation, and the existence of two models for such legislation (International Maritime Organization
     (IMO) model and one prepared under the project) delayed the preparation of ship-waste legislation.

     ·    Adverse natural and weather conditions: Due to heavy rains in December 2001, a major
     landslide occurred at the Perseverance site in Grenada, causing the GSWMA to revert to the old site
     and undertake significant remedial action to restore operations at the new landfill. In addition, soil
     conditions at the new Deglos sanitary landfill in St. Lucia made construction much more difficult than
     previously expected, causing serious delays.




                                                         - 21 -

    ·   The complexity of the project's financing structure: The administrative costs from multiple
    donor procedures, forms, etc., combined with the extensive renegotiations required to secure additional
    financing from donors for landfill construction (after redesign and revised cost estimates completed),
    led to significant delays in project implementation.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    ·   Delays in the submission of solid waste management draft bills to Parliament: Delays occurred
    in almost every participant country in moving draft bills through the offices of the Solicitor General or
    Cabinet for their approval before they reached Parliament for final review and passage.

    ·   Lack of direct access on the part of SWMEs to cost recovery resources: While the OECS
    Governments have successfully put in place cost recovery mechanisms, many have been reluctant to
    allow the SWMEs to collect directly the resources raised through these mechanisms. This lack of
    proper governance with cost recovery measures undermines the intended financial autonomy of these
    entities when payments from the consolidated fund are delayed, arrive only in part or simply never
    materialize. This puts the overall sustainability of project achievements at risk.

    ·   Delays in the transfer of human resources and functional responsibilities from ministries to
    the SWMEs: The delays in transferring functional responsibilities and human resources from the
    ministries formerly responsible for solid waste management to the SWMEs affected their rate of
    development and their ability to perform their mandated functions. Some of these functions, including
    street sweeping, drain cleaning, and others (i.e. dealing with the enforcement of litter laws), have
    properly remained within the ministries so as to maintain the distinction between service provider and
    regulator. Many ministries still retain hiring control, thereby reducing the degree of control that
    general managers have over staffing for key functions.

    ·   Strong country ownership: Project success was the direct result of strong ownership at all levels
    of government and within the SWMEs. This was evident from the implementation of cost recovery
    measures in the face of pressures from the cruise ship industry, the transfer of authority for solid waste
    management from established ministries to new entities, and contributions from the consolidated fund
    despite instances of macro-economic difficulty.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    ·   Conflicts in SWME-PMU relationship: The relationship between the SWMEs/PIUs and the
    PMU gradually deteriorated over the course of project implementation. The SWMEs resented what
    they perceived as a top-down approach. They viewed the PMU as unaccountable and lacking in
    transparency. The shift to the OECS-NRMU in 2001 was a positive move, and many of the
    transparency and participatory relationship issues were thereby resolved.

    ·   Inadequate technical and administrative capacity on the part of the PMU: Given the scope of
    the work and the skill mix required in coordinating such a complex project, more resources were
    needed for the regional coordinating entities to monitor national-level progress, as well as fulfill their
    regional activities.

    ·   Staffing delays and limited skills: Several SWMEs suffered from delays in hiring staff, and two
    SWMEs (Nevis and Dominica) are still seriously understaffed. Many found it difficult to locate skilled
    staff, thereby necessitating increased training which was often not included in their budgets. In


                                                     - 22 -

    addition, some SWMEs suffered a lack of staff qualified in financial management and administration,
    resulting in an incapacity to handle Bank procurement and disbursement procedures. This also led on
    occasions to a general inability to appraise the full costs of disposal and collection in day-to-day
    operations.

    ·    Misprocurement by the PMU resulting in suspension of disbursement: The PMU's weak
    procurement capacity, its perceived general lack of transparency and inappropriate procedures in its
    selection and evaluation of consultants, all contributed to the Bank's decision ultimately to declare
    misprocurement on the purchase of office equipment (US$35,000) and consultant contracts
    (US$45,000). This created a great deal of contention amongst the participant countries which were
    required to pay back the funds. It also was an unfortunate distraction that disrupted project
    implementation and disbursement for some time.

    ·    Failure to prepare performance indicators: The SWMEs and the PMU/OECS-NRMU failed to
    prepare key performance indicators, as required under the project. This affected their ability to
    properly monitor progress of key elements of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost were estimated at appraisal to be US$50.5 million, with the GEF providing US$12.5
million, IDA US$4.7 million, IBRD US$6.8 million, and the CDB, EIB and EU providing the remaining
US$26.5 million in parallel financing. The United Kingdom's Department for International Development
(DFID) provided an additional, unforeseen US$1.7 million in parallel financing to St. Lucia for technical
assistance and consultancies that: (i) assisted the SLSWMA in developing a waste disposal strategy and
implementation plan; (ii) supervised the construction of Deglos landfill; and (iii) provided general
cross-support for four years to the SLSWMA. At the time of project closure, project costs had reached
roughly US$54.24 million, slightly exceeding original estimates, due largely to the increased costs for
landfill construction that required additional donor funding. The project disbursed 90 percent of the initial
GEF funding (current value), or US$10.4 million, and 73% of IBRD/IDA funding (current value), or
US$7.6 million. There are several reasons why the project did not fully disperse available funds. They
include: (i) St. Lucia's decision to privatize collection and disposal operations, negating the need for
procuring waste collection equipment; (ii) delayed project implementation, which forced a heavy
backloading of procurement towards the end of the project, resulting in some potential procurement
requests slipping past the deadline; and (iii) Dominica's decision not to draw on any of its IBRD loan. The
table below provides a complete analysis of the initial amount of financing provided by the GEF, IBRD and
IDA, as well as the amount disbursed and percentage of funds disbursed over the life of the project.

The complex financing structure of the project, and in particular its reliance on multiple donor parallel
financing for landfill construction (and other select goods) plus the cost recovery mechanisms for SWME
operational costs, added an element of risk that surfaced when the project started to experience delays due
to the time required to renegotiate landfill construction contracts. In addition, donors brought their own
additional agendas to bear and at times this disrupted project implementation. For example, the landfill
construction in Antigua suffered from disbursement delays because of the broader issue of Antigua's
arrears to the EIB. In countries with weak cost recovery mechanisms, the project suffered as SWMEs
could not carry out project activities without operational funding for staff, training and equipment
maintenance.




                                                     - 23 -

Table showing amount of GEF, IDA and IBRD funds disbursed under the project
  Country        Source of        Initial Amount   Current Allocation*  Amount Disbursed    Percentage (Amt.
                  Funding         (in US$ million     (in US$ million    (in US$ million   Disb./Current)* *
                                     equivalent)        equivalent)        equivalent)
    A&B             GEF                 1.30               1.27               1.23                 97
    DOM             GEF                 0.79               0.78               0.62                 80
                 IDA/IBRD               1.20               1.24               0.47                 38
    GRD             GEF                 1.30               1.16               1.16                100
     SKN            GEF                 1.20               1.01               1.01                100
                   IBRD                 2.13               2.13               1.58                 74
     SLU            GEF                 1.10               1.03               1.02                 99
                 IDA/IBRD               4.58               4.43               3.80                 86
     SVG            GEF                 1.10               0.99               0.99                100
                 IDA/IBRD               3.61               3.46               1.78                 51
  Regional          GEF                 5.70               5.30               4.38                 83
    Totals          GEF                 12.5               11.54              10.41                90
                 IDA/IBRD               11.5               11.26              7.63                 73
*"Current Allocation" taken from World Bank's ICS
**"Percentages" taken from World Bank's ICS and ICR calculations

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
It is likely that the achievements of the project will be maintained because of the project's success in
establishing the improved institutional, technical and financial capacity to manage solid waste in nearly
every participant country.

Antigua and Barbuda (Likely):

The SWMA is now well established in Antigua and Barbuda. It has very skilled technical staff, undertakes
solid reporting and record keeping, provides a high quality service, has extensive public awareness
programs, benefits from good leadership on the Board, and has solid relations with the Ministry of Health.
In addition, the SWMA has operated at positive cash flows, despite an increased reliance on Government
subventions (from 40% in 2001 to 60% in 2002). Future revenue streams include a proposed white goods
levy that would be transferred directly to the SWMA, contributing necessary additional funding to support
operations and to service the EIB loan for landfill construction. Areas of concern include: (i) fragmented
institutional roles and responsibilities that are shared with the Ministry of Health; (ii) failure to have in
place new legislation or regulations for solid or ship-generated waste management; (iii) the need to develop
quantitative output targets and to establish benchmarks for measuring performance; and (iv) the need for
continued support to the Barbuda Council for day-to-day solid waste management operations on Barbuda.

Dominica (Highly Unlikely):

The Dominica SWMC was facing a crisis at the time of the ICR mission. It is not receiving enough
funding from the Government and the environmental levy to maintain adequately its operations. During the
fiscal year 2002, the SWMC received only 66% of the total revenue collected from the environmental levy
and 33% of budgeted Government subventions. This revenue shortfall is unfortunate as the DSWMC has
worked hard despite chronic understaffing to make improvements. Notable achievements include: (i) the
successful passage of a new Solid Waste Management Act and preparation of draft legislation with regard
to ship-generated waste; (ii) some effective public awareness campaigns in spite of budget shortfalls; and
(iii) an excellent record keeping and reporting capacity. If the SWMC does not receive an adequate budget
and stronger support and leadership from its Board, the sustainability of these and other future project



                                                     - 24 -

benefits may be in jeopardy.

Grenada (Highly Likely):

The institutional, technical and financial framework for solid waste management is now well-established in
Grenada. Grenada has moved towards privatizing all collection services, and has implemented strong
control measures to ensure satisfactory service from contractors.         The SWMA maintains a full and
technically capable staff, has a strong Board, and is well established in the community. While a Solid
Waste Management Act is in place and the SWMA has nearly completed its first draft of an integrated
solid waste management plan, the SWMA needs to continue to work on establishing the legal framework
for ship-generated waste. Cost recovery mechanisms have helped to lower the SWMA's reliance on
Government subventions to 28% (from 1995-2002), making it an example for the rest of the region. With
nearly five years of successful operations, project achievements are highly likely to be sustained in Grenada
after closure of the project.

St. Kitts and Nevis (Likely):

The SWMC has made significant progress in establishing an institutional and technical framework for solid
waste management, but there is still room for improvement on Nevis. St. Kitts and Nevis have a Solid
Waste Management Act in place, with a Ship-Generated Waste Bill now before Parliament. While the
SWMC is now fully staffed, the NSWMA will require additional staff and training, in particular on landfill
and financial management. Efforts to increase public awareness have been highly successful, with the
public taking an increasing role in helping the SWMC by segregating waste, undertaking public clean-up
campaigns, and helping to monitor the problem of litter. The SWMC maintains positive cash flows, but
has increasingly relied on Government subventions for funding, with Government contributions moving
from EC$1.20 million in 2002 to EC$1.80 million in 2003. This has coincided with an overall budget
increase from EC$1.16 million in 2000, to EC$1.47 million in 2002, and EC$ 2.39 million in 2003. The
NSWMA, however, appears to be in a much more difficult position. Its funding is insufficient to maintain
positive cash flows. Despite the noted weaknesses on Nevis, the SWMC's hard work and commitment over
the last five years in establishing a high level of service and public awareness ensure the likely
sustainability of overall project benefits.

St. Lucia (Likely):

The SLSWMA has successfully implemented a totally privatized system for collection and disposal,
meaning that it will be able to maintain a much smaller staff and avoid the costs of maintaining equipment
and depreciation.     The SLSWMA's strong management, its competent staff, its solid public image
stemming from a best practice public awareness program, as well as five years of positive cash flows all
suggest that the SLSWMA is well-positioned to maintain the achievements of the project. However, the
SLSWMA has suffered a rapid reduction in revenues from the environmental levy (from 34% in 2001 to
26% in 2002) which, combined with an increase in its budget from EC$8.8 million in 2001 to EC$10
million in 2002, suggest an increasing reliance on Government subventions. The development of additional
cost recovery revenue streams and the future passage of a Solid and Ship-Generated Management Acts
would help strengthen its institutional foundations.

St. Vincent and the Grenadines (Highly Likely):

St. Vincent has established a strong institutional, technical and financial framework for solid waste
management. These are based on the well-established CWSA, which increases the likelihood that project
achievements will be sustained after closure. St. Vincent is the only country to have passed both a Solid



                                                      - 25 -

and a Ship-Generated Waste Management Act, and the SWMU/CWSA is well on its way to completing the
region's first set of supporting regulations and an integrated solid waste management plan. The SWMU is
fully staffed and has capable leadership. It enjoys excellent public relations, spurred on by its quality
service and solid public awareness campaigns. In addition, the SWMU/CWSA has successfully
established an enhanced cost recovery system, with Government subventions providing only about 44% of
its funding from 1995-2002.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The creation of six solid waste authorities or corporations in the OECS countries has dramatically modified
solid waste management in the region. Overall, the entities have been very successful in increasing
collection coverage and improving the disposal of solid waste.             Resources devoted to solid waste
management have been increased in all countries, although it is clear that operating efficiencies, procedures
and levels of funding differ greatly from one entity to another. At the time of project closure, SWMEs have
been operating for several years, ensuring a seamless transition. This is particularly important, as no
follow-up Bank-funded operation is planned.

The management of these institutions recognize the need for sustained regional coordination in the area of
solid waste management, and have already embraced the idea of continued experience and
knowledge-sharing after the project is over. One option that is being contemplated is the creation of an
association of solid waste management authorities/corporations in the region.                 Examples of such
associations exist in Africa in the form of African Water Suppliers Associations and the Water Utilities
Partnership. Participation to any association would be voluntary, and the secretariat should be provided by
one of the SWMEs on a rotating basis. Operating costs of the secretariat should be financed from annual
fees paid by each SWME. Issues to be tackled by such an association could include: (i) the preparation of
technical standards; (ii) the definition of technical and financial indicators; (iii) the definition and review of
a set of benchmark indicators (efficiency of investment, efficiency of operation and maintenance, financial
sustainability, and responsiveness to customers, amongst others); (iv) the promotion of management
information systems; (v) the setting up of a performance data base; (vi) the preparation of toolkits (models
for contracting the private sector, for example); and (vii) the development of capacity building programs
and systems to certify solid waste management operators.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Lending: Marginally Satisfactory

The Bank's leadership in assisting the OECS countries in pulling together a complex project, by promoting
a regional approach and attracting other donors to commit funds to supporting national and regional level
efforts to improve land-based solid waste management is noteworthy. In addition, the project design for the
land-based activities was sound, reducing the impact of the weaknesses of the project's ship-waste aspects.
However, the Bank's overall lending performance is marginally satisfactory for the following reasons: (i)
its 'top down' approach to developing the ship-generated waste management project; (ii) the over ambitious
project design; (iii) serious design defects that resulted in project delays; and (iv) a failure at appraisal to
integrate properly the GEF-funded Ship-Generated Waste Project into the Solid Waste Management Project
SAR.

Project identification and preparation began in early 1991. The primary focus was on the development of a
ship-generated waste management project to take advantage of the progress made by the on-going
GEF-funded WCISW project for the wider Caribbean region. However, after high-level country officials


                                                      - 26 -

made it clear that ship-generated waste management would work only if land-based waste was itself
properly handled, the Bank reacted quickly by working with the countries on preparing additional
land-based solid waste management facilities. The Bank provided the leadership required in helping the
countries persuade a variety of donors to set aside additional funding to pay for the costly infrastructure
works needed to improve land-based solid waste management. This ensured that the countries received a
more relevant project that met their needs, eventually generating significant positive results for solid waste
management.

However, weaknesses in project preparation and design, including most notably the underestimation of
costs for landfill construction, resulted in significant delays while countries renegotiated with donors for
additional financing to cover the actual costs. The effectiveness conditions were ambitious, and this
resulted in long effectiveness delays. The marine waste component unrealistically sought to establish an
innovative marine waste management system with interchanging bins and the use of a barge in countries
where small level private sector collection was already in place. An alternative strategy could have been to
support the SWMEs in building up the capacity to monitor and regulate private haulers. The project
sought to integrate a sewerage component into what was basically a solid waste management project.
Finally, the project sought to have all activities completed by a closing date of 2000. As experience has
shown, this was an overly optimistic target date given the political realities of: (i) establishing completely
new entities and transferring their staff and functions from a pre-existing ministry; (ii) preparing and
presenting to Parliament two new laws, along with regulations, while developing solid waste management
strategies; and (iii) constructing, closing or upgrading landfills while at the same time procuring a myriad
of equipment at the national level with only a very limited capacity to do so.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision: Satisfactory

With all its complexities, this was a very challenging project to supervise. Despite the difficulties of
monitoring progress in several countries, coordinating with other donors, and in spite of those problems
emanating from the design stage, the Bank performed adequately. Along with the countries, it should be
commended for finally completing a project with a satisfactory outcome. The Bank performed over 20
supervision missions, including one mid-term review mission. For the final three years of supervision, each
country received an individualized aide memoire, and these reports were also all circulated to the donors to
keep them abreast of project developments. Changes in the Bank's management team over the life of the
project, including three different task managers and two country directors, had disruptive effects.
However, new management also brought fresh ideas and perspectives that helped to move the project
forward.    The Bank made the strategic -- and in hindsight appropriate -- decision to hold up the
procurement of equipment (IBRD/IDA/GEF financed) until the landfill construction process was well
under way. While this ultimately resulted in lengthy disbursement delays (really a design flaw), it helped to
advance the difficult landfill negotiations that all countries were undergoing with other donors. After the
landfill contracts were on track, the Bank quickly began disbursing funds, and worked diligently with the
regional component to achieve as much as possible within the extension period.

However, there were some weaknesses in supervision. In the 1996-2000 period, better supervision could
have provided more support to individual countries, including an orientation workshop on Bank procedures
and on how to use Bank financial and disbursement officers to help guide procurement. The OECS-ESDU
has noted that during the period in which it was involved, Bank procurement and disbursement officers
were not always readily available. Greater donor harmonization, such as joint missions, common reporting
formats and requirements, and common conditions, while admittedly difficult to coordinate, could have
eased the burden on the SWMEs and the regional coordinating agencies. The Bank should have also



                                                     - 27 -

focused on the need for early project management support for the SWMEs, working with the PMU to
establish performance indicators and provide greater technical assistance.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance: Satisfactory

Despite the weaknesses in project design and preparation, strong project supervision combined with a
highly relevant and valued project objective shared by all participating countries led to the successful
completion of the project. The Bank demonstrated flexibility in providing for project extensions when
needed and properly justified, which shows a commitment to the region and to making an impact on this
important issue. Ultimately, these extensions, along with continued strong supervision, contributed to the
project's satisfactory outcome.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation: Satisfactory

The Borrowers/Grant Recipients worked proactively with the Bank during the preparation of the project to
shift its emphasis from a ship-generated waste project to a comprehensive solid waste management project
that would better address the region's development needs. Throughout the preparation of the project,
respective government officials showed a commitment to making some of the serious changes proposed,
including: (i) implementing cost recovery mechanisms like the environmental levy; (ii) creating new
autonomous or semi-autonomous entities and shifting responsibility from existing ministries; and (iii)
committing to spend more of limited budgets on purchasing land for new sanitary landfill sites. Generally,
country leadership (prime ministers, ministries of finance etc.) recognized the relevance and importance of
this project at this stage, giving it their support.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory

The leadership within the OECS countries involved kept up that initial commitment during implementation
stage of the project. The implementation of the environmental levy ( on visitors) was the consequence of
the political support given by the prime ministers of all six participant countries, in the face of strong
pressure from the cruise ship industry to prevent it. Ministries formerly responsible for solid waste
management agreed to cede all responsibility to the SWMEs in each country. Each country passed laws
establishing the SWMEs, and many have successfully passed solid waste management laws under the
project. Most governments have also committed significant contributions from their consolidated funds to
support the SWMEs, despite severe macro-economic constraints on the budget funds available. However,
in the last two years, several of the borrowing countries have demonstrated less willingness to provide the
SWMEs with direct access to the funds collected from cost recovery levies and service charges. Continued
support from the ministries of finance for enhancing cost recovery systems through the direct transfer of
funds to the SWMEs (instead of using the consolidated fund channel) and the introduction of user fees are
key conditions for future sustainability.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing Agency: Satisfactory




                                                     - 28 -

Project Management Unit (unsatisfactory): The PMU, located within the OECS Secretariat and
responsible for implementing the regional component from 1997 to 2000 successfully executed much of its
early work plan, but was often unresponsive to countries' needs, undertaking several studies that would
have been better left for later. Limited oversight by the OECS Secretariat, combined with a general failure
to act with the due diligence and efficiency that could be expected, led the Bank to suspend disbursements
in 2000 and the OECS Secretariat to disband the PMU. The closure of the PMU and subsequent transfer
of management responsibility to the OECS-ESDU had a disruptive effect on project implementation.

OECS-NRMU/ESDU (Satisfactory): After taking over in late 2000 a seriously delayed and politically
sensitive project, the OECS-ESDU moved the project forward quickly and ensured the satisfactory
completion of the regional component. After the mixed results achieved during the PMU phase, the OECS
Secretariat also took on a more active oversight role that helped to move project activities forward. The
OECS-ESDU provided noteworthy support in undertaking the regional procurement of all project-funded
equipment, which helped to secure project extensions that ultimately saved the project. In addition, the
OECS-ESDU was more responsive to countries because of its more transparent and demand-driven
procedures for providing technical assistance to borrowing countries. Several SWMEs noted, though, that
the OECS-ESDU could have been more supportive in providing project management support to the
SWMEs through flexible funding arrangements like the one used for the public awareness component. The
OECS-ESDU also provided noteworthy support to the SWMEs in designing the legislative bills that were
prepared in nearly every country.

Solid Waste Management Entities (Satisfactory): The effectiveness of the SWMEs in executing project
activities has varied between countries, although overall their commitment and effort has been satisfactory.
In some instances, countries went beyond the confines of the project by conducting additional public
awareness work or implementing innovative cost recovery mechanisms not originally considered.              In
addition, many of the SWMEs have demonstrated a high level of technical capacity. However, almost all of
them suffered serious delays in staffing key positions and in developing the management capacity to
execute the project early in the implementation phase. This resulted in delays that threatened project
cancellation. After receiving the first extension, many SWMEs corrected these problems, and are now fully
staffed with the technical skills required. However, some SWMEs are still struggling to achieve adequate
staffing and key positions remain vacant. These require greater support in order to ensure that the project
achievements are sustained.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.2.1. Overall borrower performance: Satisfactory

The borrowing countries demonstrated the commitment and sustained effort required to ensure the
successful completion of a complex project that taxed each country's technical and financial capacities.
The remaining concern is that the borrowing countries continue to demonstrate this commitment by fully
transferring cost recovery funds to the SWMEs.

8. Lessons Learned

·        Regional Approach provides for greater aid effectiveness in small island developing states
(SIDS): The regional approach provides for greater aid effectiveness through economies of scale and
increasing synergies in areas where resources, both human and financial, are limited. The regional
approach can also help to effectively coordinate the dissemination and replication of lessons learned during
implementation of country-specific components. Furthermore, the regional approach fosters a competitive



                                                    - 29 -

environment between countries, providing benchmarks that inspire greater performance on a national level.
A regional approach may also facilitate regional compliance on international treaty issues, such as
MARPOL 73/78 in this project.

·        Project components must have a built in flexibility and realistic time table when dealing with
multiple countries with varying development capacities and needs. Flexibility can be achieved through
a demand-driven approach. In this project, the change to a demand-driven approach had a positive impact
on implementation, as countries felt they could seek assistance that best fit their needs. Possible
demand-driven processes could also have been useful for the procurement of equipment. It should be noted
that if faced with a similar situation today, the Bank might consider a regional Adaptable Program Loan
(APL), as was done for the multi-country HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Program. Furthermore,
future projects involving multiple donors and countries will require appropriate sequencing for project
activities and realistic time tables to account for the inherent complexity of a regional project.

·        The provision for a Regional Coordinating Unit (RCU) is a useful method that facilitates
project supervision for multiple country projects. The RCU in this project was able to provide key
regional leadership that ensured regional coordination and consistency in approaches to solid waste
management issues. In addition, the RCU provided crucial guidance to countries on Bank procedures and
procurement which were important in helping to move implementation forward. It was also essential that
the RCU maintained a separate project component with funding tied to it, to provide it with some leverage
in dealing with national implementation units.

·        Public awareness and education are essential in building support for major changes. Public
awareness not only may help to ease difficult transitions, such as the move of government salaried
employees and functions from the ministries to the SWMEs, but it can also lead to a higher level of
achievement of outcome objectives. In this project, the public's efforts to change old habits of disposing of
their garbage on the roadside helped to increase the impact of the project. This was only achieved when
community groups took it upon themselves to organize clean-up campaigns. Public awareness campaigns
are relatively inexpensive methods for inducing significant change in community behavior.

·        Importance of balancing regional standardization and potential efficiency gains with country
specific needs to ensure full benefits of joint procurement: Joint procurement can provide benefits in an
operational setting such as the OECS, including economies of scale, harmonization, speed of processing
documentation, and efficient use of limited human and financial resources. However, experience in this
project suggests that these benefits must be balanced with specific country concerns, situations and
capacities.

·        Dealing with sub-national island systems: Project design and implementation needs to take into
account countries that are made up of multiple islands of different size, capacity and development needs.
Mechanisms should be put in place to ensure that implementing agencies based on the main islands actively
supervise project activities on the smaller ones. In project design, more thought should be given to tailoring
equipment and civil works procurement, taking into account the specific technical needs of the smaller
islands in multiple island nations.




                                                      - 30 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Antigua and Barbuda




                                     - 31 -

- 32 -

Commonwealth of Dominica




                            - 33 -

- 34 -

Grenada




           - 35 -

- 36 -

St. Kitts and Nevis

30th October, 20

Mr. Gary Charlier,
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development,
Latin America and Caribbean Region,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street, N. W.,
Washington D. C. 20433,
U. S. A.

Dear Mr. Charlier,

As per your request, please find below the feedback on the ICR.

IN GENERAL

1)        The ICR accurately captures the essence of the experience lived out over the life of a very unique project
which by its very nature and scope sought to break new ground using a novel, creative approach.

2)        On reflection, it appears to me that there are many pluses over and beyond the physical infrastructure
outcomes, institutional strengthening, public awareness/education gains and behavioural/attendenal changes. There
is, additionally, for example, the positive impact of the project on the deepening of the sub-regional (OECS)
integration and functional cooperation process, the gentrifying and professionalizing of the debate about
`garbage'/waste which, in the process, moves "waste matters" several notches up the totem pole of relevance and
importance. Like the West Indies Cricket Team, the OECS Solid and Ship-Generated Waste Management Project
is quietly but steadily assuming the status of a regional institution with similar, positive impact on the psyche of the
citizenry.

3)        It is not clear what is the Bank's (and other Donors') role in the post-closure period. Perhaps, the Bank
(Donors) may care to develop a legacy component to the experience by helping to reduce prospects of reinventing
the wheel. How do we do this? By chronicling and documenting the knowledge gained, the attitudes manifested
and the practices (especially best practices) conducted over time. A comparative analysis of experiences across
cultures/continents will also enhance the legacy of which I speak. I am even more convinced of this need following
the exposure to the June 2003 Symposium in Grenada.

B.        RATINGS

1)        Inherent in the dynamics of the rating system is a clear bias (greater weighting) towards SWME `s that
adopt a dominant private sector approach, particularly in the area of collection and disposal, management of
landfill site. This being the case, the approach should have been indicated more explicitly and directly.

                    On the other hand, there is cause for exercising some balance to such a "weighting" in the
                    assessment given the reservations expressed at the symposium by Grenada with respect to its
                    experiences with its privatization process. Context, culture and circumstance need to feature
                    more visibly in the assessment. Similarly, St.Vincent and the Grenadines was seriously
                    re-examining the pros and cons of assuming responsibility and authority for the collection service
                    after this particular service had been contracted out.

C.        SPECIFIC TO ST.KIITS AND NEVIS

I can live with the assessment of the developments and status of the project as indicated in the ICR. There is no



                                                           - 37 -

cause for serious objection.

It provides a platform from which to confront the challenges identified. The SWMC, in conjunction with the sister
project countries, stands ready to create a post-project coordination agency, which while not sufficient, is indeed
necessary, if each of the island nations are to achieve sustainability and maintain the integrity of our marine and
terrestrial coastlines.

D.        CORRECTIONS

See separate sheet attached which speaks to corrections of text/tables presented in ICR.

A.E. Bridgewater
General Manager/SWMC
St. Kitts and Nevis

Re: Corrections to ICR

Page 55: Table 2               Goods Procured Under The Project

The Table Specific to St. Kitts and Nevis should read as indicated below. Those not mentioned below are correctly
stated.
                    Items Procured                                       St. Kitts and Nevis
                      Waste Bins                                                1500
       Metal Bins (Rear Loader) 3 cubic yards                                    30
               Refuse Collection Trucks                                           6
              Skip Bins ­ 12 cubic yards                                         24
                  (Roll-off Containers)
               Flat Bed Trucks w/Crane                                           02
              Hazardous Waste Storage                                            02


A.E. Bridgewater
General Manager/SWMC




                                                         - 38 -

St. Lucia




             - 39 -

- 40 -

- 41 -

- 42 -

- 43 -

- 44 -

St. Vincent and the Grenadines




                                  - 45 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
European Investment Bank (EIB)

Project: OECS - Ship Generated Waste Management Project
Subject: Draft World Bank Project Implementation Report
Reference: Draft report 9/30/2003

The EIB only participated in the financing of the project in Antigua & Barbuda and in Grenada, including a
proportional share of the overall project management.

                                              Comments to the Draft

Concerning Antigua & Barbuda and Grenada our experience and conclusions largely concur with the findings of
the WB report. Both countries have completed their projects reasonably well but with long time overruns which
only partly owed to semi external factors (slow selection of consultants at PMU level, joint preparation of
procurement documents, demanding EIAs for landfills, unfavourable exchange rates).
We also agree with the report's comments concerning legislation and the Solid Waste Management Authorities
(SWMA) established in both countries. However, despite the current weaknesses observed in Antigua & Barbuda
we have no reasons to doubt the longer term sustainability of the established systems in both countries.

Our lessons from the project



                                                       - 46 -

In our project monitoring and reviews we have observed to following points which should be taken into account in
the preparation/evaluation of future projects:

     ·    The joint procurement was a mixed success. There were initial advantages in the consultant's assistance
          in defining the needs of the individual countries and the preparation of tender documents. However, the
          later steps of the procurement have been complicated rather than facilitated by the joint action:
     ·    Given the small size of the countries the number of potential suppliers who could offer local service and
          maintenance was often limited to a few and most often not the same in the different countries.
     ·    As a consequence and as future maintenance is crucial for the project, the availability of service and spare
          parts should have been weighted much higher in the evaluation criteria with the result that different
          suppliers would have been selected for different countries. This would obviously have jeopardized offers,
          which were made under the assumption of supplying the full lot.
     ·    The GET, CDB and EIB's different eligibility criteria for suppliers made it impossible to invite for tenders
          only once for the entire lot.
     ·    At the same time, in markets of this size, external price pressure might help to prevent local suppliers
          asking excessive prices.
     ·    A weak point in project definition and execution has been the closing of old dump sites as it has rather
          low priority for the local authorities. In the large landfills the surface will be cleaned and collected rubbish
          disposed of in the new landfills, small dumpsites will just be covered and left to decompose. The solution
          is not ideal but we have accepted it considering the size of these dumps and the generally domestic nature
          of the waste combined with the shortage of financing.
     ·    So far no solutions have been found to cope with the more "complicated" wastes for which the islands are
          to small to have individual systems (collection and processing of recyclable materials (paper, glass, small
          batteries, car batteries), compaction of derelict cars and white household goods to allow transport,
          treatment/disposal of waste oils etc.) We hope that the Regional Collaboration concerning solid waste will
          continue and that over time durable solutions can be found


European Union (EU)

(taken from e-mail to the Task Manager dated 10/20/03)

Dear Garry,
Sorry for keeping you waiting, but I have read the report with interest and have no specific comment on the matter.
We have acknowledged the seriousness of the situation in Dominica, where the construction of Fond Colet is about
to start and since the tender came out rather favourable, we are now recruiting a professional landfill manager on
the balances of the project.

Regards Bonne de Jonge




                                                           - 47 -

Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)




                                    - 48 -

- 49 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

None.




                                             - 50 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


           Project Development Objectives                     Outcome Indicators              Actual/latest estimate
Project Objective (SAR): To reduce public health       ·      Established and fully    ·       SWMEs established as
risks and protect the environmental integrity of the functioning in each participating statutory bodies with Governing
islands and their coastal and marine systems, by       country autonomous or           Boards
improving domestic solid waste management              semi-autonomous solid waste     ·       Six functioning and better
facilities and facilitating compliance with the        management entities (SWMEs)     equipped SWMEs established
"Special Area" designation of the Caribbean Sea for                                    ·       Core staff in place in all
MARPOL 73/78 Annex V wastes. The project will                                          countries except Dominica, Nevis,
reduce terrestrial and marine pollution in this area                                   Barbuda that have been adequately
through avoiding and discouraging indiscriminate                                       trained
disposal of solid waste both on and off shore. A                                       ·       Environmental levy on
further objective is to significantly enhance public                                   visitors in place in all six
health and environmental quality by strengthening                                      countries, with additional
the countries' capacities to effectively manage and                                    innovative sources of revenue
dispose of solid waste in an environmentally                                           introduced, including: (i)
sustainable manner.                                                                    household service charge in
                                                                                       Grenada, Nevis, St. Vincent and
GEF Objective: To protect the environmental                                            the Grenadines through electricity
integrity of coastal and marine systems in the                                         or water bills; (ii) levies on
Caribbean Sea, by facilitating compliance with the                                     specific imported goods in St.
special area designation of the Caribbean Sea for                                      Lucia, Antigua, Grenada, and
MARPOL 73/78 Annex V wastes and thereby,                                               Dominica
reducing marine pollution in the Caribbean Sea.                                        ·       SWMEs have positive cash
More specifically, project objectives are to assist the                                flows in all six countries except
OECS governments to: (i) reduce pollution of           ·      Increased coverage and   Dominica
international and territorial waters caused by         improved quality of land-based
ship-generated solid wastes by improving the           solid waste management services ·       SWM coverage equal or
collection, treatment and disposal of ship-generated in each participating country     above 95% in all six countries
solid waste; (ii) establish appropriate legal and      (collection and disposal)       ·       95% or more of land-based
institutional frameworks to enable them to                                             solid waste properly disposed in
effectively manage and dispose of ship-generated                                       sanitary/ managed disposal sites
waste; (iii) prepare plans and programs to address                                     in all six countries
the problems of collection, treatment and disposal of                                  ·       Adequate frequency of
liquid wastes and identify regional opportunities for                                  collection: (i) once or twice daily
recycling of waste.                                                                    in urban areas; (ii) twice weekly in
                                                                                       semi-urban areas; (iii) once or
                                                                                       twice weekly in rural areas
                                                                                       ·       Elimination of open
                                                                                       burning, pest infestation and other
                                                                                       health or environmental threats in
                                                                                       disposal sites in all six countries,
                                                                                       excluding the island of Nevis
                                                                                       ·       Stakeholder survey results
                                                                                       demonstrate improved perception
                                                                                       on cleanliness of beaches/integrity
                                                       ·      Enhanced public awarenessof the environment
                                                       of solid waste management issues
                                                       resulting in behavioral changes ·       Five of six countries
                                                                                       (excluding Dominica) have
                                                                                       proactive and effective public



                                                        - 51 -

                                                                                              education and outreach activities
                                                                                              in place with significant public
                                                                                              and private sector participation
                                                                                              and sponsorship, including: (i)
                                                                                              hotline; (ii) newsletter; (iii) school
                                                                                              programs; (iv) town hall meetings;
                                                                                              (v) national clean-up days (look to
                                                        ·       Improved institutional        attitude survey)
                                                        arrangements with functioning
                                                        systems that enable each              ·      100% of ship-generated
                                                        participating country to manage       waste presented is properly
                                                        and dispose effectively of: (i)       handled and disposed
                                                        ship-generated waste in
                                                        accordance with MARPOL V
                                                        73/78; and (ii) leisure craft
                                                        (yachts)

1. B Output Indicators:
       Country Project                          Output Indicators                                    Actual Output
         Components
1. Introduction of solid waste ·       Provision of storage facilities (bins,        ·       Procured a total of 13,400 waste
management investments and dumpsters or skips) to augment the existing               bins, 50 refuse containers, 158 skips, and
improvements to the existing system for collection and storage of domestically 20 roll-off containers for participating
solid waste storage, collection generated waste, particularly where curb-side        countries, meeting the benchmarks
and disposal systems in each    collection systems are operated                      established in project design
of the six participating
countries.                      ·      Procurement of hauling equipment to           ·       Procured collection and
                                augment systems for the collection of solid waste transportation equipment for participating
                                and its transportation to the point of ultimate      countries, including (51) waste trucks, etc.,
                                disposal                                             meeting the benchmarks established in
                                                                                     project design
                                ·      Closure, redemption and reclamation of
                                unsuitable and inappropriate existing dump sites ·           Closed and reclaimed 17 unsuitable
                                                                                     and inappropriate existing dump sites
                                ·      Development of new sanitary landfill sites
                                for the disposal of solid waste or the upgrading     ·       8 new sanitary landfills and
                                of existing dump sites to waste disposal facilities 1upgraded disposal site (out of 12)
                                                                                     completed and in operation in each
                                                                                     country, with works under way or soon to
                                ·      Procurement of compaction and other           start in the remaining 3 cases
                                operational equipment necessary to assist in the
                                efficient management of solid waste at the new       ·       Operational equipment, including
                                sanitary landfill sites, and to increase landfill    10 track loaders, 6 track-type tractors, 2
                                lifetime and maintain site operation in a            crawler tractors, 4 dump trucks, 8 weigh
                                satisfactory condition                               bridges, over 60 waste oil containers, 3
                                                                                     wood chippers, tire balers, etc. procured for
                                                                                     participating countries, meeting project
                                ·      Construction of transfer stations for solid benchmarks
                                waste (in St. Vincent and the Grenadines and
                                Dominica only), and the procurement of transfer ·            One transfer station constructed and
                                equipment                                            one under construction in Dominica (out of
                                                                                     3 planned)
                                ·      Procurement of equipment to assist in the



                                                          - 52 -

                                monitoring and operation of the improved solid ·            Monitoring equipment, including 8
                                waste management system                              pick-up trucks and numerous items of
                                                                                     office equipment procured and in use in all
                                                                                     participating countries, meeting
                                ·       Procurement of equipment for the             benchmarks established in project design
                                effective treatment of Biomedical/hospital wastes
                                (in Antigua and Barbuda, St. Lucia, and St. Kitts ·         Autoclave and refrigerated
                                and Nevis only)                                      containers procured and in operation in St.
                                                                                     Lucia to treat hospital wastes
                                ·       Provision of equipment to support efforts
                                at extending opportunities for waste recovery and ·         Two materials recovery facilities
                                recycling (including processing of recyclable        established in St. Lucia
                                materials and composting)
2. Investments in port          ·       Collection and storage facilities in place  ·       Over 300 ship-waste bins in place at
reception facilities in all six at large ports, small craft harbors and              ports in all participating countries
countries to address the        anchorages for solid waste from cruise ships,
problem of ship-generated       cargo vessels and small craft including yachts
waste.
                                ·       Equipment procured to facilitate transport ·        Transportation equipment, including
                                of this waste to the site of final disposal, or to a 5 barges, procured and in operation in 4
                                point where the waste may be collected for           countries (excluding St. Lucia and St.
                                eventual disposal (including barges)                 Vincent and the Grenadines)
3. Rationalization of the       ·       Creation of Solid Waste Management          ·       SWMEs established in each
existing institutional          Entities (SWMEs) based on regional model in all participating country
framework for ship and land     six countries
based solid waste management
in all six countries.           ·       SWM bills placed before Parliament in all ·         SWM laws passed in Dominica,
                                countries                                            Grenada, St. Vincent and the Grenadines;
                                                                                     with Parliamentary ready bills in St. Kitts
                                                                                     and Nevis, Antigua; draft bill prepared in
                                                                                     St. Lucia


                                ·       Bills to address ship-generated and leisure ·       St. Vincent , passed law; Dominica,
                                craft waste before Parliament in all countries       Grenada, St. Kitts, Antigua Parliamentary
                                                                                     ready; St. Lucia draft not completed

                                ·       Adequate funding provided to cover full     ·        Full operational costs covered in all
                                operational costs                                    countries (loan serviced in Antigua as
                                                                                     well), except Dominica
4. Assistance in the            ·       Preparation and execution of management ·           Management plan completed and
establishment of a sanctuary    plan for the Park                                    approved by Parliament
for the threatened Grenada
Dove.                           ·       Construction of a visitors center,          ·       Visitor's center, guardhouse and
                                guardhouse, and fencing to demarcate the park        demarcation fencing completed (Mount
                                boundary                                             Hartman and Perseverance)

                                ·       Procurement of equipment necessary for      ·       1 pick-up truck procured for
                                monitoring                                           Forestry and National Park Department
       Regional Project                          Output Indicators
          Components
1(a). Support activities and    1.      Model legislation for solid and             ·       Developed model legislation used by
technical assistance to all     ship-generated waste developed to provide an         each country to formulate national



                                                         - 53 -

countries for project         adequate legislative framework for solid waste   shore-based and ship-generated framework
management, training and      operations                                       laws
education, establishment of                                                    ·      Provided technical legal assistance
common legal frameworks,                                                       ·      Provided support on a demand
developing recycling                                                           driven basis to countries for the
opportunities for solid waste,                                                 development of a National Waste
assistance with the                                                            Management Strategy as required in new
enforcement of MARPOL                                                          legislation in Grenada, St. Kitts, St. Lucia
73/78 Convention, and public                                                   and St. Vincent
awareness programs (GEF       ·      Local and regional markets for compost
Document, pg. 3 § 8);         and recyclable materials identified and          ·      Prepared 4Rs (Reduction, Recycling,
                              negotiated, and technical assistance provided forRecovery and Reuse) strategy with 29
                              waste minimization                               specific action plans for achieving
                                                                               objectives outlined in the strategy; these
                                                                               actions are now incorporated into the
                                                                               Integrated Waste Management Strategies
                                                                               prepared for 4 beneficiary countries
                                                                               (GND,SVG,SLU,SKN). Study for waste oil
                                                                               undertaken. (also possible study for plastics
                                                                               re-cycling was also undertaken).
                              ·      Regional training program and biannual
                              workshops on key waste management issues         ·      Prepared training needs assessment,
                              carried out                                      conducted 13 workshops on master
                                                                               composting, biomedical waste
                                                                               management and various aspects of solid
                                                                               waste management, and held two
                                                                               roundtables and one final symposium to
                                                                               discuss project lessons.
                              ·      Ship-generated solid waste
                              documentation preparation and monitoring         ·      Documentation prepared for all six
                                                                               countries; monitoring not implemented
                                                                               because of the lack of resources and
                                                                               capacities to manage tracking system
                              ·      System for shore-based solid waste
                              management monitoring and evaluation             ·      System now incorporated into draft
                              established                                      Integrated Waste Management Strategies
                                                                               by 4 of the beneficiary countries
                                                                               (GRD,SVG,SLU,SKN)
                              ·      Model environmental education program
                              developed                                        ·      Model program developed but
                                                                               beneficiary countries decided that each
                                                                               country should develop its own program; to
                                                                               this end each country, with the exception of
                                                                               Dominica, was provided a sum of
                                                                               E.C.$50,000 from the Regional Component
                              ·      Systems for project benefit, monitoring
                              and evaluation should be established             ·      Quarterly reports were prepared, but
                                                                               no formalized system was put in place to
                                                                               monitor the impact of deliverables
1(b). Technical assistance for·      Supervision and coordination of technical
the preparation of sewerage   assistance provided for the preparation of       ·      Prepared a regional pre-feasibility
master plans and of a program sanitation, sewerage and sewage treatment and    study, with only Grenada preparing a
of immediate action priority  disposal proposals                               country-specific master plan
sewerage and sewage


                                                      - 54 -

treatment projects in all six
countries, and the
development of detailed
project proposals in these
sectors in at least three of the
countries (SAR 14 § 3.8(a));

2.   Preparation of a workable   ·     Project management support provided to
institutional framework for      national implementation units for administration·      Provided for regional procurement
regional coordination in the     issues                                          of all SWM equipment for each
project sectors and to facilitate                                                participating country and additional
overall management and                                                           assistance on a demand driven basis to all
monitoring of the Project                                                        participating countries
(SAR 14 § 3.8(b)).




                                                       - 55 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                 Percentage of
         Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual                Appraisal
A. Reception facilities                 2.65                    2.24                   87

B. Storage and Collection               8.01                    6.80                   99
System

C. Waste Treatment and                  14.86                  33.23                   224
Disposal

D. Medical Waste                        1.82                    0.63                    5
Treatment and Disposal

E. Project Management and               0.39                    0.22                   85
Institutional Support

F. Grenada Dove                         0.20                    0.23                   115

G. Regional Component                   5.18                    4.54                   88
Land, Taxes and Duties                  9.53                    6.35                   66
Contingencies                           7.86                     --                    ---
Total Project Costs                     50.50                  54.24                   107
Total Financing Required                40.97                  47.89                   117



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                 Procurement Method   1/

Expenditure Category        ICB         NCB           Other 2/        N.B.F.        Total Cost

1. Goods                    18.2          0            1.8              7.4            27.4
(IDA/IBRD)                  (8.5)                     (1.0)                            (9.5)
(GEF)                       (5.3)                     (0.8)                            (6.1)
2. Consultants               4.9          0            2.6              1.8             9.3
(a)Design/
Supervision
(IDA/IBRD)                  (0.8)                     (0.4)                            (1.2)
(GEF)                       (4.0)                     (2.2)                            (6.2)
3. Civil Works                0           0            1.1             12.6            13.7
(IDA/IBRD)                                            (0.9)                            (0.9)
(GEF)                                                 (0.2)                            (0.2)
Total                       23.1          0            5.5             21.8            50.4
(IDA/IBRD)                  (9.3)                     (2.3)                           (11.6)
(GEF)                       (9.3)                     (3.2)                           (12.5)

*Detailed project costing has been included in Annex 10, with a breakdown by country and a
separate table for the Regional Component.



                                                - 56 -

     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ million
     equivalent)
                                                                                    Procurement Method                1/

      Expenditure Category                        ICB                NCB                   Other     2/              N.B.F.                   Total Cost

     1. Goods                                     9.64                0.02                   0.66                      3.37                       13.69
     (IDA/IBRD)                                  (4.58)              (0.02)                 (0.33)                                                (4.63)
     (GEF)                                       (5.36)                                     (0.33)                                                (6.04)
     2. Consultants                               0.35                0.01                   5.01                      5.92                       11.29

     (a) Design/
     Supervision
     (IDA/IBRD)                                  (0.16)              (0.01)                 (0.22)                                                (0.29)
     (GEF)                                       (0.19)                                     (4.38)                                                (5.08)
     3. Civil Works                                2.0                0.04                   0.38                     21.09                       23.51
     (IDA/IBRD)                                   (2.0)                                     (0.32)                                                (2.32)
     (GEF)                                                           (0.04)                 (0.06)                                                (0.10)
     Total                                       12.29                0.07                   5.64                     30.38                       48.38
     (IDA/IBRD)                                  (6.74)              (0.03)                 (0.87)                                                (7.64)
     (GEF)                                       (5.55)              (0.04)                 (4.77)                                               (10.35)

     1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank. All costs include contingencies.

     2/ Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff, training, technical assistance

     services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.

 Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
      Components                           Appraisal Estimate                         Actual/Latest Estimate*                           Percentage of Appraisal
                                      WB       GEF         GOV         CoF.        WB        GEF          GOV         CoF           WB         GEF         GOV   CoF

A. Reception facilities              0.00      2.45        0.00        0.00        0.21       2.03        0.00        0.00           0          83          0     0

B. Storage and                       5.73      0.20        0.00        2.28        3.16       0.89        0.00        2.75           55        445          0    121
Collection System

C. Waste Treatment and               3.12      3.46        0.00        6.05        3.48       2.85        0.00       26.9           112         82          0    417
Disposal

D. Medical Waste                     1.19      0.00        0.00        0.63        0.63       0.00        0.00       0.00            53           0         0     0
Treatment and Disposal

E. Project Management                0.39      0.00        0.00        0.14        0.15       0.00        0.00       0.07            38           0         0    50
and Institutional Support

F. Grenada Dove                      0.00      0.20        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.20        0.00       0.03            0         100          0     0

G. Regional Component                0.00      5.18        0.00        0.00        0.00       4.38        0.00       0.00            0          85          0     0
Land, Taxes and Duties                  --         --       9.53          --      ---           ---       6.35           --                                 67
Contingencies                         1.07        1.0        ---        7.90      ---           ---          --          --        ---          ---         ---  ---
Total Project Costs                   11.5       12.5       9.53        17.0      7.63       10.35        6.35        29.8         66           83          67   175




                                                                               - 57 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 58 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1991                       3    Unknown
              1992                       8    Task Manager, others unknown
              1993                     12     Task Manager, Municipal
                                              Engineer, others unknown
              1994                     11     Task Manager, others unknown
              1995                       2    Task Manager, other unknown

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1994                     15     Task Manager,
                                              Environmental Specialist,
                                              others unknown
              1995                     13     Task Manager, 2 Environmental
                                              Specialists, Lawyer

 Supervision
              March 1996                 1    Task Manager                         S               S
              October 1996               2    Task Manager, Consultant             U               S
              June 1997                  1    Task Manager                         S               S
              October 1997               4    Task Manager, Long-term              S               S
                                              Consultant, Consultant, Project
                                              Coordinator for PMU
              March 1998                 4    Task Managers (2),                   U               U
              (Grenada only)                  Environmental Engineer,
                                              Consultant (Grenada Dove
                                              specialist)
              June 1998                  4    Task Manager, Environment            U               U
                                              Operations Officer, Consultant,
                                              Project Coordinator for PMU
              August 1998                1    Task Manager                         U               U
              October 1998               4    Task Manager for
              (Grenada Dove                   Grenada Dove Project, Ecologist,
              Project only)                   Environmental Engineer,
                                              Consultant (Grenada Dove
                                              specialist)
              November 1998              6    Sector Leader, Task Manager,         U               U
                                              Environmental Specialists (2),
                                              Task Manager for Grenada Dove,
                                              Project Coordinator for PMU
              March 1999                 4    Task Manager, Project                S               S
                                              Coordinator for PMU, Task
                                              Manager for Grenada Dove
                                              Project, Ecologist,
                                              Environmental Engineer
              January/February           3    Task Manager, Senior Project         S               S
              2000                            Officer, Consultant




                                               - 59 -

               May 2000                2    Task Manager, Consultant            S    S
               July 2000               3    Task Manager, Consultants (2)       U    U
               November 2000           4    Sector Leader. Task Manager,        U    S
                                            Procurement Specialist, Financial
                                            Management Officer
               February 2001           2    Sr. Procurement Specialist, Sr.
                                            Financial Management Specialist
               March 2001              1    Task Manager                        S    S
               September 2001          2    Task Manager, Environmental         S    S
                                            Engineer
               February 2002           2    Task Manager, Environmental         S    S
                                            Engineer
               May 2002                1    Financial Management Specialist
               June 2002               1    Task Manager                        S    S
               January 2003            1    Task Manager                        S    S
               February 2003           1    Sr. Procurement Officer
               March 2003              2    Sr. Financial Officer, Consultant

 ICR

               09/21/2001             4     Sr. Water and Sanitation            S    S
                                            Specialist, Port Operations and
                                            Maritime Transport Consultant,
                                            ICR Consultant, Task Manager



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           110.5                            438.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                158.4                            411.9
  Supervision                        357.09                           1,245.7
  ICR                                      15                           53.34
  Total                              640.99                          2,149.14




                                            - 60 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA


s




                                                    - 61 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 62 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bank preparation documents

 1. GEF Project Document, World Bank (1995)
 2. Staff Appraisal Report, World Bank (1995)
 3. Country Assistance Strategy, World Bank (1995)
 4. Regional Environmental Project for The Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, Canadian
 5. Regional Environmental Project for the: Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States: Solid Waste
     Management Component. Preliminary Report, The Canadian Marine Waste Management
     Collaborative (1993).
 6. Regional Environmental Project for the: Organization of Eastern Caribbean States: Solid Waste
     Management Component. Appendix: St. Kitts and Nevis, The Canadian Marine Waste
     Management Collaborative (1993).
 7. Marine Waste Management Collaborative in association with the Novaport/Vaughan International
     Consultants, Ltd. (1994)
 8. Application to: Canadian International Development Agency. Organisation of Eastern Caribbean
     States Ship-Generated Waste Management Project, Sewerge & Sewage Treatment Component,
     Maxim Engineering, Inc. (1995).
 9. Report to: Organization of Eastern Caribbean States Solid Waste Management Project, Sewerage
     & Sewage Treatment Component, Interim Report, Maxim Engineering, Inc. (1996).

Bank project implementation documents

 10.   Project Status Reports (PSRs), World Bank (1995-2003).
 11.   Aide Memoires of Supervision Missions, World Bank (1995-2003).

Main documents prepared by the borrower during implementation

 12. Waste Reduction, Recycling, Recovery and Reuse Strategy and Action Program (including
     addendum with country-specific information from each participating country), Dillon Consulting
     (1999)
 13. Model Solid and Ship-Generated Waste Management Legislation Study, de Romilly and de Romilly,
     Ltd. (1999).
 14. Waste Characterization Study (Dominica, St. Kitts and Nevis), Edison Garraway (2002)
 15. Proposals for Strengthening the Regulatory and Monitoring Capacities of the Environmental
     Health Department of the Ministry of Health of Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia and St.
     Vincent and the Grenadines, Raymond Reid and Winston Thomas (2002)
 16. Grenada Wastewater Management Study, Howard Humphreys Ltd. (1999)
 17. Training Needs Assessment and Programme Design, Edison Garroway (1999)
 18. Biomedical Waste Management Plan (Antigua and Barbuda; St. Lucia; and St. Kitts and Nevis),
     CBCL Ltd. (1999)
 19. National Biomedical Waste Management Plans (one each for Grenada and St. Kitts and Nevis), E
     & ER Group (2002)
 20. Audit of Biomedical Waste Management Practices (Grenada and St. Kitts and Nevis), E & ER
     Group (2002)
 21. Review and Recommendation on a Medical Waste Treatment Technology (St. Kitts and Nevis and
     Grenada), E & ER Group (2002)
 22. St. Kitts & Nevis: National Solid Waste Survey Report; Waste Matters, Carleen Jules (2002).
 23. Training Assessment & Program Design, Garraway & Associates (1999).



                                                - 63 -

24. OECS Solid & Ship-Generated Waste Management Project, Project Management Project (PMU)
    Annual Report (July 1998 ­ July 1999)
25. The Development and Execution of Project Benefit, Monitoring and Evaluation Programmes and
    Waste Management Systems Monitoring and Evaluation, Environmental Solutions Limited (2000).
26. OECS strategy on the Management of Used Oil, Dr. George K. Sammy (2002).
27. Composting Organic Wastes. A Practical Guide to Effective Organic Waste Management,
    Bio-Logic Environmental Systems (2002).
28. Antigua and Barbuda Waste Characterization Training and Demonstration Program: Project
    Report and Procedures Manual ­ Final, Dillon Consulting Limited (2002).
29. Report on Design and Operations Plans Closure of Dumps and Development of New Landfills
    OECS SWMP (St. Vincent & the Grenadines), Golder Associates Ltd., MMM Ltd. (1998)
30. Recommended Biomedical Waste Management Procedures Outline: (Dominica and St. Vincent and
    The Grenadines, Dr. Alan Woodard and Dr. Ira Salkin (2002).
31. Review and Recommendation on a Biomedical Waste Treatment Technology: Commonwealth of
    Dominica, Dr. Ira Salkin (2002).
32. Emerging Technologies for the Treatment of Medical Waste: Considerations for the
    Commonwealth of Dominica, WNWN International, Inc. (2001)
33. Assessment and Recommendations of Biomedical Waste Management Program: Commonwealth of
    Dominica October 23-25, 2001, WNWN International, Inc. (2001).
34. Proposals for Strengthening the Regulatory and Monitoring Capacities of the EHD of the Ministry
    of Health ­ Commonwealth of Dominica with respect to Solid Waste Management, Raymond Reid,
    Winston Thomas and Peter Carr (2002).
35. Emerging Technologies for the Treatment of Medical Waste: Considerations for St. Vincent and
    The Grenadines, Dr. Alan Woodard (2002).
36. Assessment and Recommendations Of St. Vincent and The Grenadines Biomedical Waste
    Management Program, October 26, 2001, Dr. Alan Woodard (2002).
37. Antigua and Barbuda Waste Characterization Training and Demonstration Program: Study
    Program ­ Final, Dillon Consulting (2001).
38. National Biomedical Waste management Plan: Commonwealth of Dominica (Final Report), Dr. Ira
    Salkin (2002).
39. National Biomedical Waste Management Plan: St.Vincent and The Grenadines- Final Draft, Dr.
    Alan Woodard (2002).
40. OECS Solid & Ship-Generated Waste Management Project, Project Management Unit (PMU)
    Annual Report (April 1997-June 1998)
41. Implementation of a Ship Waste Management Program for the OECS, Land and Sea Environmental
    Consultant, Ltd. (2001).
42. Proposals for Strengthening the Regulatory and Monitoring Capacities of the EHD of the Ministry
    of Health ­ Grenada, Carriacou and Petite Martinique with respect to Solid Waste Management,
    Raymond Reid, Winston Thomas and Peter Carr (2002)
43. OECS Solid & Ship-Generated Waste Management Project, Project Management Unit (PMU):
    Technical Report, Dr. Gerard S. Dharmaratne, K. Kevin Seale and Sharon C. Layne (2000)
44. St. Lucia Solid Waste Management Authority Biomedical Waste Management Train the Trainer
    Program. Proceedings, September, 3-5, 2002, Castries, St. Lucia, WNWN International, Inc.
    (2002).
45. Waste Management Systems Monitoring and Evaluation Study, Environmental Solutions in
    association with Witteveen and Bos (2000)
46. Marine Waste Management Information System Study, Ms. Judy Daniel (2002)
47. Evaluation Study of the Public Awareness and Education Component, Mr. Embert Charles (2003)
48. Evaluation Study of Cost Recovery Measures, Mr. Llewelyn Gill (2003)



                                              - 64 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

OECS Solid and Ship-Generated
Waste Management Project

ORGANISATION OF EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES
Environment and Sustainable Development Unit


                                         FINAL EVALUATION REPORT
                                  OF THE SOLID AND SHIP-GENERATED
                                      WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                                        July 2003


1.0    Project Data

Report Date: June 2003

Name: OECS Solid and Ship Generated Waste                                    Region: Latin America and
        Management Project                                                             the Caribbean

Country/Department: Antigua and Barbuda,
                            Commonwealth of Dominica,
                            Grenada.
                            St. Kitts and Nevis
                            St. Lucia,
                            St. Vincent and the Grenadines,

Sector/Sub sector: Ministries of Health/ Environment (St. Kitts and Nevis,
                            St. Vincent and the Grenadines)
                            Ministry of Communications and Works
                            (Commonwealth of Dominica) Ministry of Physical development,
                             Environment and Housing (Saint Lucia)

Key Dates                             Original                    Revised/Actual

PCD: June 1991                        Effective: July 1995        June 1996

Appraisal:
February 1994                                                     Quarterly Reports (PMU/ESDU)

Approval: May 1995                    Closing: June 2000                   June 2003

Borrower/Implementing Agency: National Governments/OECS Secretariat and the National Solid Waste Management
Entities

Other Partners:                            Project Management Unit (PMU) (initially) and the

                                           National Resources Management Unit (NRMU)/Environment and Sustainable
                                           Development Unit (ESDU for the regional component

                                           Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in each country that formed part of the SWMEs

                                           CDB, EIB, EU




                                                          - 65 -

2.0   Principal Performance Ratings of the Project

HS­Highly Satisfactory      S-Satisfactory    U-Unsatisfactory         HU-Highly Unsatisfactory
HL-Highly Likely          L-Likely                  UN-Unlikely           HUN-Highly Unlikely
H-High                    SU-Substantial            M-Modest                    N-Negligible

                                                                       Ratings
Ø         Outcome                                                         S
Ø         Sustainability                                                  L
Ø         Institutional Development Impact                                HS
Ø         Bank Performance                                                S
Ø         Borrower Performance                                            S
Ø         QAG (if available)                                              Not available
Ø         Quality at Entry:                                               U
Ø         Project at Risk at Any time:                                    Yes

3.0 Assessment of Development Objectives and Design and of Quality at Entry

3.1       Original Objectives
The Governments of the participating states of Antigua and Barbuda, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, St. Kitts, Nevis,
Commonwealth of Dominica, Saint. Lucia and Grenada had taken an initiative in 1995 to address the deteriorating condition of
solid waste management in the respective countries. The overall objective of the Solid and Ship-Generated Waste Management
Project (SSGWMP) was to reduce public health risks and protect the environmental integrity of the islands and their coastal
and marine systems, by improving domestic solid waste management facilities and facilitating compliance with the "Special
Area" designation of the Caribbean Sea for MARPOL 73/78 Annex V wastes. Specifically the project objectives were to assist
the OECS governments to (a) improve the coverage and effectiveness of domestic solid waste collection and disposal facilities;
(b) reduce pollution of international and territorial wasters caused by ship-generated solid wastes; (c) improve the collection,
treatment and disposal of ship-generated solid wastes; (d) assist the beneficiary countries in the establishment of appropriate
legal and institutional frameworks to enable effective management and disposal of shore and ship-generated waste; (e) assist in
the preparation of plans and programs to address the problems of collection, treatment and disposal of liquid wastes; and (f)
identify regional opportunities for reduction, recovery and recycling of solid wastes.

These objectives were to be achieved through:
     (a)   Institutional strengthening and improved policy, regulatory and incentive frameworks;
     (b)   Provision of facilities to receive ship-generated and yacht-generated solid wastes;
     (c)   Incremental improvement of domestic solid waste collection and disposal systems to adequately deal with the
           disposal of ship-generated waste;
     (d)   Provision of technical assistance to help in the preparation of sewerage master plans and carry out feasibility studies
           for sewerage and sewage collection, treatment and disposal improvement programmes;
     (e)   The identification of regional opportunities for recycling of waste.

3.2   Revised Objectives
The project objectives were not revised.

3.3   Original Components
The following components were designed to achieve the development objectives of the SSGWMP:

3.3.1 National Components
Specifically the national components included:
     (a)   Provision of storage facilities (bins, dumpsters or skips) to augment the existing system for storage of domestic
           waste, particularly where curb-side collection systems are operated;
     (b)   Procurement of collection and transportation equipment to augment the existing systems for the collection of solid
           waste and its transportation to the point of ultimate disposal;




                                                               - 66 -

     (c)    Provision of collection and storage facilities for the reception of ship-generated wastes at large ports, small craft
            harbors and anchorages from cruise ships, cargo vessels and small crafts including yachts; and procurement of
            equipment to facilitate transport of this waste to the site of final disposal, or to a point where the waste can be
            collected for eventual disposal (including barges);
     (d)    Provision of equipment to support efforts at extending opportunities for waste recovery and recycling (including
            processing of recyclable materials and composting);
     (e)    Construction of transfer stations for solid waste (in two countries only ­ Grenada and Dominica), and the
            procurement of transfer equipment;
     (f)    Development of new sanitary landfill sites for the disposal of solid waste or the upgrading of existing dump sites to
            sanitary landfill facilities and the closure, redemption and reclamation of unsuitable and inappropriate existing
            dump sites;
     (g)    Procurement of compaction and other operational equipment necessary to assist in the correct management of solid
            waste at the new sanitary landfill sites, and to increase landfill lifetime and maintain the operation in a satisfactory
            condition;
     (h)    Procurement of equipment for the effective treatment of hospital wastes (in three countries only ­ Antigua and
            Barbuda, Saint. Lucia, St. Kitts and Nevis)
     (i)    Procurement of equipment to assist in the monitoring and operation of the improved solid waste management
            system; and
     (j)    Assistance with the establishment of a sanctuary for the threatened Grenada Dove (using GET funds in Grenada
            only)

3.3.2     Regional Component
The regional components were intended to focus on two specific areas to include:
(a)       Technical assistance for the preparation of sewage master plans and also a programme of immediate action priority
for sewerage and sewage treatment projects in all six countries, and the development of detailed project proposals in these
sectors in at least three of the countries. The technical assistance component will also include training, education and public
awareness programs in solid waste management and will help to develop regional approaches to such issues as environmental
legislation and to ensure that the full potential benefits of the Project are realized.
(b)       Preparation of a workable institutional framework for regional coordination in the project sectors and to facilitate
overall management and monitoring of the Project. Institutional strengthening and training will be focused both at the regional
and national levels. The project would finance a number of activities to be coordinated through the OECS Secretariat,
including:

     Ø FosteringcooperationamongMemberCountriesoncoordinatedenvironmentalpolicies,strategiesandactionplans;
     Ø Provisionofaconsultationmechanismfortheformulation,strengtheningandharmonizationofenvironmental
     legislation and regulations and for their enforcement;
     Ø Investigationandnegotiationofregionalmarketsforcompostandrecyclablematerials;
     Ø Preparationofdocumentationforthemanagementandmonitoringofshipwaste;
     Ø Organizationofannualregionalwastemanagementworkshopsandseminarsonrelevanttopics(e.g.managementof
     hazardous cargoes at ports, recycling etc.);
     Ø Provisionoftechnicalassistancetonationalagenciesduringimplementationoftheproject.

3.4             Revised Components
While no significant restructuring was done on the project, the Regional Component relating to technical assistance for the
development of plans and programmes and priority arrangements for sewage and sewerage were not pursued or implemented
(An extensive design study financed through the regional Component was undertaken for Grenada). St. Vincent and the
Grenadines undertook a feasibility study with financing from the British Government. Saint. Lucia was unable to access funds
allocated to this component because of the Water and Sewage Authority's performance on another World Bank project.

This component was ill conceived, in that sewage interests and responsibilities laid outside the purview of solid waste
management. Be that as it may, this Component was restructured and the balance of the funds incorporated into the Regional
Component: No activities were however identified for use of these funds.

3.5       Quality at Entry Assessment
An appraisal report was prepared in February 1994 following a mission visit by the team consisting of representatives of the
NRMU, WB, CDB and EIB in addition to specialists in waste management, port management, institutional strengthening,
legislation and enforcement. The BCR rates the quality of entry as unsatisfactory.

While the project objectives were well selected and were consistent with the CAS and the various Governments concerns




                                                                - 67 -

regarding the national waste management systems and the potential for negative impacts on the tourism industry, the range and
duration of national consultations could have been more comprehensive so as to capture the social pulse in an industry that is so
people-related. More time could have been spent by the appraisal mission in determining the national needs, required
mechanisms and appropriate implementation strategies.

Component identification was intended to speak directly to issues that had elicited Government's stated commitment such as
the modification in economic policy to introduce incentives to encourage conservation, introduction of cost recovery
mechanisms for environmental protection and the increase in public awareness and public education.


Project components were well designed in that they identified the key issues that would have been catalytic in influencing
short-term and long term changes in the national practices in waste management. The design of the components however, was
based on a brief assessment of system needs as identified in the appraisal mission. System hardware such as vehicles, plant
equipment and infrastructure were addressed as well as soft engineering issues such as institutional arrangements, legislation
and training, but the design of the implementation mechanisms relative to the various national peculiarities were not
sufficiently assessed. This was particularly evident in the lack of successful implementation of the sewerage and sewer
treatment and the marine waste management components.

The design of the cost recovery component underestimated the level of effort required to achieve the desired success. While the
intended instruments were clear and did realize some levels of the revenue anticipated, the component was overly optimistic
about the SWMEs benefiting directly from these mechanisms that hinged on the Governments' adherence to the terms and
conditions of the initiative. Consideration could have been given to making a loan stipulation that the timely and direct delivery
of receipts from the mechanisms be realized by the SWMEs. In addition, an assumption was based on consistent arrivals in the
cruise ship industry over a projected period. The benefits of this component have not been fully realized by the SWMEs.

The availability of administrative and technical capacity to address the operations of the PIUs in many countries was also
inadequate. The project overestimated the project management skills that existed in the various states to effectively address the
implementation of the national components. As a result only one of the participating states established an independent PIU that
continued to function in parallel with the SWME during the early stages of development. In many of the countries a single
professional represented both the Project Manager of the PIU and subsequently became the General Manager of the established
SWME.

The design, roles and functions of PMU also resulted in significant challenges in effecting implementation of the activities. The
Unit was understaffed relative to the extent of administrative duties encountered for such a broad regional project, involving
various States with different administrative systems and practices although it is arguable whether there is much variation n
administrative systems and practices; - all Government procedures evolve from British colonial civil service systems). The
financing arrangements limited the unit to two (2) budget categories and a replenishment threshold of only US$50,000.00. The
communications expectations between the PMU and the PIUs were not sufficiently articulated, as was the expected level of
supervision of the PMU by the OECS Secretariat.

The intentions of the model environmental education programme also may have required further thought regarding the
implementation mode. While the project designed the model to be developed on a regional basis, national states preferred to
undertake a more localized approach given the variances in social and cultural practices and expectations. However, this
approach underestimated the administrative and technical skills required by the countries to achieve the perceived objectives.
The appropriate approach might have been to let the PMU assist the countries in the development of both programme and
skills, in addition to employing the inputs of the key stakeholders and beneficiaries. This also applies to the development of
policies and legislation.

The design of the ship waste management component was also flawed. It provided for so-called MARPOL V bins and the use
of barges, and imposed an obligation on the countries to receive and manage Annex I and II wastes, without addressing their
capacity to do so. Furthermore, it overestimated the intended role and commitment of the port authorities.

4.0        Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

4.1        Outcome/Achievement of Objectives
The implementation progress is rated as satisfactory. All of the infrastructural development components and the equipment
procurement items have been addressed considerably. Five of the participating States have completed the construction of
disposal facilities and one is in the process of construction (Dominica had not started during the life of the Project). All of the
countries have acquired new waste collection equipment with the accompany bulk containers and skips. SWMEs have been
formed as part of the institutional strengthening, and five of the states have developed and/or passed solid waste management




                                                               - 68 -

legislation with one country's legal instruments in final draft form. Waste characterization studies have been done in all of
these countries within the last two years and these studies have provided the base profiles for future system planning.

On the other hand the Project failed to establish a convincing level of certainty regarding the sustainability of the SWMEs
because of basic assumptions made at the appraisal stage. Income from cost recovery mechanisms of total revenue/allocations
represented 72% in Grenada, 65% in the case of Nevis, 59% for St. Kitts, 56% in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and 42% in
Dominica. In Saint Lucia, the environmental levy contributes to 23% and Government subventions contribute to 77 % of the
Operational Costs. While most of the revenues from the cost recovery mechanisms achieved their targets these funds became
part of the national consolidated fund, and the monies were generally not reallocated to the SWMEs as intended.

The project also failed to ensure the commitment and adherence to the establishment of key performance indicators. While
limited monitoring indicators were identified as schedules in both the Global Environmental Trust Fund Grant Agreement and
Regional Agreement between the participating States and the OECS, the development and processing of data to make even
these determinations were not undertaken. As a result the assessment of the performance has had to be primarily qualitative
with limited data to assess project performance quantitatively.

4.2       Output of Components

4.2.1     Institutional Development.
SWMEs have been established in each country as authorities or corporations. Legislation has been introduced establishing
these institutions with the sole responsibility for solid waste management in the countries This approach has removed the
responsibility from local government bodies and the public/environmental Health Units of the Ministries of Health that had
multiple responsibilities. It has also created a centralised organisation specifically targeting solid waste management issues
with the required level of autonomy in decision-making. These institutions have been structured with a Board of Directors,
appointed by and reporting to the Minister of Health or the Minister of Physical Development, Environment and Housing, in
the case of Saint Lucia The Board governs an executive management team who addresses the day-to-day operations of the
Entities.

It should be noted that the St. Vincent and Grenadines scenario has resulted in the adoption of a model of co-existence with
another institution. This synergistic existence has benefited the sharing of various costs and resources of two fairly related
industries. While this may be seen as an alternative for consideration, the level of its success in other countries may be
determined by country-specific conditions and arrangements. It remains to be seen whether, in the long term, this unique
arrangement will be beneficial.

Some of the issues that need to be addressed as the system is further developed are:
     (a) The commencement of monitoring and regulatory functions by the relevant Ministries.
     (b) Transfer of relevant staff and functions of the Ministries and Public Health Divisions to the SWMEs
     (c) Rationalisation of the reporting responsibility of the street sweepers and drain cleaning crews in some
          countries.

4.2.2     Legislation
All of the countries have successfully introduced new legislation drafted under the project, or have reached the stage of
developing a final draft document awaiting its enactment. Titled the Solid Waste Management Act, the legislation has
facilitated the introduction of new institutional arrangements and has detailed clear power of all the stakeholders involved in
the industry, including the monitoring and regulatory functions. This mechanism has also consolidated the functions to an
identifiable institution, removing the previous concern for the overlap of responsibility. The development and finalisation of
regulations are the next set of steps to completion in some of the countries. Also, the issue of enforcement needs to be
addressed with the relevant Ministries assuming their legislated responsibility for monitoring and regulatory oversight.

4.2.3     Physical Systems.
(i)       Disposal
A disposal site evaluation summary matrix is presented in Table 4.0. The point system was guardedly applied given the recent
commissioning of the sites where the testing of systems and infrastructure was still subject to seasonal stress factors and
variations.

The WBSAR further identified specific environmental issues associated with domestic and ship waste disposal facilities.
Section II, Item B stated:

          The main problems facing all countries (OECS) in achieving efficient and environmentally appropriate disposal of



                                                              - 69 -

           solid waste include:
     (a) lack of capacity at existing landfill sites;
     (b)   poor sanitary conditions at landfill sites;
     (c) indiscriminate burning of waste at these sites;
     (d) visual and odor problems;
     (e) pollution of ground and surface waters through leachate migration;
     (f)   poor accessibility and management of sites;
     (g)   indiscriminate on-site dumping; and
     (h)   inadequate and poorly operated and maintained compaction and other landfill equipment.

If this assessment could be used as a basis for an evaluation done nine years later, it can be comfortably said that the decisions
taken and the efforts made have resulted in significant improvements in the solid waste disposal systems in the OECS
participating states.

The sanitary landfill has been established as the preferred method of final disposal of solid wastes. All of the countries with the
exception of Dominica have already constructed new sanitary landfills. By the end of the second quarter of 2003, Dominica is
expected to commence construction of the Fond Colet sanitary landfill and the closure of the Stock Farm disposal site in the
Roseau area and the Portsmouth site on the northwestern coast of the island. At the time of preparation of this report Nevis and
Antigua had not commenced operations of the newly constructed site and is utilising the existing site adjacent to the
constructed facility. Grenada has also resorted to the use of the old Perseverance Site given the structural failure of the newly
constructed site in close proximity.

All of the disposal operations are addressed directly by the SWMEs except in the case of St. Lucia where management
contracts have been awarded for both the Deglos and the Vieux Fort sites. The standard equipment at all the sites consists of a
Track Bulldozer and a Track Loader with Saint Lucia acquiring a landfill compactor as an additional piece of equipment for the
Deglos Site.

The application of tipping fees as envisaged by the project has been limited to some commercial clients in some of the
countries. This has affected the level of cost recovery anticipated in the design of the system and it is felt that its
implementation may face a challenge in the absence of adequate education and information to the site users.

Concerns have also been raised about the potential of the newly constructed sites to realise their design lives in the absence of
comprehensive waste diversion programmes. Some countries have already begun to segregate bulky items such as derelict
vehicles, white goods and tyres at the sites. While some countries have the option of utilising the older sites in close proximity
for the disposal of these items, other countries are forced to create stock piles with the intention to selectively place them in the
newly designed cells, where caution is exercised to avoid damage to the liner systems.

Despite some of these challenges of the operations in the initial years of development all of the countries have recognized the
benefits of having these upgraded facilities where proper waste disposal procedures could be engineered. The commencement
of new site operating practices has modified the traditional public perception of the open dump concept resulting in an
enhanced image of the function.

(ii)       Collection
All of the collection systems have been enhanced by the introduction of new equipment, and in some cases increased field
supervision. Some systems have improved in reliability, at the same time extending coverage to additional areas. Many of the
countries have acquired rear-loading compactors in capacities ranging from 5 cubic yards to 10 cubic yards to address the
collection of municipal wastes. Crane-equipped vehicles have also been acquired to address bulky wastes. Roll-on roll-off and
skip systems have been introduced or enhanced, targeting larger volumes of wastes from commercial and industrial clients, and
in some cases government institutions that require the storage capacity. These systems utilize storage container capacities of 6
cubic yards to 10 cubic yards. Plastic bins of 250 litres and 350 litres have also been provided under a grant arrangement.

Waste collection programmes are often the most costly component of a solid waste management system. Many variables affect
the efficiency of a collection programme, including frequency of service, type of collection, level of service, crew sizes,
recycling and source-separation procedures, size and type of collection vehicles, size and type of containers, and the mapping of
collection routes. Given the introduction of new hardware as an output of the SSGWMP, a review of the route management
system (i.e. time and motion study, beat balancing, macro and micro-routing) needs to be addressed in each country to
determine route productivity and efficiency of the existing systems.

Also, all of the SWMEs have already engaged or have signaled its intention to elicit greater participation of the private sector




                                                               - 70 -

in the municipal waste collection function. Grenada and St. Lucia have already implemented the use of private contractors for
this function. The indications are that existing companies have demonstrated their ability to fulfill the contract requirements.
This approach should in no way reduce the responsibility for the SWMEs to plan and supervise the delivery of solid waste
collection services. The secret to maintaining the required level of service is to write specifications that assure continuity in the
services needed, at prices that are equitable. At a minimum, plans and licensing should occur, and at a maximum, contracts
should be the mechanism for providing collection services. Efficiency, effectiveness, economic pricing and the protection of
public health and the environment should form the foundation for the use of private service providers.

It should also be noted that varying national physical conditions of routing systems have dictated structural modifications to
newly acquired equipment. These modifications had become necessary where road network designs have limited the
manoeuvring of vehicles. Also, collection equipment maintenance facilities have not been adequately constructed and equipped
(i.e. wash bay, service ramps or pits, specialized service tools and plant equipment, and parts, service and repair manuals) in
countries that have acquired hardware to perform direct collection or to be used as a back-up system.

4.2.4     Marine Waste Management Systems

Generally the proposed collection system as it was perceived, with the accompanying equipment of a barge and bins, has not
been successfully implemented. Many of the countries continue to utilize the private contractor approach, engaged in most
cases by the shipping agents who provide service on an as-requested basis. There is a theory that the increased levels of waste
management technology that now exist on the large naval and cruise vessels have reduced the need for a major waste
management role by the host countries. A view is also held that the required planning and consultation did not go into the
development of an appropriate system that would have adequately provided an effective ship-generated waste management
service.

The issue of the role and responsibility of the Port Authorities for waste management has also been debated. Many Port
Authorities have reiterated their specific responsibility for the management of the movement of vessels and cargo in and out of
the countries and do not subscribe to the theory of having to play a major role in the waste management function. Nevertheless,
both Grenada and St. Kitts have signed Memorandum of Understanding between the Port Authorities and the SWMEs.

Further attention needs to be given to the development of a central national and regional database, accessible to all countries in
the Wider Caribbean. Countries also need to revisit the national system for ship-generated waste management, establishing
clear national and regional policies and programmes that are guided by IMO specifications and standards, as is being
undertaken in Saint Lucia and the Commonwealth of Dominica.

4.2.5     Financial - Cost Recovery Mechanisms
Several mechanisms for cost recovery have been identified to facilitate sustainability of the SWMEs and its systems emerging
from the SSGWMP. These mechanisms include:
      ·   An Environmental levy on visitor arrivals applied at both the seaport and the airport averaging US$1.50 per visitor
      ·   A household service tax or charge (at the proposal stage in some countries and implemented in Grenada, St. Vincent
          and the Grenadines and Nevis)
      ·   Environmental Protection Levy on items entering the country, such as motor vehicles, refrigerators and freezers, tyres,
          batteries, goods containers made of plastic, glass, metal or paperboard, empty containers made of plastic, glass, metal
          or paperboard
      ·   Haulage and disposal fees for ship-generated wastes
      ·   Tipping fees for ship-generated wastes
      ·   Haulage fees for land-based solid wastes
      ·   Scheduled reduction in Government subventions

While these mechanisms, where implemented, have yielded a significant percentage of projected recoveries, the SWMEs have
not been receiving all of the funds of the projected revenue on a timely basis. In some of the countries accessing these funds is
sometimes problematic, which results in a build up of monthly deficits with a liability profile that threatens the organization's
existence as a going concern. Where some countries have access to a greater percentage of the recoveries, concern has been
raised as to the possibility of an unexpected change in government policies and attitudes towards solid waste management as a
national priority.

Both St. Lucia and Antigua and Barbuda have developed position papers on new initiatives for revenue generation. Some of
these initiatives include fees on vehicle licenses, a medical institution levy, and operational fees to private contractors, fees to
small commercial enterprises and fees for the disposal of special wastes. The growing concerns to date for the sustainability of
the systems may require a revision of the design of these mechanisms.




                                                               - 71 -

Annex 3 provides a detailed analysis of the cost recovery mechanisms in 4 of the beneficiary countries

4.2.6     Strategy for 4Rs
Strategies were defined, in the very early stages of the Project, in the absence of waste characterisation studies and the required
understanding of the economic feasibility on a national basis. The waste types and volumes of waste items would have dictated
fairly accurate strategy decisions which would have also impacted on the design considerations for the landfill and collection
components. An understanding of the percentage distribution of recoverable items would have also provided sufficient data to
inform the possibilities and assumptions that went into identifying the strategies. While the strategy documents have been
presented, none has been adopted to date in their entirety. Elements of the strategy documents have been incorporated into the
respective Integrated Waste Management Strategy and Action Plan for Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, and St.
Vincent and the Grenadines

4.3       Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return
No NPV or ERR was undertaken at the appraisal stage of the project.

4.4       Financial Rate of Return
No financial rate of return was done at the time of the appraisal estimation.

4.5       Institutional Development Impact
SWMEs have been established in each country as authorities or corporations. Legislation developed under the project has been
introduced establishing these institutions with the sole responsibility for solid waste management in the countries. This
approach has removed the responsibility from local government bodies and the public/environmental health units of the
Ministries of Health that had multiple responsibilities. It has also created a centralised organisation empowering it with
specific responsibility for solid waste management issues with the required level of autonomy in decision-making. These
institutions have been structured with a Board of Directors, appointed by and reporting to the Minister of Health or the
Ministry of Physical Development, Environment and Housing in the case of St. Lucia. The Board governs an executive
management team who addresses the day-to-day operations of the entities. The formation of these entities has set the
institutional framework for improvement of management and control of solid wastes and the development of cost recovery
mechanisms for services provided.

It should be noted that the St. Vincent scenario has resulted in the adoption of a model of co-existence with another institution.
This synergistic existence has benefited the sharing of various costs and resources of two fairly related industries. While this
may be seen as an alternative for consideration, the level of its success in other countries may be determined by
country-specific conditions and arrangements.

5.0       Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1       Factors outside the control of the Government or implementing agency
Growth in the OECS continued on a downward path averaging 2.4 percent in 1999-2000 compared to 3.2 percent in the 1990s
and 5.5 percent in the 1980s. Further declines are expected in 2003. The WTO ruling against the preferential treatment of
Caribbean bananas accelerated this trend, and there was a marked increase in the incidence of catastrophic weather
phenomena. More recently, the combined slowdown in the global economy and increasing competition from other Caribbean
destinations dampened growth in tourism receipts and budding manufactured exports. The September 11th World Trade Centre
bombing incident has worsened the situation. A major drought put further pressure on declining crop production. This national
situation in many of the countries has created a competitive environment for generated revenues of which waste management
normally occupies fairly low priority. This scenario may have impacted on the levels and timeliness of cost recovery allocation
transferred to the SWMEs.

Equipment procurement had also been affected by inflation where the processing period between the decisions to acquire and
actual receipt of the hardware was unnecessarily long. This resulted in additional transaction costs to the Countries that were
not built-in to initial estimates.

Foreign exchange fluctuations also impacted on financial transaction between the Countries and the Bank regarding the
reimbursement of funds. Loan arrangements were negotiated in one currency and had to be converted to another currency at the
time of disbursements by which time foreign exchange rates would have made some movement.

5.2       Factors generally subject to government control
While the government demonstrated its commitment to the implementation of the recommended cost recovery mechanisms, that
commitment was not extended to the reallocation of the collected funds so as to ensure the sustainability of the SWMEs. The




                                                              - 72 -

intended financial independence of these entities continue to be retarded by the poor levels and timeliness of allocations from
the State This dependence on Government subventions is reflected in a range of 28% in the case of Grenada to 58% in the case
of Dominica, and 77% in the case of Saint Lucia, over the period 1996 to June 2003. There is concern that receipts from
monies generated by the cost recovery mechanisms are reallocated and represented as Government's subvention or support to
the entities.

In some countries the delay by Government in the approval for transfer of the human resources that perform relevant functions
in solid waste management has affected the rate of development, strengthening and on-going management of the SWMEs and
their responsibilities. These functions include the sweeping and drain cleaning functions. As a result management at the
SWMEs lack the control over the staff who continues to retain its reporting responsibility to departments or institutions such as
the Public Health Departments and the Ministry of Works and Public Transport.

A stronger Governance structure for the project at both the regional and national levels could have paralleled the
implementation of the components and the development and operations of the SWMEs. The absence of a PIU in many of the
countries resulted in a dual role being played as both Project Manager and General Manager of the newly formed SWMEs with
the accompanying challenges of development. While the PIUs and the PMU had a collaborative responsibility at the regional
level, at the national level tighter monitoring and evaluation was needed under a defined governance structure. This structure
would have defined clear accountability mechanisms, scheduled required reporting benchmarks and delivered prescribed
evaluation parameters.

The issue of land acquisition also needs to be addressed effectively as in the case of Dominica where a new site is to be
constructed in an area presently occupied by squatters. A total of US$1.02M was identified to address legal issues surrounding
the preparation of new sites for construction. This issue has not been addressed to date resulting in a delay in the construction
and development of the Stock Farm Site.
5.3        Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
Key performance indicators as outlined in the regional agreements were not prepared. This resulted in the inability to
effectively monitor the key elements of the project. The varying project management skills between the countries disallowed a
comprehensive effort to introduce these indicators as part of a scheduled evaluation process requirement. Limited financial
management effectiveness in some cases failed to capture the real costs for disposal and collection of wastes. As a result there
has to be a determination as to whether the existing system with new capital investments is really operating cost effectively.

5.4        Costs and Financing
Most of the countries had audited reports prepared on a timely basis receiving unqualified opinions of the auditors. Total
project cost at appraisal was US$50.5 of which US$41.0M was to be provided by the combined contributions of the World
Bank, the EU, the EIB and CDB. The remaining US$9.5M was to be provided by the participating OECS governments.

6.0        Sustainability
To date, evidence ( a detailed study of the cost recovery streams implemented by 4 SWMEs is being submitted under separate
cover) has shown that it is hardly likely that the SWMEs would be financially sustainable in the absence of the timely and
appropriate allocation of the funds recovered as part of the cost recovery mechanisms. The delays experienced are dictated by
the cash flow requirements of the respective Governments. A period of at least two (2) months has been identified as the
waiting time for revenues collected. In the case of Grenada that has demonstrated the highest level of success of the
mechanisms implemented, 49% (EC$8.3M) of total collections were outstanding over the period at December 31, 2002 in
respect of the levy on white goods including motor vehicles.

The revenues generated by the cost recovery measures implemented by the SWMEs are collected by three main agencies
including:
     (a) Customs and Immigration departments of Government
     (b) The Air and Sea Port Authorities, and
     (c) Utility Companies

In addition Contributions are made from the Government through the Treasury. These revenues are paid at source in cash and
in theory should be transferable to the Entities without delay. However, in reality this is not so. In addition, where revenues
are collected through departments of Government, the revenues are paid directly into the consolidated fund. There is no
collection cost related to this measure. In most cases, these funds are accounted for as Government revenue and then paid out as
contributions to the solid waste management entities. The delays experienced in receiving these funds are dictated by the cash
flow requirements of the respective Governments. Generally the entities have to wait for periods of at least 2 months and more
to receive the revenue collected.

There is naturally a build up of arrears with regards to payments of Levy collected. In Grenada, despite the success of the



                                                               - 73 -

measures implemented, the receivable in respect of the Levy on white goods including motor vehicles totaled EC$ 8,364,868 or
49% of total collections over the period at December 31, 2002. In St. Kitts, the situation with regard to the Levy collected from
marine visitors was over EC $ 1,500,000 in arrears at December 31, 2002.

The dependence therefore on collections through the consolidated funds of governments, poses a serious challenge to the
Entities as the availability of those funds is a function of the requirements of central government financing.

The collections from statutory Air and Sea Port Authority's generally attract a commission ranging from approximately 1.5% in
St.Vincent and the Grenadines to 5% in Grenada. In spite of the commission being paid there is still a delay in the transfer of
funds to the Entities for periods of up to 90 days.

The collections by the Utility companies also attract collection fees. In Grenada a flat fee of
$ 10,000 a year is charged by GRENLEC. In St.Vincent and the Grenadines, the commission paid is 20% of 75 cents per water
bill paid to designated collecting agencies. These agencies facilitate the payment of water bills on behalf of the Central Water
and Sewerage Authority. When the water bill is paid directly to the Authority no fee is charged. In the case of GRENLEC, the
total of monthly billings is not remitted to the Authority. Only a percentage, based on the amount paid in relation to the
monthly bill of the household is remitted. That is if a bill is paid up, then the full levy is paid. If not the comparative percentage
of the payment is remitted. This results in a build up of arrears. In addition, the collections from GRENLEC are paid one month
in arrears.

Since the arrangement in St.Vincent and the Grenadines is unique in that the Central Water and Sewerage Authority has
responsibility for the Solid Waste Management Unit, the benefit of excellent collections by the Authority, redounds to the
benefit of the Solid Waste Management Activities. Government contributions are received between one and two months of the
due date for payment. In St.Kitts and Nevis, the contributions for administrative salaries are paid on time.

To encourage the general public to take responsibility for their waste, some additional revenue measures have been
implemented by some of the SWMEs. Although not significant in their dollar quantum, they are measures geared towards
encouraging a pay for service attitude within the populace.

Some of the measures implemented were:
     (a)    Service fee of EC$ 10 for the first three items and EC$ 10 per item thereafter, for the collection of white goods in
            St.Vincent and the Grenadines.
     (b)    Fee for disposal of special waste, such as generated by the Medical Schools in St.Kitts.
     (c)    Sale of Bins in St.Kitts
     (d)    Rental of Equipment in Grenada.
     (e)    Return of 75% of Levy's on Returnable Bottles re-exported.

These fees are all paid directly to the SWME's.

The approach taken to cost recovery in the main has been the implementation of the environmental levy on stay over and
marine visitors supported by contributions from Government. Ideally, effective cost recovery measures should result in a shift
from dependence on one source of revenue, to independence with various sources of revenue linked to the services provided.
The environmental levy as a measure by itself is not sustainable as a key revenue source due to the fluctuations in visitor
arrivals. This measure has to be complemented by other measures. Measures such as the household levy implemented by
Grenada, St.Vincent and Nevis, and the Levy on white goods and motor vehicles effected in Grenada, point the way for
ensuring the sustainability of the measures.        The sustainability of cost recovery measures also require the support of
Governments, the public at large and effective management of the resources of the Entities.

The critical issues that impact on the sustainability of the SWMEs include:
     1.    Receipt of revenues collected on a timely basis.
     2.    Development of new revenue measures.
     3.    Efficient and effective management of Entity operations.
     4.    Budgets developed and tied in to actions considered under the five year strategic plans of the Authorities currently
           being developed, and
     5.    Effective liaison between the Entities, Government and other key Stakeholders.

Currently, budgets prepared are not linked to any specific goals, there are no cost recovery plans in place and the development
of strategic plans for the entities is only now being undertaken. With the exception of Grenada, the other SWME' are not yet
in a position to make allocations for future capital cost including the replacement of land fills. Allocations over the period have
been made by the Grenada Authority. Fixed deposits in excess of EC$ 2million have been put aside for the purpose of



                                                                 - 74 -

developing a new landfill and meeting other capital cost.

It is clear that a lot of work remains to be done to ensure the future sustainability of the cost recovery measures and the
SWME's. Work needs to be undertaken in:
     1.     Improving the receipt of revenues from collecting agencies, especially central government;
     2.     Defining and determination of cost and managing of these costs;
     3.     Strengthening the management of the Entities so as to be able to develop targeted work plans and budgets; and
     4.     Implementation of effective data collection and financial systems and timely reporting of information.

6.1        Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation
Firm institutional arrangements have been made by way of the formation of the SWMEs for the future operation of the
function. These entities have been established through the appropriate legal instruments and mandate with the required
organizational structure. While the sustainability of these entities remains questionable given the reasons discussed earlier,
substantial financial, commercial and institutional efforts and provisions have already gone into the implementation process. A
benefit of these efforts is that it provides the opportunity for strengthening on the earlier mechanisms and systems that emerged
on the project learning curve. Some of these efforts include the facilities for regional dialogue, the achievements of the various
public education and awareness initiatives, the development of waste management legislation and strategies and the
introduction of new infrastructure and equipment.

The countries need to pursue the completion of national policies, plans, programmes and strategies within an appropriate
collaborative structure so that the future of these systems would be governed by sound established principles. Collaborative
discussions between the participating countries have commenced regarding the development of a series of subcommittees
reporting to a network of SWMEs who in collaboration with relevant financial institutions and technical entities/professionals
would propose developed policies, plans, programmes and projects. The network of SWMEs would seek management and
coordinating roles from a relevant established regional institution that would also exercise advocacy to the OECS governing
bodies regarding these policies, plans, programmes and projects proposed by the network of SWMEs. Annex 4 is a Summary
of Conclusions from the meeting of Solid Waste Managers that was held in the ESDU Office on June 25th 2003.

Key performance indicators also need to be agreed upon and established so that the required monitoring and evaluation
practices could be adopted. Some of the indicators should include:

     ·     Total cost of waste management system
     ·     Total revenues
     ·     Working Ratio (indicate briefly how this is derived)
     ·     Operating Ratio (indicate briefly how this is derived)
     ·     Cost per tonne for disposal and collection of both shore and marine generated wastes,
     ·     Administrative cost as a percent of annual recurrent cost
     ·     Human Resource cost as a percent of annual recurrent cost.
     ·     Revenues from cost recovery mechanisms as a percent of total revenues
     ·     Government subvention as a percent of total revenues
     ·     Incidence of unregulated dumping
     ·     Incidence of surging waste containers
     ·     Time and motion study data at scheduled intervals per year
     ·     Incidence of disposal of untreated biomedical and hazardous waste

It is critical that the national institutions for regulating and monitoring of these entities be established to ensure effective
control and compliance. The Ministries of Health and the Ministry of Physical Development in one case should build their
capacity to undertake this function so that the operations of the technical systems of the SWMEs could be regulated within
established environmental standards. The SWMEs have also developed some TORs for the Caribbean Environmental Health
Institute (CEHI) to establish a regional database of the aforementioned performance indicators. These are attached as Annex 5

Financial institutions may continue to play a role in financial monitoring by way of future impact evaluations of the cost
mechanisms relative to the sustainability of the SWMEs. This role should bring an independent view to the evaluation in
addition to maintaining a relationship with the operating entities in the various countries. Project identification, appraisal and
recommendation as they relate to system improvements could also be easily facilitated.

7.0        Bank and Borrower's Performance

7.1        Bank



                                                                - 75 -

7.1.1     Lending
It was felt that more consultation should have been done prior to the development of the project. While the appraisal team
interacted with the technocrats at the Ministries and at other Governmental institutions, more public consultation should have
preceded the development of some of the components. Issues surrounding public perceptions and concerns could have been
appropriately addressed with solutions that were in direct response to such perceptions and concerns. These consultations
would also have better facilitated the establishment of priority items that would have led to the outline of a project critical path
regarding the implementation.

There is also the feeling that there were insufficient consultations on the 2 reports that became the basis of the SAR. The
general consensus is that had the Reports been properly vented, then many of the design flaws in the Project would have been
eliminated.

7.1.2     Supervision
Closer and regular supervision by the Bank was evident in that the recommendations of the Supervision Missions have
remained consistent with the understanding of the Borrower and have been implemented as agreed. Unfortunately, in the
period between 1996 and 2000 the supervision did not appear to have also recognised the various challenges experienced by
the countries; this recognition would have provided an opportunity to respond to requests and enquiries from the Borrower in a
timely and coordinated manner. Some of these challenges included details on the request for replenishments or reimbursements
and the mechanisms or procedures for recovering those deductions. An orientation workshop addressing all the Bank
procedures and utilizing the appropriate manuals should have been conducted once the Finance Officers of the SWMEs were
recruited. Both the General Managers of the SWMEs and the Finance Officers should have been jointly exposed to the details
of the procedures. This would have resulted in a common understanding among the SWMEs on the requirements of the Bank.

Project implementation delays were also evident where the Task Manager was engaged on another mission, and in the absence
of other informed procurement and disbursement officers, key project activities that influenced the implementation process
were put on hold until his or her return. It must, however, be acknowledged that the Borrower was able to communicate
directly with the procurement and disbursement departments.

Co-financiers should have collaborated on definition of conditions precedent, reporting formats and requirements, and should
have made greater efforts to undertake joint supervision missions.

7.1.3     Overall Bank Performance
Given the challenges faced by the Borrower, and also the weak assumption by the Bank of the level of understanding of the
Bank's procedures by the Borrower, overall performance is rated as satisfactory.

7.2       Borrower
7.2.1     Preparation
The Borrower should have experienced a more substantial process of orientation prior to the implementation process. More
attention should have been given to the screening and recruitment of staff for the PIUs so that the required priority and human
resource skills would have facilitated a smoother understanding of the project, including project management skills, and how it
related to the Bank's expectations.

A development of waste management skills had to be acquired during the process of implementation since the response to the
findings of the training needs assessment were effected after many of the project components were already implemented. On
the job training facilitated an understanding of what was to be new concepts and practices and provided an opportunity for
self-determination of more specific needs by each country.

7.2.2     Government Implementation Performance
Many of the Governments responded very favourably to the project initiation. This was evident by the fact that implementation
began taking place within one (1) year of the appraisal mission. This was also evident by steps taken to generally facilitate the
implementation of several of the non-engineering components such as legislation for the establishment of the SWMEs and
operation of the systems, and the level of implementation of the recommended cost recovery mechanisms.

7.2.3     Implementing Agency
The Project was implemented at the national level and the regional level. At the regional level, Project Implementation can be
divided into two phases. During the first phase, a Project Management Unit (PMU) was specifically set up, in the OECS
Secretariat, to implement the Project. The Manager of the PMU reported to the Director General, through the Director of
Functional Cooperation. There were a number of difficulties with this implementation arrangement:
     o    Although the PMU was located in the Division of Functional Cooperation and the Manager reported to the Director of




                                                              - 76 -

          Functional Cooperation, the line of communications were not clearly defined and there were times when the Project
          manager reported directly to the Director General. There were also no clearly defined lines of communication
          between the OECS Secretariat and the World Bank.
     o    The PMU was understaffed and was not equipped to handle the stringent administrative procedures required by the
          Project; neither were the administrative procedures of the OECS Secretariat sufficiently strengthened to comply with
          World Bank procedures.
     o    The skills required of the Project Manager were too broad and extensive to be found in a single individual.

The second phase of the Project was implemented through the OECS' Environment and Sustainability Development Unit
(ESDU), which was set up by the OECS Authority in 1986. By the time the Project was handed to ESDU for implementation
in 2001, the Unit had been in existence for 16 years and during that time had developed the necessary administrative and
financial procedures that were compliant with World Bank requirements. In addition, the Project was also able to benefit from
the extensive technical and administrative skills that were resident in the Unit. Furthermore, because the Unit is fully
incorporated into the organisational structure of the Secretariat, the appropriate Senior Management of the Secretariat
adequately supervises ESDU and all of the Unit's financial and administrative procedures that are regularly checked for
compliance with due diligence procedures.

As previously mentioned, national implementation was initially undertaken by Project Implementation Units (PIUs), which
became absorbed into the Solid Waste Management Entities. Antigua and Barbuda was the only country in which the PIU
remained separate from the Authority and existed until the Project Completion Date. In the case of St. Vincent and the
Grenadines, the SWME became a Unit with the Water and Sewage Authority.

7.2.4     Overall Borrower Performance
Given the uniqueness of the industry with its new concepts and practices, and the fairly ambitious targets of the project,
substantial efforts and resources had to be committed by the stakeholders of the Borrowing states. The performance should be
rated as satisfactory as the capacity to successfully address a project of this magnitude were either limited or non-existent at the
time of commencement, on a national and even a regional level.

An evaluation of the OECS Solid and Ship-generated Waste Management Project was undertaken through the conduct of focus
group discussions (FGDs) in all of the beneficiary countries The purpose of this survey was to ascertain public opinion on the
project, and its performance, in each of these countries. Participating in the FGDs was a wide range of stakeholders, including
representatives of Ministries of Health, Agriculture, Tourism, departments responsible for the environment, local and central
government, youth groups, the private sector represented by i.e. the Chamber of Commerce, farmers, private contractors,
SWME management as well as urban and rural residents and school children. The opinion of these participants was sought on
varying aspects of the project and the activities carried out under the project.

Few respondents knew of the project under which the SWMEs were formed. Neither was much known about the
ship-generated waste aspect of the project, the legislation necessitated for the conduct of the SWMEs' activities, nor of the
environmental levies. Nevertheless, all knew of the SWMEs and their activities in the management of solid waste, feeling that
they were under-resourced, financially, materially and humanly and that the SWMEs should proactively pursue
revenue-generating activities including aggressive collection of environmental levies.

Respondents in all of the countries hailed the establishment of the SWMEs. Respondents unanimously approved the efforts of
the SWMEs in vastly improving the collection of household waste, and consequently the appearance of the neighbourhoods.
They cited the aggressive promotion of householders' responsibility for their waste, i.e. securing it and putting it out in time for
collection which was now regular and reliable, the provision of bins and the improved attitude of garbage collectors, as the
main factors influencing this change for the better. The SWMEs , with the exception of Dominica whose landfill has not yet
been commissioned, received kudos for the operation of the sanitary landfills. Participants reported the absence of stench and
flies from the landfills, even claiming that some landfills were attractive to visit. Waste minimisation i.e. recycling, re-using
and reduction had not been universally and actively promoted.

In addition to these tributes, participants expressed concern about some areas. There was universal dissatisfaction with the
enforcement of health and environmental legislation, although the laws do exist, and in some countries, have been revised and
updated. Litter wardens have been appointed and trained, complemented by police officers who are ex officio litter wardens.
However, few of the appointed wardens appear to be effectual in enforcing the law and the police officers seem unaware that
their function includes policing infractions against the environmental laws, including the Litter Act, thus permitting violators to
operate at will. Altogether, respondents felt that a combination of vigorous and targeted public education, reinforced by obvious
swift and certain punishment of violators, would effect the necessary change in attitudes of all nationals towards a clean
environment.




                                                               - 77 -

Despite the several clean-up campaigns and beautification programmes initiated by the SWMEs and/or community and civic
groups, there was still a need to instill national pride as littering continued, especially by persons throwing cans and other
garbage from moving vehicles. This was further exacerbated by the private hauling of construction rubble and other waste in
open, uncovered vehicles and the general attitude of the public that the responsibility for managing waste rested solely with the
public health or solid waste authorities, and that individuals were absolved of any personal responsibility. Indeed, it was
mentioned in several of the OECS countries that some members of the public held the view that if they did not litter, there
would be no work for the sanitation workers and further, that by virtue of the payment of any charges for sanitation, they were
entitled to litter.

There were also reports of problems with vagrants and drug-addicts rifling bins and garbage bags for bottles, food or other
useful items and strewing garbage in their quest. Stray animals, (donkeys, pigs and dogs) continue to be pests at some landfills
and occasionally when householders do not secure their garbage before collection.

Altogether, respondents expressed their wish to see more efforts to increase public awareness of the need to protect their
environment by taking personal responsibility for the disposal of their waste, by not dumping or littering and even ensuring that
others do the same. This, they felt, could be best achieved through closer collaboration and coordination with other agencies
involved in aspects of solid waste management.

8.0       Lessons Learned
The findings of the appraisal mission had reinforced what was already identified as a clear need for the improvement of solid
waste management in the OECS. While the implementation process had faced several challenges already identified, it resulted
in an experience that would inform the development of other similar projects, and the opportunity to structure a model for
similar territories. The lessons learnt can be broadly grouped as follows:

8.1       Project Preparation and Appraisal
     § EngageallstakeholdersintheprojectconceptualizationandpreparationincludingtheprivatesectorandNGOsand
          not just the public sector. A good project should be able to uphold public interest and support by reflecting a direct
          link between stakeholder needs and the proposed deliverables. Design parameters should provide adequate and
          appropriate incentives for private sector participation in the system.
     § Pre-projectdesignstudiesandevaluationsmustbeundertakenbypersons/firmswhoarenotonlycompetentinthe
          technical content but who are also aware and sensitive to local nuances and local socio-cultural and political realities;
     § Foraregionalcomponenttobesuccessfullydemanddriven,ithastoprovideassistancewhichistailoredtothe
          specific needs of each national component;
     § Ademanddrivenregionalcomponentmustbedesignedtobeflexibleandtorespondtonationalcomponentsina
          timely and efficient manner.

8.2       Project Implementation/Supervision/Dialogue
Project implementation has to be very proactive, engaging both the Bank and the Borrower in continuous dialogue. From these
practices the following lessons could be drawn:
     § TherelationshipbetweentheBorrowerandtheBankmustbecultivatedandmaintainedthroughoutthelifeofthe
          project so that the relationship is one of mutual trust and of partnership.
     § DuringthesecondphaseoftheProject,ESDUensuredthattheregionalcomponentwasdesignedtobedemand
          driven and to react to the specific needs of each of the SWMEs. This was a difficult task to achieve in the first phase
          because the regional component had specific objectives and budget schedules that it had to meet, and which were
          often not congruent with the objectives and schedules of the national components.
     § ESDUensuredthattheskillsforprocurementwereresidentwithintheUnit,therebyguaranteeingthatprocurement
          was undertaken in a timely manner and in collaboration with the Bank;
     § Iftheregionalcomponentisdesignedtobedemanddriventhen,thiscomponenthastoensurethatthereareregular
          meetings with the national components and that the national components are involved in all aspects of project design
          and implementation at the regional level;
     § Theregionalcomponentmustfunctionasafacilitatorandcoordinatorandnotasamonitorofthenational
          components;
     § TheTaskManagermustbecognisantof,andrespectBankGuidelinesandProcedures.
     § TheBankmustundertaketoensurethattheBorrowerisfullytrainedinallaspectsofBankproceduresand
          guidelines, and that the establishment of such procedures and guidelines are conditions precedent to project
          implementation.
     § TheBankmustprovideregularsupervisionandmustensurethattherecommendationsoftheSupervisionMissions
          are discussed with the Borrower and that the implementation of these recommendations is monitored.
     § TheremustberegularlinesofcommunicationsbetweentheBankandtheBorrower;



                                                               - 78 -

      § TheBankmustprovidetimelyresponsestorequestsfromtheBorrower;
      § TheBorrowershouldbeabletocommunicatedirectlywiththeprocurementanddisbursementdepartmentsinthe
           Bank;
      § TheassignedLoansOfficerintheBankmustbewillingtoworkcloselyandbewillingtoprovideassistancetothe
           Borrower in a timely and friendly manner; and
      § DeductionstorequestsforReplenishmentsorReimbursementsmustbecommunicatedclearlytotheBorrowerwho
           must also be advised as to how those deductions can be recovered.

8.3        Public Awareness
Some of the factors which have been responsible for the initial successes of the public awareness and education component of
the programme were as follows:

      1.   A small but dedicated core of staff which recognised their pioneering role and fully understood the issues and the
           impact of waste management on other aspects of economic and social development.
      2.   Excellent formal and informal working relationships between the schools and the public awareness and education
           officer of the SWMEs.
      3.   A sympathetic mass media environment particularly the privately owned media. This translated into the extensive
           free time and space in the media, cooperative reporting of waste management issues.
      4.   Sustainable partnerships with the private sector, illustrated by the tremendous financial and non-financial support for
           public awareness activities such as clean-up campaigns, demonstration projects in schools and information products
           including, posters, brochures and videos.
      5.   Successful implementation of regular waste collection programmes.


The Specific Lessons Learned :
Clean-Up Campaigns: The SWMEs provided logistic, promotional and in some cases financial support for the clean-up
campaigns, which became regular community and national events. Clean-up campaigns increased awareness of the issues of
littering and waste disposal. They also facilitated the growth of stewardship for the communities and selected "public spaces".
Levels of enthusiasm and participation were much higher than increased awareness of the issues. Successful and sustainable
campaigns included information on compliance and law enforcement built into the messages. Waste reduction "demonstrations"
must be part of the clean-up campaign activities.

The regularity of waste collection has enhanced the credibility of the SWMEs and provided a platform for intensified public
awareness on waste reduction at the household level. The SWME must always be mindful of the public relations gains from all
awareness activities by ensuring that the logos and slogans are always used. A small amount of resources were allocated to
dissemination of information on waste collection and disposal. In cost benefit terms, the SWMEs must continue to ensure that
the communications functions/components of operations and public awareness are highly integrated.

Truck drivers in the awareness and education initiatives. Truck drivers and the staff of the waste haulage companies continue
to present potential vehicles for waste reduction. Given proper training and materials, as well as incentives they will enhance
overall awareness, education and public relations programme.

The schools programme. The success of the schools programme was based on the presence of three main factors. The first was
an extended team of volunteer participating teachers who were highly motivated and well informed. Secondly the development
of attractive education materials for students. Thirdly regular programmes which engage students as groups or classes with
aspects of creative competition and incentives. This formula should be fully replicated. The materials for students must be
produced in large quantities in order to have an impact on the entire school system.

In order for this part of the overall programme to be sustainable, the SWME should consider developing multi-media
self-instruction interactive teaching pack of waste reduction for children and teenagers, and also heads of households. The
production of these packs must be produced at a regional level, to benefit from economies of scale. Budgetary allocation must
be made for distribution.

Mass media usage. The use of mass media, particularly television was based on old patterns of media consumption, where
viewing of local television stations was high. Mass media usage by the SWMEs was based on the assumption that the
state-owned media would provide extensive free broadcast time for PSAs. In the region there has been a gradual corporatisation
of state-owned media, which are at best attempting to arrive at their own best practices and models of public service
broadcasting. The cost recovery principle has become an essential aspect of operations.

The rapid penetration of cable television in all communities has changed viewing patterns, where local stations are turned on



                                                                - 79 -

mainly for local news, which are "littered" with commercial advertising. PSAs on waste management during this time would be
highly priced and out of the reach of the It is recommended that SWMEs continue to produce their media material and make
available to all media houses.

8.4       Sustainability of SWMEs
The lessons learned from the issues highlighted in Section 6 above can be summarized as follows:
     § GoodrecordkeepingisessentialtothesuccessoftheactivitiesoftheSolidWasteManagemententities.
     § TimelycollectionofrevenuesiscrucialtothesurvivaloftheSolidWasteManagementEntities.
     § DataonthecostofservicesprovidedtotheGovernmentisessentialtojustifythecontributionsmade.
     § TheHouseholdlevyisagoodmechanismforgettinghouseholdstocontributetocostofcollectionanddisposalof
          waste.
     § Goodpublicrelationsinadditiontodemonstratedtangiblebenefitsareaneffectiveinducementforimplementationof
          Household Levy.
     § Newmechanismsforthecollectionofrevenuehavetobeexploredgiventhedifficultiesexperiencedwithcollections
          through the Government Coffers.
     § EffectivemanagementisessentialtothesuccessoftheSolidWasteManagementEntities.
     § Properplanning,reflectedbyeffectivebudgetsneedtobeimplemented.Thesebudgetsmustalsoincludeprovisions
          for the replacement of Capital Equipment.
     § GovernmentcommitmentiscriticaltothesustenanceoftheSolidWasteManagementActivities.
     § NewrevenuestreamshavetobedevelopedtosupporttheworkoftheSolidWasteManagementEntities.Thesecan
          only be determined when proper plans are in place for the Entities.

The main activity which can be identified as a best practice for Sustainability of the SWMEs is the privatization of the
collection and disposal of household waste as was the case in Grenada. This measure has reduced the need for maintaining a
large fleet of vehicles and equipment, thus alleviating the cost of maintenance. Maintenance is still a cost to the entity; it's a
question of who is responsible for carrying it out. It has also provided for better management and monitoring. This experience
was emulated in St.Lucia and has merit in the future management of solid waste activities.




                                                              - 80 -

Additional Annex 9. Detail of Project Outputs

Table 1: List of Civil Works Completed under the Project
Country           Sanitary             Closures                                        Comments
            Landfills/Managed         Completed
               Disposal Sites
                Constructed
A&B      1. Cook's Sanitary      1. Old Road           § Bothlandfillscompletedinearly2003,althoughnotyet
         Landfill (Antigua)      2. Freetown           commissioned due to unsettled claims from contractors that may
         2. Plantation Sanitary  3. River              require arbitration.
         Landfill (Barbuda)      4. Parabie            § CauseforadditionaldelaysincludednegotiationwithEIBfor
                                                       the supplemental loan and settling ownership rights over the old
                                                       Cook's dump site.
                                                       § ClosureofCook'sandPlantationsitestobecompletedafter
                                                       new landfills become operational.
                                                       § Closureofadditionalsitesdidnotrequireanyprojectfinancing.
DOM      1. No sanitary landfills No closures         §      After securing additional EU funding in 2002, construction of
         constructed              (Portsmouth and Fond Colet landfill to start in September 2003
         2. Melville Hall         Stock Farm sites §          Still using the Stock Farm site, which is over capacity and not
         Transfer Station         still in operation) adequately managed.
                                                      §      Melville Hall station completed but not operational, and the two
                                                      remaining transfer stations remain to be constructed (Portsmouth
                                                      underway; one additional site to be identified).
GRD      1. Dumfries Sanitary     1. Brunswick        §      Both new sanitary landfills completed.
         Landfill (Carriacou)     2. Telescope        §      Landslide at the new Perseverance sanitary landfill caused by
         2. Perseverance          3. Old              exceptional rainfalls in December 2000 filled the entire cell, resulting
         Sanitary Landfill        Perseverance (to in the suspension of operations.
         (Grenada)                be closed)          §      Old Perseverance site has been reactivated on an emergency
                                                      basis under controlled management until remediation work completed
                                                      on new landfill site.
SKN      1. Conaree Sanitary      1. Round Hole       §      Both new sanitary landfills completed in 2003 with significant
         Landfill (St. Kitts)     2. Indian Castle    delays due to negotiations with CDB over scope of the work and costs
         2. Low Ground                                for both new sites (agreement reached in early 2002). The final
         Sanitary Landfill                            agreement reduced the site acreage by half and the life expectancy
         (Nevis)                                      from 26 to 16 years.
                                                      §      Low Ground site completed but not in operation, as the Nevis
                                                      SWMA is waiting until the weighbridge is operational.
SLU      1. New Ciceron          1. Micoud            §      Best practice example for the region, with all closures
         Sanitary Landfill       2. Dennery           completed and both new landfills in operation.
         2. Upgraded Vieux       3. Anse La Raye      §      Delays suffered in reaching agreement with CDB due to higher
         Fort to managed         4. Choisel           construction costs than originally appraised (poorer soil than
         disposal site           5. Old Ciceron       anticipated in original design), with additional delays due to both the
                                                      failure of the contractor to perform on schedule and insufficient
                                                      monitoring by the supervision firm.
SVG      1. Diamond Sanitary      1. Arnos Vale        § DiamondSanitaryLandfillcompletedandcommissionedin
         Landfill                 2. Chili             September 2002.
         2. Wallilabou Sanitary   3. Old               § WallilabouSanitaryLandfillbeganconstructioninJune2003
         Landfill (under          Wallilabou           after delays in negotiating for additional funding from the CDB.
         construction)                                 § ArnosValewasupgradedtoamanageddisposalsiteandhas
         3. New managed                                been in operation since late 2000. It will remain in operation until
         disposal sites upgraded                       construction of Wallilabou landfill completed.
         in Canouan, Bequia
         and Union Island



                                                     - 81 -

Table 2: Goods Procured Under the Project
   Items Procured      Antigua and  Dominica   Grenad   St. Kitts and St. Lucia St. Vincent and
                        Barbuda                   a         Nevis               the Grenadines
     Waste Bins           2,000     1,000 (on   3,000       1,500      1,400         4,000
                                     order)
      Metal Bins            70         30         --         30           --          120
        Barge               1          1          1           2           --           --
 Compactor Vehicles         --         --         1           --          --        2 (5 yd³)
   Roll-on/off truck        --         --         --          2           --           --
 Refuse container bins      50                    --          --          --
  Refuse Collection         10         3          2           6           --           6
       Trucks
    Pick-up trucks          3          1          --          2           1            2
     Side loaders           1          2          --          --          --           --
      Skip Bins             --         70        20          24       8 (w/ bin        30
                                                                       slabs)
   Skip hoist trucks        --         2          1           --          --           2
     Hoist trucks           --         3          --          --          --           --
     Flatbed truck          1          --         --          2           --     1 (w/ crane)
     Tipper truck           --         1       2 (1 w/        --          --           --
                                               crane)
  Roll-off containers       --         20         --          --          --           --
                                    (ordered)
  Track-type tractor        --         1          1           1           1            2
    Track loaders           2          --         2           2           2            2
     Dump trucks            2          1          --          --          --           1
    Crawler tractor         1          --         --          --          1            --
     Car crushers           --         --         --          --          --           --
  Bin washer/wells          2          --         --          --          --           --
     Tire slicers      1 tire baler    1          --          --          2            --
    Weigh bridges           1          1       Landfill       2           2            --
                                                 CW
  Quick release forks       --         --         --          --          --           --
   Hazardous waste          1          --      Landfill       2           --           --
       storage                         --        CW                                    --
    Glass crushers          --         --         --          --          --           --
  Cover applicators         --         --         --          --          --           --
  Waste-oil storage         --         1       Landfill       2       60 drums         --
                                                 CW
    Wood chippers           --         1          --          --          2            2
  Refrigerated room         --         --         --          --          1            --
      Compactor             --         --         --          --          1            --
  Office equipment          X          X          --          X           X            X
       Other                --      1 forklift    --          --          1     1 wheeled mini
                                                                      autoclave     loader




                                               - 82 -

Table 3: List of Consultancies Undertaken through the Regional
Component of the Project

    A. Activities Undertaken through the PMU (April 1997-August 2000)                                        Date
Regional Waste Reduction, Recycling, Recovery and Reuse                                                    March 1999
Model Policy, Legislation and Regulations                                                                   June 1999
Training Needs Assessment and Programme Design                                                            October 1999
Technical Assistance on the Joint Procurement of Equipment

Grenada Wastewater Management Project                                                                    November 1999
Cost Effectiveness for Waste Collection and Disposal in Grenada

Institutional Arrangements for St. Vincent and the Grenadines

Development of Biomedical Waste Management Plans for Antigua and Barbuda, St. Kitts and Nevis,
and St. Lucia
Development and Execution of Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation Programmes and Waste               January 2000
Management Systems Monitoring and Evaluation
Review and Analysis of the PET and Glass Bottle Recycling Industry in Barbados and the Scope for           March 2000
Implementation of Similar Recycling Initiatives in the OECS


                  B.     Activities Undertaken through the OECS-NRMU and OECS-ESDU                            Date
                                           (July 2001-June 2003)
Short-term consultancy to provide assistance in the implementation of the project                    July 2001-August 2001
Services of a procurement consultant                                                                 July 2001-January 2002
Preparation of Solid Waste Management Legislation for St. Kitts and Nevis                           August 2001-October 2001
Audits of Regional Component of the Project                                                        August 2001-September 2002
Waste Characterization Training and Demonstration ­ Antigua and Barbuda                             September 2001-December
                                                                                                              2001
Assistance in Regional Roundtable and Development of Waste Diversion Action Plans                        September 2001
Programme Officer ­ OECS SSGWMP                                                                     September 2001-February
                                                                                                              2002
Preparation of Legislation for St. Vincent and the Grenadines; Antigua and Barbuda                  September 2001-April 2002
Preparation of legislation for the Commonwealth of Dominica                                         October 2001-January 2002
Preparation of Specifications for Biomedical Waste Management Equipment for St. Lucia               October 2001-January 2002
Development of a Biomedical Waste Management Plan for St. Vincent and the Grenadines               October 2001-December 2001
Solid Waste Management Consultant to OECS                                                           November 2001-February
                                                                                                              2002
Development and Delivery of a Master Composter Training Course for the OECS                         December 2001-February
                                                                                                              2002
Development of Preventative Maintenance Programs for Solid Waste Management Equipment for           December 2001-February
Grenada; St. Vincent and the Grenadines                                                                       2002
Development of Preventative Maintenance Programs for Solid Waste Management Equipment for           December 2001-February
Antigua and Barbuda; the Commonwealth of Dominica; St. Kitts and Nevis; St. Lucia                             2002
Development of a Biomedical Waste Management Plan for St. Vincent and the Grenadines                January 2002-March 2002
Development of a Biomedical Waste Management Plan for St. Kitts and Nevis; Grenada

Consultant Program Officer ­ Solid Waste Management, OECS-ESDU                                      December 2001-June 2003
Train the Trainer Workshop on Biomedical Waste Management for the OECS                                 June 2002-July 2002
The conduct of Waste Characterization Studies for the Commonwealth of Dominica; St. Kitts and Nevis July 2002-September 2002
Team Leader and Health Planning and Management Specialist on the assignment to Formulate             July 2002-October 2002
Proposals for the Strengthening of the Regulatory and Monitoring Capacities of the Environmental
Health Departments of all six OECS countries, excluding Antigua and Barbuda
Solid Waste Management Specialist on assignment for the above activity                               July 2002-October 2002
Environmental Health Specialist on assignment for the above activity                                 July 2002-October 2002
Development of an OECS Strategy on the Management of Used Oil                                       August 2002-October 2002
Development of a Marine Waste Management Information System                                         August 2002-October 2002
Preparation of National Solid Waste Inventory for Grenada, and National Solid Waste Management      December 2002-June 2003



                                                           - 83 -

Strategies for Grenada; St. Kitts and Nevis; St. Lucia; and St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Design and Delivery of a Solid Waste Management Training Program for the OECS                        January 2002-April 2003
Short ­term consultant (ICR Coordinator)                                                             February 2003-June 2003
Technical Assistance to OECS-ESDU and OECS SWMEs in the Preparation of Project Closing Reports       March 2003-June 2003
and the Evaluation of Solid Waste Management Collection and Disposal Activities under the Project
Team leader and Solid Waste Management Specialist on the Conduct of Public Opinion Research on the   March 2002-June 2003
Effectiveness of the Solid Waste Management Systems of the OECS countries
Survey Design and Data Management Specialist for the above activity                                  March 2003-June 2003
Evaluation of the Public Awareness and Education Component of the Project                            March 2003-June 2003
Evaluation of Cost Recovery Measures implemented by Selected Beneficiary Countries under the Project  April 2002-June 2003




                                                            - 84 -

Additional Annex 10. Detail of Project Financing per Country

I. Antigua and Barbuda
Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          Percentage of
          Component             Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Estimate      Appraisal
A. Reception facilities               0.62                  0.50               81

B. Storage and Collection             1.02                  1.35              132
System

C. Waste Treatment and                2.10                  4.71              224
Disposal

D. Disposal of Medical Waste          0.63                  0.00               0

E. Project Management and             0.07                  0.12              171
Institutional Support
Land, Taxes and Duties                1.47                  2.10              143
Contingencies                         1.15                  0.00               0
Total Project Costs                   7.06                  8.78              124
Total Financing Required              5.59                  6.68              119



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million
equivalent)

                                               Procurement Method  1/


 Expenditure Category      ICB         NCB           Other2/       N.B.F.     Total Cost

1. Goods                    1.3        0.00           0.1            3.0          4.4
                        (0.09 GEF)     (0.00)        (GEF)                    (1.0 GEF)

2. Consultants              0.1        0.00           0.00           0.3          0.4
                                       (0.00)        (0.00)
(a)Design/                  0.1                                                   0.1
Supervision               (GEF)                                                 (GEF)

3. Civil Works             0.00        0.00           0.02           2.0         2.22
                          (0.00)       (0.00)        (GEF)                    (0.02 GEF)
Total                       1.4        0.00           0.3            5.2          7.0
                        (1.0 GEF)      (0.00)        (GEF)                    (1.3 GEF)




                                               - 85 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                  Procurement Method       1/


     Expenditure Category                ICB         NCB             Other  2/          N.B.F.           Total Cost

1. Goods                                1.22          0.00             0.00              1.54               2.76
(GEF)                                   (1.22)                                                             (1.22)
2. Consultants
       (a)    Consultant                0.01          0.00             0.00              0.00               0.01
       services and studies             (0.01)                                                             (0.01)
       (GEF)                             0.00         0.00             0.00              3.49               3.49
       (b)    Design/
       Supervision
4. Civil Works                          0.003         0.00             0.00              0.42               0.423
(GEF)                                  (0.003)                                                             (0.003)
Total                                   1.23          0.00             0.00              5.45               6.68
(GEF)                                   (1.23)                                                             (1.23)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff, training,
technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.


Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                           Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
          Components                     Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate* Percentage of Appraisal
                                        GEF       GAB       CoF.        GEF     GAB        CoF      GEF       GAB         CoF
A. Reception facilities                 0.42      0.00       0.00       0.50     0.00      0.00      120        0            0

B. Storage and Collection               0.20      0.00       1.02       0.18     0.00      1.17       90        0          115
System

C. Waste Treatment and                  0.60      0.00       1.50       0.50     0.00      4.21       83        0          253
Disposal

D. Disposal of Medical                  0.00      0.00       0.63       0.00     0.00    0.00          0        0            0
Waste

E. Project Management and               0.07      0.00       0.07       0.05     0.00    0.07        109        0          100
Institutional Support
Land                                    0.05      0.24       0.00       0.00     0.80      0.00        0       333           0
Design and supervision                  0.05      0.00       0.32      0.003     0.00      0.00        6        0          131
Taxes and Duties                        0.00      1.35       0.00       0.00     1.30      0.00        0        96           0
Contingencies                           0.02      0.00       0.52       0.00     0.00      0.00        0        0            0
Total Project Costs                     1.41      1.59       4.06       1.23     2.10      5.45       87       132         134




                                                             - 86 -

II. Dominica

Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                        Percentage of
          Component           Appraisal Estimate        Actual           Appraisal
A. Reception facilities             0.45                  0.39              87

B. Storage and Collection           1.17                  1.20              99
System

C. Waste Treatment and              2.13                  3.54              158
Disposal

E. Project Management and           0.04                  0.06              150
Institutional Support

Land, Taxes and Duties              1.02                  0.00              ---
Contingencies                       1.34                  0.00              ---
Total Project Costs                 6.15                  5.19              84
Total Financing Required            5.13                  5.19              101



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million
equivalent)
                                             Procurement Method  1/


 Expenditure Category     ICB         NCB          Other2/        N.B.F.    Total Cost

1. Goods                  1.8          0.00         0.4            1.2          3.4
(IDA/IBRD)                (0.3)                    (0.3)                       (0.6)
(GEF)                     (0.6)                    (0.1)                       (0.7)
2. Consultants            0.2          0.00         0.1            0.3         0.06

(a)Design/
Supervision
 (IDA/IBRD)               (0.1)                    (0.1)                       (0.2)
 (GEF)                    (0.1)                                                (0.1)
3. Civil Works            0.00         0.00        0.04            1.7          2.1
(IBRD/IDA)                                         (0.04)                     (0.04)
Total                     2.0          0.00         0.9            3.2          6.1
(IDA/IBRD)                (0.4)                    (0.8)                       (1.2)
(GEF)                     (0.7)                    (0.1)                       (0.8)




                                             - 87 -

          Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                        Procurement Method       1/


           Expenditure Category               ICB            NCB               Other  2/          N.B.F.           Total Cost

          1. Goods                            0.61           0.00                0.24              1.08                2.08
          (IDA/IBRD)                                                            (0.24)                                (0.39)
          (GEF)                             (0.61)                                                                    (0.61)
          2. Consultants                      0.02           0.01                                  0.18                0.21

                    (a)      Design/
                    Supervision
                    (IDA/IBRD)              (0.01)          (0.01)               0.00              0.00               (0.01)
                         (GEF)              (0.01)                                                                    (0.02)
          3. Civil Works                      0.00           0.00                0.22              2.83                2.93
          (GEF)                                             (0.00)                                                    (0.07)
          (IDA/IBRD)                                                            (0.22)
          Total                               0.63           0.01                0.46              4.09                5.19
          (IDA/IBRD)                        (0.01)          (0.01)              (0.46)                                (0.48)
          (GEF)                             (0.62)                                                                    (0.62)
          1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank. All costs include contingencies.
          2/ Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff, training,
          technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.


          Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

Components                              Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate*              Percentage of Appraisal
                                          WB       GEF       GD     CoF.     WB       GEF          GD    CoF       WB       GEF       GD    CoF
                                          and                                and                                   and
                                          CDB                                CDB                                   CDB
A. Reception facilities                   0.00     0.45      0.00   0.00     0.00     0.39      0.00     0.00       0       87        0     0

B. Storage and Collection System          1.17     0.00      0.00   0.00     0.12     0.00      0.00     0.00      100      0         0     0
                                                                             1.03
C. Waste Treatment and Disposal           0.64     0.25      0.00   1.24      0.29    0.23      0.00     2.61      75       88        0     134
                                                                             0.46
E. Project Management and                 0.04     RC        0.00   0.00     0.06     RC        0.00     0.00      75       --        0     0
Institutional Support

Land, Taxes and Duties                    0.00     0.00      1.02   0.00       0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      ----               ---   ---

Contingencies                             0.51     0.15      0.00   0.68     0.00   0.00        0.00     0.00      ----               ---   ---

Total Project Costs                       2.36     0.85      1.02   1.92     1.96     0.62      0.00     2.61      83        73       ---   136




                                                                       - 88 -

III. Grenada

Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                          Percentage of
          Component             Appraisal Estimate        Actual            Appraisal
A. Reception facilities               0.44                 0.45                102

B. Storage and Collection             1.26                 0.55                44
System

C. Waste Treatment and                2.22                 4.89                220
Disposal

E. Project Management and             0.07                 0.00                00
Institutional Support**




F. Grenada Dove                       0.20                 0.23                115
Land, Taxes and Duties                1.75                 1.94                111
Contingencies                         1.05                 0.82                78
Total Project Cost                    6.99                 8.85                127
Base Cost                             5.24                 6.12                117



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million
equivalent)

                                                             Procurement Method1/


         Expenditure Category            ICB         NCB         Other 2/      N.B.F.    Total Cost

1. Goods                                  1.2        0.00          0.2           2.5        3.9
(GEF)                                    (0.9)       (0.00)        (0.2)                   (1.1)
2. Consultants                            0.1        0.00          0.00          0.4        0.5

(a)Design/     (GEF) Supervision        (0.1)                                              (0.1)

3. Civil Works                           0.00        0.00          0.00          2.4        2.4
Total                                     1.3        0.00          0.2           5.3        6.8
(GEF)                                   (1.0)                      (0.2)                   (1.2)




                                               - 89 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                             Procurement Method        1/


          Expenditure Category                   ICB             NCB               Other  2/           N.B.F.           Total Cost

      1. Goods                                  0.98              0.00              0.13                 0.75               1.86
            (GEF)                              (0.98)                               (0.13)                                 (1.11)
 2. Consultants                                 0.00              0.00              0.50                 0.00               0.50

 (a)Design/ (GEF) Supervision
                                                                                    (0.50)                                 (0.50)
 3. Civil Works                                 0.00              0.00              0.07                 3.69               3.76
 (GEF)                                                                              (0.07)                                 (0.07)
 Total                                          0.97              0.00              0.69                 4.44               6.12
 (GEF)                                         (0.97)                               (0.19)                                 (1.18)



1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff, training,
technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.


Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

              Components                    Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate*             Percentage of Appraisal
                                     GEF    CDB           GG      EIB      GEF    CDB            GG  y   EIB    GEF      CDB       GG      EIB

A. Reception facilities             0.44      0.00       0.00     0.00     0.38     0.00       0.26      0.00    86        0        0       0

B. Storage and Collection System    0.00      0.00       0.00     1.26     0.00     0.00       0.41      0.55     0        0        0      44

C. Waste Treatment and Disposal
                                    0.57      1.37       0.00     0.28     0.62     4.25       0.84      0.00   109       310       0       0
E. Project Management and
Institutional Support
                                    RC        0.00       0.00     0.07      RC      0.00       0.00      0.00    ---       0        0       0
F. Grenada Dove

                                    0.20      0.00       0.00     0.00    0.20     0.03x       0.43      0.00   100        0        0       0

Land, Taxes and Duties              0.00      0.00       1.75     0.00    ---   ----            ----      ---- ----   ----        1.75     ----
Contingencies                       0.18      0.33       0.00     0.54    ---   ----            ----      ---- ----   ----         ----    ----
Total Project Costs                 1.39       1.7       1.75     2.15    1.20  4.28           1.94      0.55  86      252         100     26




                                                              - 90 -

IV. St. Kitts and Nevis

Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                        Percentage of
          Component           Appraisal Estimate         Actual          Appraisal
A. Reception facilities             0.48                  0.63              131

B. Storage and Collection           0.98                  1.35              137
System

C. Waste Treatment and              2.10                  6.33              302
Disposal

D. Medical Waste Treatment          0.59                 0.03                5
and Disposal

E. Project Management and           0.07                  0.07              100
Institutional Support
Land, Taxes and Duties              1.58                  ---               ---
Contingencies                       1.08                  0.00               0
Total Project Costs                 6.88                  8.41              122
Total Financing Required            5.30                  8.41              159



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million
equivalent)

                                               Procurement Method 1/


  Expenditure Category     ICB       NCB           Other2/       N.B.F.     Total Cost

1. Civil Works            0.00       0.00            0.2            1.7         1.9
                          (0.00)     (0.00)        (0.2)                       (0.2)
2. Consultants             0.2       0.00            0.1            0.2         0.5
                                     (0.00)
(a) Design/    (IBRD)     (0.1)                    (0.1)                       (0.2)
Supervision    (IDA)      (0.1)                                                (0.1)
3. Equipment               3.3       0.00            0.4            0.7         4.4
(IBRD)                    (1.4)      (0.00)         (0.3)                      (1.7)
(IDA)                     (1.0)                    (0.1)                       (1.1)
Total                      3.5       0.00            0.7            2.6         6.8
(IBRD)                    (1.5)                    (0.6)                       (2.1)
(IDA)                     (1.1)                    (0.1)                       (1.2)




                                             - 91 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                Procurement Method         1/


   Expenditure Category              ICB            NCB              Other   2/            N.B.F.         Total Cost

 1. Civil Works                      0.00           0.00               0.00                 5.82              5.82
 (IBRD)
 (GEF)
 2. Consultants                      0.00           0.00               0.04                 0.00              0.04

 (a) Design/          (IBRD)                                          (0.03)                                 (0.03)
 Supervision          (IDA)                                           (0.01)                                 (0.01)
 3. Goods                            2.55           0.00               0.00                 0.00              2.55
 (IBRD)                             (1.55)                                                                   (1.55)
 (IDA)                              (1.00)                                                                   (1.00)
 Total                               2.55           0.00               0.04                 5.82              8.41
 (IBRD)                             (1.55)                            (0.03)                                 (1.58)
 (IDA)                              (1.00)                            (0.01)                                 (1.01)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff, training,
technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.


Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

              Components                  Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate*           Percentage of Appraisal
                                      WB     GEF        GAB    CoF.      WB    GEF             GDR   CoF   WB      GEF       GDR      CoF
A. Reception facilities             0.00     0.48       0.00    0.00    0.12     0.51        0.00    0.00    --     106        0       0

B. Storage and Collection System    0.98     0.00       0.00    0.00    1.35     0.00        0.00    0.00  139       0         0       0

C. Waste Treatment and Disposal     0.00     0.57       0.00    1.53    0.01     0.50        0.00    5.82    0      88         0      380

D. Medical Waste Treatment and      0.59     0.00       0.00    0.00     0.03    0.00        0.00    0.00    5       0         0       0
Disposal

E. Project Management and           0.07     RC       0.00      0.00    0.07      RC         0.00    0.00  100      --         0       0
Institutional Support
Land, Taxes and Duties                0.00     0.00     1.58    0.00   0.00   0.00           0.00    0.00  ---   ---         0.00     ---
Contingencies                         0.49     0.87     0.00    0.38   ---    ---            0.00      --- ---   ---           --     ---
Total Project Costs                   2.13     1.92     1.58    1.91   1.58   1.01           0.00    5.82  74     53         0.00     380




                                                             - 92 -

V. St. Lucia
Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                          Percentage of
           Component           Appraisal Estimate        Actual             Appraisal
A. Reception facilities              0.20                  0.16                 80

B. Storage and Collection            1.83                  0.04                 2
System

C. Waste Treatment and               3.00                  8.34                278
Disposal

D. Disposal of Medical Waste         0.60                  0.60                100

E. Project Management and
Institutional Support                0.07                  0.02                 29

Land, Taxes and Duties               1.73                  0.26                 15
Contingencies                        1.98                  0.00                 ---
Total Project Costs                  9.41                  9.42                100
Total Financing Required             7.68                  9.16                119


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)

                                              Procurement Method  1/


Expenditure Category      ICB         NCB           Other2/       N.B.F.       Total Cost

1. Goods                   5.7        0.00           0.3            0.00           6.0
(IDA/IBRD)                (3.8)                     (0.2)                         (4.0)
(GEF)                     (1.0)                     (0.1)                         (1.1)
2. Services                0.4        0.00           0.1            0.3            0.8

         (a)    Design/
         Supervision
    (IDA/IBRD)            (0.3)                     (0.1)                         (0.4)
    (GEF)                 (0.1)                                                   (0.1)
3. Civil Works            0.00        0.00           0.2            2.3            2.5
(IDA/IBRD)                                          (0.2)
Total                      6.1        0.00           0.6            2.6            9.3




                                              - 93 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                         Procurement Method            1/


 Expenditure Category                    ICB                NCB                 Other    2/             N.B.F.                Total Cost

1. Goods                                 2.31                0.02                 0.09                   0.00                      2.42
(IDA/IBRD)                              (1.47)              (0.02)               (0.02)                                          (1.51)
(GEF)                                   (0.84)                                   (0.07)                                          (0.91)
2. Consultants                           0.28               0.00                  0.09                   0.00                      0.37

            (a)        Design/
            Supervision
           (IDA/IBRD)                   (0.21)                                   (0.09)                                          (0.30)
           (GEF)                        (0.07)                                                                                   (0.07)
3. Civil Works                           1.99               0.04                  0.00                   4.34                      6.17
(IDA/IBRD)                              (1.99)                                                                                   (1.99)
(GEF)                                                       (0.04)                                                               (0.04)
Total                                    4.54               0.06                  0.16                   4.34                      9.16
(IDA/IBRD)                              (3.67)              (0.02)               (0.11)                                            (3.8)
(GEF)                                   (0.91)              (0.04)               (0.07)                                          (1.02)

1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff, training, technical assistance
services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

              Components                         Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate*                      Percentage of Appraisal
                                           WB      GEF      GD       CoF.      WB GEF               GD         CoF         WB        GEF         GD      CoF

A. Reception facilities                   0.00       0.20   0.00      0.00     0.00    0.16       0.00         0.00          0        80           0      0

B. Storage and Collection System          1.83       0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00    0.04       0.00         0.00          0        0            0      0

C. Waste Treatment and Disposal
                                          1.16       0.46   0.00      1.50     3.18    0.82       0.00         4.34        274       178           0     289
D. Disposal of Medical Waste

E. Project Management and                 0.60       0.00   0.00      0.00     0.60    0.00       0.00         0.00        100        --           0      0
Institutional Support

                                          0.07       RC     0.00      0.00     0.02     RC        0.00         0.00         29        0            0      0

Land, Taxes and Duties                      --        --    1.73       --      ---     ---        0.26          ---             ----              ---     ---
Contingencies                              0.9       0.50    --       0.46       ---    ---        ---          ---             ----              15      ---
Total Project Costs                       4.56       1.16   1.73      1.96     3.80  1.02         0.26     4.34            83      88             15    221




                                                                        - 94 -

VI. St. Vincent and the Grenadines

Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                         Percentage of
          Component            Appraisal Estimate        Actual           Appraisal
A. Reception facilities              0.46                  0.18              39

B. Storage and Collection            1.75                  3.40              194
System

C. Waste Treatment and               3.31                  4.14              125
Disposal

E. Project Management and            0.07                  0.06        86
Institutional Support

Land, Taxes and Duties, and          1.98                1.23                68
Contingencies
Total Project Costs                  7.57                  9.01              119
Total Financing Required             7.57                  7.78              103



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million
equivalent)

                                              Procurement Method  1/


 Expenditure Category     ICB         NCB           Other2/       N.B.F.     Total Cost

    1. Goods               4.9        0.00           0.3            0.00         5.2
    (IDA/IBRD)            (3.0)                     (0.2)                       (3.2)
      GET                 (0.9)                     (0.1)                       (1.0)
2. Consultants             0.4        0.00           0.1            0.3          0.8

         -      Design/
         Supervision
    (IDA/IBRD)            (0.3)                     (0.1)                       (0.4)
    (GEF)                 (0.1)                                                 (0.1)
    2. Civil Works        0.00        0.00           0.1            2.5          2.6
         (IDA/IBRD)                                 (0.1)                       (0.1)


Total                      5.3        0.00           0.5            2.8          8.6
(IDA/IBRD)                (3.3)                     (0.4)                       (3.7)
(GEF)                     (1.0)                     (0.1)                       (1.1)




                                              - 95 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                                                                 Procurement Method                                 1/


   Expenditure Category                                         ICB                           NCB                               Other         2/                      N.B.F.                          Total Cost

 1. Goods                                                      2.22                            0.42                                 0.00                                0.00                                 2.64
 (IDA/IBRD)                                                  (1.26)                          (0.42)                              (0.00)                                                                    (1.68)
       (GET)                                                 (0.96)                                                                                                                                     (0.96)

 2. Consultants

                   -                Design/                    0.04                            0.00                                 0.00                                2.25                                 2.29
                   Supervision
         (IDA/IBRD)                                          (0.04)                          (0.00)                              (0.00)
         (GEF)                                               (0.00)

 3. Civil Works                                                0.00                            0.00                                 0.09                                3.99                                 4.08
 (IDA/IBRD)                                                  (0.00)                          (0.00)                              (0.05)
                                                                                                                                 (0.04)
 Total                                                         2.26                            0.42                                 0.09                                6.24                                 9.01
 (IDA/IBRD)                                                  (1.30)                          (0.42)                              (0.05)                                                                    (1.77)
 (GEF)                                                       (0.96)                                                              (0.04)                                                                      (1.0)


1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank. All costs include contingencies.


2/ Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.


Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                      Components                                                 Appraisal Estimate                                                 Actual/Latest Estimate*                                         Percentage of Appraisal
                                                                     WB            GEF               CDB             GVG                WB          GEF                      CDB            GVG               WB              GEF   CDB    GVG

A. Reception facilities                                             0.00              0.46           0.00             0.00             0.09              0.09              0.00              0.00               0             1.95    0     0

B. Storage and Collection System                                    1.75              0.00           0.00             0.00             1.69              0.67              0.00              1.04              .92               0    0     0

C. Waste Treatment and Disposal
                                                                    1.32              0.41           1.34             0.00             0.00              0.18               3.5              0.47               0              .44   2.61   0
E. Project Management and
Institutional Support
                                                                    0.07                             0.00             0.00             0.00              0.06              0.00              0.00               0                0    0     0

Land, Taxes and Duties, and                                         0.49              0.34           0.55             1.98                    0           0                  0               1.23               0              0      0    0.62
Contingencies
Total Project Costs                                                 3.63              1.21           1.89             1.98                1.78           1.00               3.5              2.74               0.0         .82      1.85  1.41




                                                                                                                - 96 -

VII. Regional Component

Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                                                   Percentage of
                  Component                       Appraisal Estimate             Actual              Appraisal
 A. Model Legislation                                       0.3                   0.33                   110

 B. Recycling/Compost                                      0.45                   0.51                   113

 C. Training                                                0.2                   0.09                   45

 D. Marine Waste Documentation                             0.05                   0.03                   60

 E. Workshops                                              0.15                   0.07                   47

 F. Model Environmental Education                          0.25                   0.23                   92

 G. Evaluation and Monitoring                              0.28                   0.24                   86

 H. Project Management Unit                                1.51                   2.06                   136

 I. Sewerage and Water                                     2.00                   0.98                   49
 Total Project Costs                                       5.18                   4.54                   88
 Total Financing Required                                  5.18                   4.54                   88


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million
equivalent)

                                                              Procurement Method       1/


 Expenditure Category               ICB            NCB               Other  2/          N.B.F.           Total Cost

 1. Consultants                     0.00            0.00               5.18              0.00                5.18
     (GEF)                                                            (5.18)                                (5.18)




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                              Procurement Method       1/


 Expenditure Category               ICB            NCB               Other  2/          N.B.F.           Total Cost

 2. Consultants                                                        4.38                                  4.38
     (GEF)                                                            (4.38)                                (4.38)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff, training,
technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.



                                                             - 97 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

              Components                Appraisal        Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                         Estimate         Estimate*     Appraisal
                  Activity                   GEF              GEF           GEF
A. Model Legislation                        0.3             0.33             110

B. Recycling/Compost                        0.45            0.51             113

C. Training                                 0.2             0.09              45

D. Marine Waste Documentation               0.05            0.03              60

E. Workshops                                0.15            0.07              47

F. Model Environmental Education            0.25            0.23              92

G. Evaluation and Monitoring                0.28            0.24              86

H. Project Management Unit                  1.51            2.06             136

I. Sewerage and Water                       2.00            0.98              49
Total Project Costs                         5.18            4.54              88




                                              - 98 -

Additional Annex 11. MAP




                            - 99 -

- 100 -

