Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2715 SV
                        Development Credit Agreement
                      (Solid Waste Management Project)
                                   between
                       ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated May 11, 1995
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2715 SV
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated May 11, 1995, between ST. VINCENT AND THE
GRENADINES (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
    WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project;
    (B)   the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
one million eight hundred ten thousand dollars ($1,810,000)
(the Loan);
    (C)   the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in
this Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in
respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Loan are made;
Page  2
    (D)    by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower (the Recipient) and the Bank as Trustee (the Trustee)
of funds provided by the GET (the GET Grant Agreement), the
Trustee has agreed to make available to the Recipient funds
(the GET Grant), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
GET Grant Agreement, to assist in the financing of the project
(the National Project) described in the Regional GET Grant
Agreement;
    (E)   by an agreement of even date herewith the Recipient
together with Antigua and Barbuda, Commonwealth of Dominica,
Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Lucia (together the
Regional Recipients) have contracted, from the Trustee, a grant
from the GET (the Regional GET Grant) to assist in the
financing of the project (the Regional Project) described in
the agreement (the Regional GET Grant Agreement) entered into
among the Regional Recipients and the Trustee;
    (F)   the Regional Recipients have entered into an agreement
with OECS (the Regional Agreement), of even date herewith, to
regulate the assistance of OECS in the carrying out of the
National Project and of the Regional Project; and
    (G)   the Recipient intends to contract from the Caribbean
Development Bank (the CDB) a loan (the CDB Loan) in an amount
equivalent to approximately $1,890,000 to assist in the
financing of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (the CDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Recipient and CDB;
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the GET
Grant Agreement, in the Regional GET Grant Agreement and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth or referred to, the term "Loan Agreement" means the
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes the "General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated
January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
    (a)   "Monitoring Indicators" means the set of monitoring
indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to the Regional GET Grant
Agreement; and
    (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
Page  3
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one million three hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,300,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
    Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
    (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
    (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1
commencing July 1, 2005 and ending January 1, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January
1, 2015 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
    (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
Page  4
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
    (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) carry out Parts A.1
through A.7 of the Project through the PIU with the assistance,
with respect to Parts A.4 through A.6 of the Project, of the
Borrower's Port Authority; and (ii) carry out Part B of the
Project, pursuant to the Regional GET Grant Agreement, all with
assistance of the OECS, pursuant to the Regional Agreement, and
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, technical, managerial and
engineering practices and with due regard to ecological and
environmental factors, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of the Project;
    (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
    (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Association's comments thereon.
Page  5
    Section 3.04. Without limitation to Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   not later than three months after the Effective Date,
and every three months thereafter until the completion of the
Project, furnish to the Association and the Bank, through the
PMU, quarterly reports on the progress in the execution of
civil works and procurement of equipment during the previous
three months, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association and the Bank shall reasonably request; and
    (b)   not later than twelve months after the Effective Date,
and every twelve months thereafter until the completion of the
Project, furnish to the Association and the Bank, through the
PMU, annual reports on the progress in the execution of the
Project during the previous year and a program for the
execution of the Project during the next succeeding year, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association and the Bank
shall reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Association;
          (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                but in any case not later than three months after
                the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                such scope and in such detail as the Association
                shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                information concerning said records,
                accounts and the audit thereof as the
                Association shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                Association has received the audit report for the
                fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
Page  6
                examine such records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Association
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   any of the Regional Recipients or OECS shall have
failed to perform any of their obligations under the Regional
Agreement;
    (b)   the Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the GET Grant Agreement or the Regional GET
Grant Agreement or the Loan Agreement;
    (c)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)     the right of the Recipient to withdraw the
                        proceeds of the GET Grant or of the
                        Regional GET Grant or of the CDB Loan shall
                        have been suspended, canceled or terminated
                        in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
                        of the CDB Loan Agreement; or
                (B)     the CDB Loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
          (ii)  subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                suspension, cancellation, termination or
                prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                the CDB Loan Agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                for the Project are available to the Borrower
                from other sources on terms and conditions
                consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                under this Agreement.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
CDB Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
Page  7
    (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement, of the GEF Grant Agreement and of the Regional
GEF Grant Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
    Section 6.02. The date August 9, 1995 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Administrative Center
          Bay Street
          Kingstown, St. Vincent, WI
                                                Telex:
                                                  7531 Foreign V.Q
    For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                        Telex:
                INDEVAS                           248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.                   82987 (FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in Kingston, Jamaica, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
                        By /s/ James F. Mitchell
                                                   Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
                                              Acting Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
          Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
Page  8
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan,
the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount        Amount
                           of the        of the
                           Credit         Loan         % of
                          Allocated     Allocated    Expendi-
                         (Expressed    (Expressed      tures
                           in SDR       in Dollar      to be
      Category           Equivalent)   Equivalent)   Financed
(1) Civil works               60,000       77,000      100%
(2) Goods                  1,100,000    1,591,000      100%
(3) Consultants'             140,000      142,000      100%
    services
                            _________   _________
          TOTAL             1,300,000   1,810,000
                            =========   =========
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
    (a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed
SDR 130,000 may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after a date one year before
the date of this Agreement; and
    (b)   expenditures under Part B of the Project.
3.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for goods, works under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent and for consultants' services under
contracts not exceeding $25,000 equivalent, under such terms
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to reduce public health
risks and protect the environmental integrity of the Borrower's
territory and its coastal and marine systems, by improving the
Borrower's solid waste management facilities and facilitating
compliance with the MARPOL 73/78 Convention, supporting the
Borrower's efforts to: (a) improve the coverage and
effectiveness of the collection, treatment and disposal of
solid waste; (b) reduce pollution of international and
territorial waters caused by ship-generated solid wastes; (c)
establish an appropriate legal and institutional framework for
the management and disposal of ship-generated waste and solid
waste; (d) design plans and programs to improve collection,
treatment and disposal of liquid waste; and (e) identify
regional opportunities for recycling of solid waste.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   National Component
1.   Development of the Borrower's policies and regulations
on solid waste management, including legislation governing the
Page  9
operation of landfills; establishment and operation of an
entity (the Solid Waste Management Entity) for purposes of
implementing, monitoring and enforcing such policies and
regulations; and establishment and operation of a Project
implementation Unit (the PIU).
2.   Establishment of new sanitary landfill sites or
improvement of dump sites to upgrade them to sanitary disposal
facilities, including environmental mitigation measures.
3.   Construction of storage facilities for domestically
generated waste.
4.   Improvement of the solid waste collection and
transportation systems.
5.   Improvement of port reception facilities for ship- and
yacht-generated waste (under Annex V of MARPOL 73/78
Convention).
6.   Establishment of handling and transportation systems
for ship-generated waste.
7.   Support waste recovery and recycling activities.
Part B:   Regional Component
1.   Support Project implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
2.   Development of a legal and institutional framework for
the management waste, applicable to the Eastern Caribbean
Region.
3.   Development of recycling opportunities for solid waste
in the Eastern Caribbean Region and of waste reduction
programs.
4.   Increase public support for waste management in the
Eastern Caribbean Region, through the provision of training and
education, and implementation of public awareness campaigns.
5.   Preparation of plans and programs for the improvement
of the Regional Recipients' sewerage and sewage treatment
systems.
                                    * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:    International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
     (a)    When contract award is delayed beyond the original
bid validity period, such period may be extended once, subject
to and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of
the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to
complete the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and
clearances and award the contract. The bid validity period may
be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment
of the bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for
Page  10
the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase of
the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Association's and the Bank's prior review in accordance with
the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the Association's
and the Bank's prior approval will be required for: (i) a first
extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension
exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of
the bid validity period.
     (b)    In the procurement of goods in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank with such modifications
thereto as the Association and the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association and the Bank.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
Regional Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$100,000 per contract may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised in the
Caribbean Region, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association and the Bank.
International Shopping
2.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$50,000 per contract and works estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $100,000 per contract may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from at least three suppliers from at
least two different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and
the Bank.
Part C:   Review by the Association and the Bank of Procurement
          Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
     (a)    With respect to each contract to be awarded
pursuant to the provisions of Part A of this Section, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association and the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association and the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association and the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals
from the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of
Page  11
statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ, and shall cause OECS to
employ, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ,
and shall cause OECS to employ, such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association and the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Association and the Bank.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring
prior Association and Bank review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $25,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$25,000 equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior
Association and Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms
of reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association and the Bank; (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $25,000 equivalent or above; or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $25,000 equivalent or
above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                               Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
     (b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement; and
     (c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $100,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
or the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly
Page  12
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
     (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
               requests for deposits into the Special Account
               at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
               documents and other evidence required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
               payments in respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such request,
               the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
               withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan
               Account and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been paid out of the Special
               Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account or the Loan Account under the respective
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement or from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions applicable thereto; or
     (b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to
the Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
     (c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions
of Section 6.02 of the applicable General Conditions; or
     (d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the
Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
Page  13
entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the respective General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
     Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the
Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association or the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
     (b)    If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund to the Association or the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association or the Bank all or any portion of the
funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)    Refunds to the Association or the Bank made
pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule
shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as
the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation
in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development
Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement, including the General
Conditions applicable 1 thereto.
