Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3881 SLU
                               Loan Agreement
                      (Solid Waste Management Project)
                                   between
                                  ST. LUCIA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Dated May 11, 1995
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3881 SLU
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated May 11, 1995, between ST. LUCIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and
the International Development Association (the Association) of
even date herewith (the Development Credit Agreement), has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
    (B)   the Borrower has also requested the Association to
provide additional financial assistance towards the financing
of the Project and by the Development Credit Agreement the
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to one million, six
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,600,000) (the
Credit);
    (C)   the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit be disbursed on
account of expenditures in respect of the Project before
disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in this
Agreement are made;
Page  2
    (D)   by an agreement of even date herewith  between the
Borrower (the Recipient) and the Bank as Trustee (the Trustee)
of funds provided by the GET (the GET Grant Agreement), the
Trustee has agreed to make available to the Recipient funds
(the GET Grant), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
GET Grant Agreement, to assist in the financing of the project
(the National Project) described in the Regional GET Grant
Agreement;
    (E)   by an agreement of even date herewith the Borrower
together with Antigua and Barbuda, Commonwealth of Dominica,
Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Vincent and the
Grenadines (together the Regional Recipients) have contracted,
from the Trustee, a grant from the GET (the Regional GET Grant)
to assist in the financing of the project (the Regional
Project) described in the agreement (the Regional GET Grant
Agreement) entered into among the Regional Recipients and the
Trustee;
    (F)   the Regional Recipients have entered into an agreement
with OECS (the Regional Agreement), of even date herewith, to
regulate the assistance of OECS in the carrying out of the
National Project and of the Regional Project; and
    (G)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Caribbean
Development Bank (the CDB) a loan (the CDB Loan) in an amount
equivalent to $1,960,000 to assist in the financing of the
Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the CDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and CDB;
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
    under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
    of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the GET
Grant Agreement, in the Regional GET Grant Agreement and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth or referred to and the term "Development Credit
Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Association for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
Page  3
                                  The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of two million two hundred
eighty thousand dollars ($2,280,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to the Development Credit Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
          (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
         (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                the second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
Page  4
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section,
Sections 2.02 (b), 3.01, 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05 and 4.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5
thereto are incorporated in the Loan Agreement, with the
following modifications in said Sections and Schedules 2, 3, 4
and 5 unless the context otherwise requires:
          (i)   the term "Association" shall be read as "Bank";
          (ii)  the term "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be
                read as "Loan" and "Loan Account"; and
         (iii)  the term "this Agreement" shall be read as
                "the Development Credit Agreement".
    (b)   So long as any part of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and
unless the Borrower has been notified otherwise by the Bank:
          (i)   all actions taken, including approvals given, by
                the Association pursuant to any of the Sections
                of, and Schedules to, the Development Credit
                Agreement enumerated in paragraph (a) of this
                Section, as well as pursuant to Section 2.02 (a)
                of the Development Credit Agreement, shall be
                deemed to be taken or given in the name and on
                behalf of both the Association and the Bank; and
          (ii)  all information or documentation furnished by the
                Borrower to the Association pursuant to the
                provisions of any of such Sections of the
                Development Credit Agreement or Schedules thereto
                shall be deemed to be furnished to both the
                Association and the Bank.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                            Remedies of the Bank
    Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified,
namely, the events set out in Section 5.01 of the Development
Credit Agreement, provided, however, that the term
Page  5
"Association" wherever it appears in such Section shall be read
as "Bank".
    Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified,
namely, the events set out in Section 5.02  of the Development
Credit Agreement.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Effective Date; Termination
    Section 5.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other
than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
    Section 5.02. The date August 9, 1995 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
    Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates
prior to the termination of this Agreement, the provisions of
the Development Credit Agreement referred to in this Agreement
shall continue in full force and effect between the Borrower
and the Bank.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Government Building
          Castries, St. Lucia, WI
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                   248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in Kingston, Jamaica, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        ST. LUCIA
Page  6
                        By /s/ Jacinta St. Helene
                                                   Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
                                              Acting Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                            Amortization Schedule
                                                 Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
    On each January 1 and July 1
          beginning January 1, 2001
                through January 1, 2010                 115,000
                and on July 1, 2010                      95,000
_____________________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed
                                    as a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan
                                    on the day of prepayment
                                    multiplied by:
Not more than three years                     0.20
    before maturity
Page  7
More than three years but                     0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                       0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                    0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity
More than 13 years before                     1.00
    maturity
