Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3882 SC
                               Loan Agreement
                      (Solid Waste Management Project)
                                   between
                             ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Dated May 11, 1995
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3882 SC
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated May 11, 1995, between ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
    (B)   by an agreement of even date herewith  between the
Borrower (the Recipient) and the Bank as Trustee (the Trustee)
of funds provided by the GET (the GET Grant Agreement), the
Trustee has agreed to make available to the Recipient funds
(the GET Grant), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
GET Grant Agreement, to assist in the financing of the project
(the National Project) described in the Regional GET Grant
Agreement;
    (C)   by an agreement of even date herewith the Recipient
Page  2
together with Antigua and Barbuda, Commonwealth of Dominica,
Grenada, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines
(together the Regional Recipients) have contracted, from the
Trustee, a grant from the GET (the Regional GET Grant) to
assist in the financing of the project (the Regional Project)
described in the agreement (the Regional GET Grant Agreement)
entered into among the Regional Recipients and the Trustee;
    (D)   the Regional Recipients have entered into an agreement
with OECS (the Regional Agreement), of even date herewith, to
regulate the assistance of OECS in the carrying out of the
National Project and of the Regional Project;
    (E)   the Borrower intends to contract from Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB) a loan (the CDB Loan) in an amount
equivalent to approximately $1,910,000 to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the CDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and CDB; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
    under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
    of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the GET
Grant Agreement, in the Regional GET Grant Agreement and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth or referred to and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
    (a)   "Monitoring Indicators" means the set of monitoring
indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to the Regional GET Grant
Agreement; and
    (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of two million one hundred
thirty thousand dollars ($2,130,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Page  3
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in East
Caribbean Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
          (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
         (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                the second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
Page  4
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) carry out Parts A.1
thorough A.8 of the Project through the PIU with the
assistance,  with respect to Parts A.4 through A.6 of the
Project, of the Borrower's Port Authority; and (ii) carry out
Part B of the Project pursuant to the Regional GET Grant
Agreement, all with assistance of the OECS, pursuant to the
Regional Agreement, and with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, technical,
managerial and engineering practices and with due regard to
ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
    (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
    (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon.
    Section 3.04. Without limitation to Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   not later than three months after the Effective Date,
and every three months thereafter until the completion of the
Project, furnish to the Bank, through the PMU, quarterly
reports on the progress in the execution of civil works and
procurement of equipment during the previous three months, of
Page  5
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
    (b)   not later than twelve months after the Effective Date,
and every twelve months thereafter until the completion of the
Project, furnish to the Bank, through the PMU, annual reports
on the progress in the execution of Project during the previous
twelve months and a program for the execution of the Project
during the next succeeding twelve months, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than three months after the
                end of each such year, the report of such audit
                by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records and accounts and
                the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
         (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                examine such records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Page  6
                                  ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:
    (a)   any of the Regional Recipients or OECS shall have
failed to perform any of their obligations under the Regional
Agreement;
    (b)   the Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the GET Grant Agreement or the Regional GET
Grant Agreement;
    (c)   (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)     the right of the Recipient to withdraw the
                        proceeds of the CDB Loan shall have been
                        suspended, canceled or terminated in whole
                        or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                        CDB Loan Agreement; or
                (B)     the CDB Loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof;
          (ii)  subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                suspension, cancellation, termination or
                prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                the CDB Loan Agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                for the Project are available to the Borrower
                from other sources on terms and conditions
                consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                under this Agreement.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
CDB Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
    (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
GEF Grant Agreement and of the Regional GEF Grant Agreement
shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
    Section 6.02. The date August 9, 1995 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
Page  7
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Government Headquarters
          Church Street
          Basseterre, St. Kitts, WI
                                          Telex:
                                          6820 SKB
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in Kingston, Jamaica, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
                        By /s/ Wendell Lawrence
                                                   Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
                                              Acting Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated              % of
Page  8
                              (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Works                            250,000         100%
(2) Goods                          1,700,000         100%
(3) Consultants'                     180,000         100%
    services
                                   _________
          TOTAL                    2,130,000
                                   =========
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
     (a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed
$200,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after a date one year before
the date of this Agreement;
     (b) expenditures for Part A.8 of the Project, unless
the Borrower shall have made arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, to cause the relevant hospitals to operate and maintain
the equipment provided under such Part of the Project; and
     (c) expenditures under Part B of the Project.
3.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for goods and works under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent and for consultants' services under
contracts not exceeding $ 25,000 equivalent, under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to reduce public
health risks and protect the environmental integrity of the
Borrower and its coastal and marine systems, by improving the
Borrower's solid waste management facilities and facilitating
compliance with the MARPOL 73/78 Convention, supporting the
Borrower's efforts to: (i) improving the coverage and
effectiveness of the collection, treatment and disposal of
solid waste; (ii) reduce pollution of international and
territorial waters caused by ship-generated solid wastes; (iii)
establish an appropriate legal and institutional framework for
the management and disposal of ship-generated waste and solid
waste; (iv) design plans and programs to improve collection,
treatment and disposal of liquid waste; and (v) identify
regional opportunities for recycling of solid waste.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: National Component
1.   Development of the Recipient's policies and regulations
on solid waste management, including legislation governing the
operation of landfills, establishment and operation of an
entity (the Solid Waste Management Entity) for purposes of
implementing, monitoring and enforcing such policies and
regulations, and establishment and operation of a Project
implementation unit (the PIU).
2.   Establishment of new sanitary landfill sites or
Page  9
improvement of dump sites to upgrade them to sanitary disposal
facilities, including environmental mitigation measures.
3.   Construction of storage facilities for domestically
generated waste.
4.   Improvement of the solid waste collection and
transportation systems.
5.   Improvement of port reception facilities for ship- and
yacht-generated waste (under Annex V of MARPOL 73/78
Convention).
6.   Establishment of handling and transportation systems
for ship-generated waste.
7.   Support waste recovery and recycling activities.
8.   Provision of adequate equipment for the management of
hospital generated waste.
Part B:   Regional Component
1.   Support the Project implementation, monitoring and
evaluation.
2.   Development of a legal and institutional framework for
the management waste, applicable to the Caribbean Region.
3.   Development of recycling opportunities for solid waste
in the Caribbean Region and of waste reduction programs.
4.   Increase public support for waste management in the
Caribbean Region, through the provision of training and
education, and implementation of public awareness campaigns.
5.   Preparation of plans and programs for the improvement
of the Regional Recipients' sewerage and sewage treatment
systems.
                                    * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                               Payment of Principal
          Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
          On each January 1 and July 1
          beginning January 1, 2001
          through January 1, 2010                     105,000
          and on July 1, 2010                         135,000
Page  10
_____________________________
*         The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
          determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.
          See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
          Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed
                                    as a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on
                                    the day of prepayment
                                    multiplied by:
Not more than three years                         0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                         0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                           0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                        0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity
More than 13 years before                         1.00
    maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
      (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
Page  11
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this
Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for: (i) a
first extension of the bid validity period if the period of
extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding
documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
Regional Competitive Bidding
1.  Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised in the Caribbean
Region, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
International Shopping
2.  Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000
per contract and works estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $100,000 per contract may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from at least three suppliers from at least two
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to
the provisions of Part A of this Section, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Page  12
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ, and shall cause OECS to
employ, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ, and shall cause OECS to
employ, such consultants under contracts using the standard
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use, and shall cause OECS to
use, other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $25,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$25,000 equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $25,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $25,000 equivalent or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $170,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
Page  13
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  14
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
