RETURN TC|
REPORTS DESK
WITHIN              CIRCULATING COPY               RESTRICTED
ONE     WEE        BE R RND TO ARCHIVE DMIV             Report No.  TO-563a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PHASOM DAM PROJECT
THAILAND
March 23, 1967
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US $1. 00         =  20. 80 Bahts (1f)
ffi 1             =  US $0. 0481
1^ 1, 000, 000    =  US $48, 077
AREA EQUIVALENTS - METRIC SYSTEM
1 Hectare (ha. )  =  2.47 acres
1 Hectare         =  6.25 rai



THAIIAID
PHASOM DAII PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUtiIARY .................ii
INTRODUCTION. . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   o .    1
BACKGROUND. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
THE PROJECT AREA. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . *  . .      3
General,                     .                      .       3
Present Status of Cultivation. . . . . . . . . . . . .
Land Tenure. . . . . . . . . . ..... .                       5
Transportation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       5
Agricultural Production.o. .. . .a . . . .   . .a . . . .    6
THE PROJECT * * * * * * * * * * * * * * a * *. a   * * .  * .a    6
Proposed Works .... a    * a e.g...... so .... a...... ....   6
Status of Engineering. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       8
Construction Cost Estimates. .. . . .. . .. . . . .          9
Construction Equipment and Supplies. . . . . o . . . .       9
Financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
WIATER SUPPLY A1N1D REQUIREIENTS .  .  . . . .  .  .  . .  . ..  10
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPIENT.   . . . . . .. .. .     . . . . . .    11
ORGANIZATIONAND'ANAGENET .. ... ...           .. .  ..... .. o o .  13
Construction .o. . . . * * . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .     13
Studies and Reports. .   . . . . . . . . . . . .a. .*.  .   14
BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION. .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
CONCLUSIONS AND RECO1I0ENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
This report was prepared by Messrs. Bartsch, Sicely and Golan,
and is based on findings of several missions which visited
Thailand in 1965 and 1966.



ANNEES
1.   Rice Taxes and Export Price of Rice
2.   Proposed Construction Schedule
3.   Description of Works
4.   Estimate of Costs
5.   Equipment and Supplies for Construction
6.   Estimated Production Costs for Rice
7.   Possible Alternative Patterns of Agricultural Develop-
ment Utilizing Water from Bhumiphol and Phasom
Reser-voirs
8. Rate of Agricultural Development and Net Returns
MAPS
Phasom Dam Project



THAILAMD
PHASOM DAM PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of Thailand has requested a Bark loan to
assist in financing the construction of the Phasom Dam on the Nan
River in northern Thailand. The dam is located approximately 60
kilometers upstream of Uttaradit where the river leaves the mountains.
ii.       The proposed project is the fourth phase in the develop-
ment of the Central Plain of Thailand, having been preceded by the
construction of the Chainat Dam with a system of main canals, the
Bhumiphol Dam and the ditches and dikes project, all of which pro-
vide for the improvement of the agriculture and irrigation facilities
of the Central Plain, and all of which have been assisted by loans
from the Bank. The project would permit the storage of the monsoon
flood flows of the Nan River, which could ultimately be used during
the dry season for the irrigation of approxi-mately 380,000 hectares
of land for the production of a second crop of agricultural pro-
ducts where in general only one crop is now being grown annually,
and a dependable irrigation supply for 100,000 hectares of wet
season cropping in the Nan River Valley.
si;.      The estimated expenditure necessary to construct the Phasom
Dam, including costs of construction, purchase of equipment and
consulting services, would be approximately 0 1,582 million (US$
76.2 million), of which US$ 30.5 million would be in foreign exchange
and includes interest during construction. The proposed Bank loan
of US$ 10 million would cover approximately 38 percent of the foreign
exchange cost, except interest during construction, and woald be
about 13 percent of the total estimated cost. Design and supervision
of construction of the project would be the responsibility of con-
sultants employed by the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) of the
Ministry of National Development. The main dam of the project would
be constructed by contractors selected through international
competitive bidding procedures. Most other works,, such as the
saddle dams, roads and camp construction, would be performed by
force account by the RID and with the assistance and advice of the
consultants. In addition to the construction work, studies would
be conducted, leading to two reports, one for an irrigation project
in the Nan River Valley, to be completed by the end of .1969, and
another for the intensification of second cropping in the Chao Phya
area, to be completed by the end of September 1969.
iv.       Preliminary studies of a proposed power installation at
the Phasom Dam show that the addition of power facilities would
improve the economic returns from the project. Further studies
would be made to determine the best timing for installation and the
optimum capacity of power generating facilities. The studies would
be completed by the end of 1967.



- ii -
V.        The RID would be responsible for the operation and maintern-
ance of the project.
vi.       The benefits from the project would be attained primarily
through second cropping, during the dry season, of lands which lie
downstream from the dam site. Justification of the project there-
fore depends upon the rate at which farmers can be induced to change
their normal pattern of single crop cultivation. For optimum
development of second cropping, the Government of Thailand would
have to greatly expand its program of agricultural extension services,
fertilizers, improved seeds, pesticides, credit and marketing.
vii.      At full development, a measure of the economic benefits of
the project in the Chao Phya area is an increase in the annual net
value of production at farm prices of US$ 11.6 million. Tax
collections in the form of Rice Premium and Export Taxes on all rice
produced would amount to US$ 13.0 million, thus the annual incremen-
tal net value would be about US$ 24.6 million. At this level, the
average annual net return from second crop irrigation of rice in the
Chao Phya area alone would range between 6 and 10 percent, depending
on the assumed rate of second crop development. When the benefits
from a possible future project in the Nan River Valley area are
added, tl-e economic returns increase considerably to between 11 and
14 percent. Even higher returns would result if second crops of
higher value other than rice are grown and if the power benefits
are taken into consideration.
viii.     The shortage of data on land resources, the problems of
intensifying agricultural production and the necessity to make a num-
ber of broad judgments as to costs, crop yields, market potentials
and rates of agricultural development have made the project dif-
ficult to appraise. However, the past satisfactory performance of
RID on similar projects and the traditional orientation of the
Thai farmer to irrigated agriculture are favorable elements.
Furthermore, on minimum (and in fact unrealistic) assumptions, the
economic return would not be less than 6 percent, even without taking
into account the added benefits which could be expected to accrue
from the irrigation of the Nan River Valley, the growing of more
valuable crops than rice, power generation, flood control and salinity
control. All have been factors in reaching a conclusion that the
project is one which could be expected to be successful and helpful
to the economny of Thailand.
ix.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 10 million.
The borrower would be the Kingdom of Thailand and an appropriate
term wauld be 20 years, including a grace period of 6 years.



THAILAND
PHASOM DAM PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Thailand has submitted a request for a Bank
loan to assist in financing the construction of the Phasom Dam and
saddle dams on the Nan River.   The project would provide for the stor-
age of flood waters to be used for supplemental irrigation during the
dry season on lands of the Central Plain of Thailand.   The project
would permit the production of a second annual crop on approximately
180,000 hectares of land in the Chao Phya area and approximately
200,000 hectares in the Nan River Valley, lying downstream from the dam.
It would also provide a dependable irrigation supply for 400,000 hectares
of wet season cropping in the Nan River Valley.
1.02      This report is based on material and project reports prepared
and supplied by the Royal Irrigation Department of Thailand and their
consultants, Engineering Consultants Inc., on a study of the power
potentials made by the Yanhee Electricity Authority, on the findings of
several missions which visited Thailand during late 1965 and in 1966.
The report was prepared by Messrs. Bartsch, Sicely and Golan.
2. BACKGROUND
2.01      Rice production in Thailand during the 1961/65 period increased,
on an adjusted basis making allowance for weather conditions, at about
three percent annually, compared with 1.5 percent in the previous five
years.   Increased acreage was insignificant during the entire period
and the rapid expansion in production can be directly attributed to
better water control, improved seed and, to some extent, to increased
use of fertilizers.   Consumption on the other hand has risen at about
2.5 percent annually during the past decade, or at a slightly slower
rate than population growth.   Currently, Thailand produces an average
of about 6.8 million tons of rice annually, of which 1.8 million tons
are exported.   It is expected that, within 10 to 20 years, all suitable
land will be in production and at the present yield would be incapable
of maintaining the existing level of exports because of the increase in
food requirements for the rapdily expanding population.   Were it not for
the Chao Phya and Yanhee Projects, financed previously by the Bank,
Thailand would be without rice for export by the mid-1970's.   The con-
struction of these projects, however, only postpones the critical time
to the mid-1980's.



- 2 -
2.02      Thailand has a water problem which is twofold in nature.
First, excess water falling during the rainy season from mid-May to
mid-November, should be controlled to prevent flooding and, secondly,
the flood waters should be retained in storage reservoirs for irriga-
tion during the dry season to permit second cropping of suitable lands.
2.03      The farmers of Thailand have traditionally used irrigation
techniques and, over the centuries, they have constructed a series of
canals, ditches, dikes and waterways throughout the Central Plain in
an effort to distribute the river water into a labyrinth of rice
paddies and channels.   In recent years, further improvements have been
made and the Bank has made several loans to assist in these phases of
development of the area.
2.04      The first of the recent phases in the control of waters in
the Central Plain was the construction of the Chainat diversion dam on
the Chao Phya River, and a system of main canals which was completed
in 1957, which provided a small amount of regulation on the river and
its tributaries, and permitted diversion of the river waters for
irrigation, flood control, navigation and hydroelectric power.   Part
of the finance for this development was provided by a Bank Loan (36-TH)
of US$ 18 million equivalent, and it started an overall program to
improve agriculture in the Central Plain and to use the large amount
of water which passes through the area.   The Central Plain is a
triangular shaped area of flat land with the apex at Chainat Dam and
the base along the northern coast of the Gulf of Thailand as shown on
the map.
2.05      The second phase of development, financed with a Bank Loan
(175-TH) of US$ 66 million equivalent, was the Yanhee Project which
provided for construction of the Bhumiphol (Yanhee) Dam on the Ping
River, the western-most tributary of the Chao Phya River.   Completed
in 1964, the dam is now providing hydroelectric power and water con-
trol, reducing the hazard from floods and permitting the storage of the
monsoon flows for use in the dry season.   It is estimated that up to
220,000 hectares of land in the Chao Phya area can be provided with
water from this reservoir during the dry season to permit intensifica-
tion of agricultural production on this highly productive area.
Approximately 50,000 hectares of land has been growing perennial and
second crops which are now being irrigated with Yanhee reservoir water.
It is expected that the annual increase of such irrigation would range
from 11,000 to 22,000 hectares per year.
2.06      The third phase of development is the ditches and dikes pro-
ject which includes the construction of systems of dikes, canals,
laterals, drains and roads in the Chao Phya area.   It will permit the
development and irrigation of 800,000 hectares of land for more intensive
cultivation.   This work, assisted by a loan (328-TH) of US$ 5.6 million
equivalent from the Bank, was started in 1963 and is expected to be
completed at the end of 1970.



- 3 -
2.07      The project now proposed is intended to fulfill the fourth
phase of development for the Central Plain.    It calls for the con-
struction of the Phasom Dam and auxiliary works, including provisions
for a future power plant on the Nan River, the eastern-most tributary
of the Chao Phya River.   The dam-site is located approximately 60
kilometers upstream of Uttaradit, where the river leaves the mountains.
The four phases would control waters of the prinicipal rivers and per-
mit irrigation and intensification of agricultural production of sub-
stantial amounts of land in the Chao Phya area and in an area proposed
to be developed in the Nan River Valley.
3. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      Over half of Thailand's farm land is in the central and
north zones of the country, with about 85 percent of the area raising
a single crop of rice in the rainy season.    Fruit, vegetables and
some farm crops are grown on the remaining 15 percent.    There is
almost no second cropping, particularly of rice, because 90 percent
of the precipitation occurs in the wet season.
3.02      The shortage of precipitation in the dry season from mid-
November to mid-May prevents the raising of additional crops during
that period, except under irrigation.   Although the soils and climate
are suitable for crop growth the year round, irrigation is severely
restricted in the dry season by the low flows in the streams and by
lack of reservoirs for storing flood waters.
3.03      Four torrential rivers, the Ping, Wang, Yom and Nan, rise in
the high mountains of the north, descend through the north and
central sections of Thailand, flow through the low delta lands of the
Central Plain and empty into the Gulf of Thailand.    Soon after enter-
ing the Plain, the four rivers join to form the principal river of the
country, the Chao Phya.   This river flows for 77 kilometers in a
single course and then, as is typical of deltaic areas, braids into
several channels across the flood plain.   These reunite, after being
joined by lesser tributaries, and flow into the Gulf of Thailand.
3.04      The irrigable areas lie in the basins of the upper tributary
rivers and in the Central Plain, where the Chao Phya and several other
smaller projects are located.   Reconnaissance surveys of the land and
soil of the Plain show that there is a net irrigable area of approxi-
mately 1.2 million hectares.    The soils of this area are divided into
two general groups, the marine clay series which constitutes about 60
percent of the irrigable area, and those other than the marine clay
series.   Nearly all the marine clay series soils lie south of Ayutthaya
(midway down the Central Plain).   The marine clays are generally suit-
able only for rice; this is grown as a single crop in the wet season.



Other crops are grown on approximately 125,000 hectares of the marine
clays largely near Bangkok, where fruits, vegetables and general
crops are planted intermittently.   On such heavy soils, this requires
special farming techniques of modelling the surface into ditches,
drains, levees and mounds.   These methods of farming are expensive
and suitable only for high value crops and normally applicable only to
special marketing conditions similar to those found around the larger
cities.
3.o5      Of the 500,000 net irrigable hectares of non-marine clay
soils, all north of Ayutthaya, an estimated 50,000 hectares are con-
sidered best for'raising general crops the year round.    Although the
soils can also be used to grow rice, they are better suited for other
crops.   The remaining 450,000 hectares of land are more adapted to
rice in the wet season, followed by field crops in the dry season.
3.06      An inverted triangle of land north of Chainat and within the
points of the Chainat, Bhumiphol and Phasom Dams, known as the Upper
Delta, is potentially irrigable;  but the extent of the area and the
suitability of soils is only partly known.   The Upper Delta area con-
sists of the flood plains in the valleys of the Ping, Wang, Yom and
Nan Rivers before they join to form the Chao Phya River.
Present Status of Cultivation
3.07      In the Central Plain agriculture is comparatively highly
developed, due largely to the irrigation distribution systems con-
structed during the past fifty years.   The main crop is rice, which
occupies approximately 80 percent of the land during the flood season.
Half of the remaining 20 percent is planted to other crops, mainly
'foodgrains and oilseeds, and half to orchards and gardens.   Cropping
under irrigation in the dry season has been undertaken increasingly
since water stored by the Bhumiphol Dam became available, the area
devoted to second-crop rice, sugarcane and vegetables having doubled
to 27,000 hectares between 1964 and 1966, while fruit cultivation has
increased from 12pPO hectares to over 20,000 hectares in the same
period.   It is estimated that, for such cropping, the water from the
Bhumiphol Reservoir would provide water for up to 220,000 hectares of
land.
3.08      The agriculture of the Upper Delta depends almost entirely
upon the flooding of the rivers and tributary streams in the rainy
season.   There is a very small amount of irrigation development which,
in some cases, permits dry season cropping, in addition to its main
function of more uniformly distributing water supplies during the flood
season, but most of the land grows crops only under inundation during
the flood season.   Since the rainfall is erratic, crop production is
very variable, being subject to limitation both by droughts and by
excessive floods.   Under optimum moisture conditions, about four-
fifths of the Upper Delta is cultivated with rice and most of the re-
maining land is planted to peanuts, mung beans, soybeans and sesame.



- 5 -
Yields in good years are believed to be amongst the best in Thailand,
but as there are no accurate statistics, either of yields or of crop
acreages, precise figures are not available.
Land Tenure
3.09      The 1953 Thailand Economic Farm Survey showed approximately
75 percent of the cultivated land in the Central Plain to be farmer-
owned and operated as family units.   The remaining 25 percent of the
land is leased, usually under crop rental arrangements.   The average
farm unit is about five hectares and is operated by the owner without
hired labor or machinery.
3.10      Data are insufficient to establish whether this land tenure
pattern extends to the Upper Delta, but since nearly 90 percent of
the farm land of Thailand was shown in the 1953 Survey to be owner-
operated, it is unlikely to be very different.
Marketing
3.11      After retaining enough for his own consumption and for seed,
the farmer sells his rice crop as paddy, either to itinerant buyers
or to local merchants who have often sold him goods on credit.   He
may also sell directly to the numerous rice mills.
3.12      Other crops are sold in the same way.   Fruits and
vegetables are mainly consumed locally, but some are transported to
Bangkok for sale.
3.13      The Government has adopted price stabilization as a means
of encouraging rice cultivation.   The floor price established for
1966 is 0 800 to 1,050 per metric ton, c.i.f. Bangkok, according to
grade.   The Government of Thailand also imposes taxes on rice exports
composed of Rice Premium and an  Export Tax.   This produces revenue
for the Government and has the effect of lowering the domestic price
of rice as compared to world prices.   Domestic prices for rice are
about one-half the world prices.   The Rice Premium is adjusted
periodicaIly in accordance with world prices.   For further explanation
of the Rice Premium, see Annex 1.
Transportation
3.14      The Central Plain has good transportation facilities com-
prising railroads, highways, feeder roads and navigable canals and
rivers.
3.15      The facilities of the Upper Delta are less well developed;
they include, however, the main north-south railroad which runs through
the area from Uttaradit south to Bangkok and a highway system which
connects the area with Bangkok.   The Nan River is navigable by river



- 6 -
craft fram Uttaradit down to its junction with the Ping River at
Nakhornsawan and omnards to Bangkok and the Gulf of Thailand.
Agricultural Production
3.16      Statistics of crop production in the area proposed for
further agricultural development are not reliable.   The best in-
formation available, from RID and the Rice Department, suggests
that paddy production at present averages about 1.5 tons per hectare
for all of Thailand.
3.17      The farm gate price for paddy varies from 0 745 to 0 1,000
per metric ton according to quality and the time of year at which it
is sold.   Information obtained by RID from the Ministry of Agriculture
and supplemented by sample surveys in the area indicates an average
price to the farmer of 0 850 per ton.   Production costs under existing
conditions are estimated at 0 325 per metric ton.
4. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project, which it is proposed the Bank should help to
finance, would be the construction of the Phasom Dam and reservoir,
together with associated facilities.   The work would be completed
within five years (see Annex 2).   In addition to the construction
work, studies would be conducted, one for an irrigation project in
the Nan River Valley, and the other for the formulation of a plan
for the rapid introduction of second cropping in the northern part of
the Chao Phya Plain.   A future power project is expected to be con-
structed by the Yanhee Electricity Authority (YEA) and would include
a powerhouse at the dam site, together with transmission lines, sub-
stations and other power facilities to connect with and deLiver power
over the power system of the YEA.   The YEA would carry out a study
(to be completed in 1967) to determine the best timing for installation
and the optimum capacity of power generating facilities at the Phasom
Dam.
Proposed Works
4.02      The principal features to be constructed under the project
would be the Phasom Dam, a concrete, flat-slab and buttress-type
structure, approximately 60 km upstream from Uttaradit; five earth
saddle dams along the rim of the reservoir located 20 km north-west of
the main dam site; concrete foundations and provision for penstocks
for a future powerhouse; an access road to the dam approximately 60
km long from Uttaradit and roads and bridges in the area of the main
dam and campsite; an access road to the saddle dams, construction
camp and permanent buildings; an airfield; and facilities for con-
struction power and communications.   A detailed description of the
works is given in Annex 3.



- 7 -
L.03      The proposed concrete dam would be approximately 100 meters
in height and about 800 meters at the crest elevation of 166 meters.
It would provide a reservoir with a storage capacity of 9,000 million
m3.   The dam would be provided with an overflow crest-type spillway
having a maximum discharge capacity of 4,500 m3/second, controlled by
four automatically operated radial gates, each 13 meters wide by 6.5
meters high.   Four river outlets would be provided through the dam
for release of water from the reservoir for irrigation or other pur-
poses.   The outlets would be three meter diameter steel pipes  en-
cased in concrete and controlled by hydraulically operated high
pressure gates.   Provision would be made in the dam to permit the
future installation of penstocks for the proposed power plant.
4.04      The five saddle dams would be up to 35 meters in height and
would be constructed of compacted earth materials with riprap on the
upstream faces.
4.05     The RID is providing transportation facilities to the dam
site by a road from Uttaradit, and by an airfield approximately 40 km
from the dam site.   The road to the main dam is almost finished,
except for small amounts of excavation and surfacing.   Additional
roads would be constructed in the immediate vicinity of the main dam
site for camp and construction requirements.   Two concrete bridges,
one over the Nan River and one over the Paad River, a tributary
stream, have been nearly completed.   Work on the 15 km road to the
saddle dams was started toward the end of 1966.   The airfield is
completed and in operation.   Provision has also been made for the
transport of materials and supplies by river to a point about five km
upstream from Uttaradit where an unloading, warehousing and storage
area has been constructed.   From this point, materials would be
transported over the access road.   The cost of the works already com-
pleted is approximately US$ 5 million.
4.06      Satisfactory sources of sand, gravel, rock and earth
materials are readily available near the structure sites.   Cement,
steel, equipment and other items would be transported to the con-
struction site by road and boat.
4.07      Bulk power supply for the Central Plain is the responsibility
of the Yanhee Electricity Authority, a progressive, well managed utility,
with which the Bank has had continual relations since its formation in
1958.   Past load growth on the YEA system has been very rapid and
studies recently concluded by YEA and its consultants indicate the need
for energy sources in 1971 additional to those presently planned or
under construction.   The Phasom Dam and Reservoir would provide one
such source and during construction of the dam a foundation for a power-
house and the provision for the installation of future penstocks would
be made.   The costs of the powerhouse foundation and provision for
future penstocks would be included in the project.



-8-
Status of Engineering
4.08      Planning, investigations and preparation of the feasibility
report for the project were performed by Engineering Consultants, Inc.
(ECI), the consultants to the Royal Irrigation Department.   The RID
would employ ECI to prepare detailed construction drawings, as well
as to undertake the responsibility for supervision of contract con-
struction and of providing technical assistance and review of that
portion of the construction work which would be performed by the RID.
In addition, the RID has agreed that a Board of Consultants, consist-
ing of three experts to be appointed by RID after consultation with
the Bank, would be employed to advise as needed on special problems
which might develop during the design and construction of the Phasom
Dam.   The Board of Consultants would also review periodically the
progress of work and approve the basic design assumptions and criteria
adopted by ECI.
4.09      The RID would plan and prepare a feasibility study for the
proposed irrigation development in the Nan River Valley with the
assistance of expatriate personnel comprising as a mininum a planning
engineer, a design engineer and an agricultural economist.   The RID
plans to ask for such specialist assistance from the U.S. Bureau of
Reclamation with which it has had a good working relationship over the
past 20 years.   The RID has agreed to secure the services of these
experts not later than the end of 1967 or, if no such experts are avail-
able, a consulting firm would be engaged to provide the Department with
the consulting services required to complete the feasibility study.
4.10      The study of the northern part of the Chao Phya Plain would
be for the purpose of formulating an agricultural development program
for the rapid introduction of second cropping.   To undertake the
study, the Government intends to apply for technical assistance under
the Colombo Plan to obtain the services of experts.   The Government
has agreed that, if by the end of September 1967 no firm commitments
can be made for such services, it would proceed to select a consulting
finm, or other experts, to undertake the study by not later than the
end of 1967.   The study would include the improvement of the water
distribution systems, layout of drainage systems, land classification,
expansion of the road systems, and recommendations for an enlarged
agricultural program covering such aspects as cropping patterns,
fertilizers, seeds, extension services, agricultural credit and
marketing.
4.11      The proposed arrangements for the employment of consultants
and technical assistance are satisfactory.   Assurances have been
obtained from the Government that consultants would be employed as
outlined above and that the Bank would be given an opportunity to
approve the selection and terms of reference for all consultants.
Assurances have also been obtained from the Government that the studies
and reports for the Chao Phya area and the Nan River Valley would be
completed by not later than the end of September 1969 and the end of
December 1969 respectively.



-  9
Construction Cost Estimates
4.12      The cost estimates for the various construction features of
the project are based upon preliminary designs prepared by the con-
sultants with the assistance of RID.   Designs of the major works are
in sufficient detail to provide a reasonably satisfactory basis for
making work quantity estimates.   Costs have been estimated on the
basis of unit prices applied to the quantity estimates.   The unit
prices were established by the consultants in accordance with the
most recent experience of RID in performing similar work in Thailand
and upon the bid prices obtained for comparable work on the Bhumiphol
Dam Project.   Although the prices for Bhumiphol work are several
years old, up until recently costs for such work have not significantly
increased in Thailand.   To such total costs have been added adequate
provisions for contingencies, supervision and overhead, consulting
engineer costs, taxes and duties and interest during construction.
The estimates also include the cost of foreign consulting services
required to prepare the studies and reports as provided in paragraphs
35 and 36.   The cost estimates are reasonable.   Details of the cost
estimate are given in Annex 4 and are summarized below:
Local          Foreign
Currency        Exchange        Total
Estimated cost (Baht millions)   9h9.3           632.7        1,582.0
In US$ million equivalent         45.7            30.5           76.2
Construction Equipment and Supplies
4.13      A list of the various items and types of equipment and
supplies to be purchased for the project and their cost is given in
Annex 5.   The cost of such equipment, including insurance and freight
to Bangkok, is estimated to be approximately US$ 3.9 million.   The
cost estimates for equipment and supplies are based upon current vendor
quotations and the most recent experience of the RID in the purchase
of similar items.   The equipment requirements were prepared by the
RID and are based upon the performance of construction by the RID in
accordance with their past methods and practices which have been
satisfactory.   After completion of the saddle dams, the equipment
employed on that work would be used by the RID to start work on the
canal systems in the Nan River Valley.   No allowance has been made
for the salvage value of the construction equipment after completion
of the saddle dams.
Financing
4.14      The proposed Bank loan would cover about 38 percent of the
foreign exchange cost of the project, consisting of imported equip-
ment, spare parts, materials, payments to contractors and foreign



- 10 -
consulting services, but not interest during construction on the
loan.   The amount of the proposed loan would be US$ 10 million
(O 208 million), which is about 13 percent of the total cost.   A
US$ 16 million loan would be obtained by the Government from the
Bank of Thailand to finance the balance of the foreign exchange
cost.   The remainder of cost, totalling about $ 1,042 million,
would be met by budget allocations.
4.15      The expenditure schedule would be approximately as
follows:
Millions of Bahts
1966 and
Fiscal Year      earlier   1967  1968  1969  1970 1971   1972  Total
Local
Expenditures       100     120   190   290   145    80    24    949
Foreign
Expenditures        -      105   125   180   120    90    13    633
Totals        100     225   315   470   265   170    37   1582
Equivalent
Millions US$       4.8     10.8  15.2  22.7  12.7  8.2   1.8   76.2
IBRD Loan
Millions US$        -       1.8   2.3   2.9   1.7  1.2   0.1   10.0
5. WATER SUPPLY AND REQUIREMENTS
5.01      Records of stream flow on the Nan River at the dam site have
been taken since December 1954, providing almost 12 years of continuous
and reliable stream flow measurements.   Fhrthermore, stream flow
records have been maintained since 1938 at Uttaradit, which is approxi-
mately 60 km downstream from the dam site.   From theser cords, and from
the precipitation records, a reasonably reliable estimate of the river
discharges extending over a period of more than 25 years was obtained.
The average annual stream flow is estimated to be more than 7,000
million m3 at the Phasom Dam site.
5.02      In general, the proposed operation of the reservoir provides
for the storage of the monsoon waters during the period July through
October for release during the dry months extending from January
through April.   The Phasom Reservoir of 9,000 million m3 (which is in
excess of the annual runoff of 7,000 million m3) would permit the
storage of river flows that exceed the average flows and permit them
to be carried over and utilized in the succeeding year.   This would
have been possible in more than 40 percent of the years of record.



5.03      Reservoir operation studies indicate that the Phasom
Reservoir would permit the irrigation during the dry season of about
180,000 hectares of rice in the Chao Phya area and 200,000 hectares
in the Nan River Valley.   Such crops would be in addition to those
normally grown during the monsoon season.   Besides providing water
for agricultural purposes, the Phasom Reservoir could reduce flooding
during the monsoon season; could increase the flows during the dry
season to alleviate the salinity condition which prevails at Bangkok
and adversely affects the municipal water supply of that city; could
improve the navigability of the Nan River; and could provide electric
power.
5.04      The study of reservoir operations under full project develop-
ment, with priority to irrigation use and the 25 years of hydrologic
record shows critical water shortages in three years and minor water
shortages in four years.   These shortages, however, would occur at
the end of the dry period and extend into the beginning of the wet
period.   Such shortages, while reducing the agricultural production,
would nevertheless occur at a time of the year when agricultural
planting could be adjusted to the water supplies known to be available
in the reservoirs.   This would substantially reduce losses to the
cultivators.   Shortages of this frequency and magnitude are accept-
able.
6. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
6.01      The proposed project would permit the irrigation of 180,000
hectares of second cropping in the Chao Phya area with water from the
Phasom Reservoir.   This is over and above the 220,000 hectares which
would be second cropped with water from the Bhumiphol Reservoir as
described in paragraph 2.05.   To attain the benefits from second
cropping in the Chao Phya area, additional irrigation works over and
above those now constructed, or being constructed, would be required.
These would include better control facilities and structures on the
water distribution system and a complete drainage system to control
the groundwater levels which would be affected by the additional
water applied for second cropping.   Such works would be constructed
at a rate corresponding to development of second cropping and are
estimated to cost approximately US$ 65 per hectare.   Thus, for the
180,000 hectares to be irrigated from the Phasom reservoir, a total
of US$ 11.7 million would be invested over a period of 8 to 16 years,
and such costs have been taken into consideration in the economic
evaluation of the project.   In addition, an agricultural development
program to assist farmers to rapidly and successfully start second
cropping is necessary.   Plans for this program would be studied and
a report prepared as described in paragraph 4.10.
6.02      In the Nan River Valley, a future project consisting of a
diversion dam, main canals and distribution and drainage system is



- 12 -
contemplated.   Inasmuch as no agricultural, soils or engineering
data are available for this development, a feasibility study and
report would be prepared as described in paragraph 4.09.    It is
expected that such a development would provide irrigation for
about 400,000 hectares of first crop and 200,000 hectares of second
crop in the dry season, using water from Phasom Reservoir.    The
cost of such a development has been roughly estimated to be US$ 400
per hectare and the development period would extend over 13 years.
The water from the reservoir would overcome the adverse effects on
first crop yields caused by the short droughts which often occur in
June and July after the commencement of the monsoon rains and during
the early stages of plant growth.   Construction of this development
is estimated to begin in 1970 and to be completed in 1982.    The
timing is reasonable and was based on an acceptable rate of invest-
ment commensurate with the resources hitherto allocated to irrigation
development in Thailand.   The costs and benefits of this development
have been taken into consideration in the economic evaluation of the
proposed Phasom Dam Project.
6.03      For all areas, the second crop probably would be almost
entirely rice in the early years, though an increasing number of
farmers may turn to other crops as they gain knowledge of them.
Crops which would appear to be suitable include corn, peanuts, soy-
beans, mung beans, sesame, sugarcane, cotton, jute and kenaf.    An
estimate of production costs for rice is given in Annex 6.
6.04      The Thai Government is supporting the diversification of
cropping and is making provision for increased agricultural inputs.
Up to now, the efforts in this respect have not been satisfactory.
The Ministry of Agriculture has not been able to provide the personnel
and services which are needed for an effective program.    To introduce
and expand second cropping on a scale necessary to derive the full
benefits from the proposed project, will be a very difficult task to
achieve and will require a far greater effort.    The additional re-
quirements for second cropping over those for the first crop, irrespect-
ive of whether rice or other crops are being cultivated, include
fertilizers, improved seeds, pesticides, agricultural extension
services and credit.   Also, because of the short time available
between harvest and seed bed preparation, it would be necessary to
increase the mechanization of farm operations.   A greatly expanded
program for all these inputs would be required and assurances have
been obtained from the Government that it would promptly take the
measures necessary to assure more intensive farming of the areas to
which additional water would be supplied.
6.05      In conjunction with the preparation of the studies and
reports a program for complete classification of the land of the
Chao Phya and Nan River Valley areas is planned.    In the Nan River
Valley, this has been started, but no significant work has been
undertaken in the Chao Phya area.    For most effective development of
second cropping, it is necessary to know the nature of the soils, the



- 13 -
uses to which they are best adapted, the limitation on their use, and
the cultural practices most applicable to them.   This can be ascer-
tained only after the land has been properly classified.   The
significance of drainage could also be more accurately evaluated, as
this undoubtedly would become a significant problem with the greater
application of water for second cropping.   It is known that the
soils are suitable to grow rice, however, if better soils are found
which would grow crops of higher value the benefits from the project
would be enhanced.   The RID has secured from the U.S. Bureau of
Reclamation and elsewhere land classification experts who are to be
stationed in Thailand for several years, to program and accomplish
the work, including the training of Thai personnel.   It is anticipated
that the program would result in a semi-detailed land and soils
classification in accordance with U.S. Bureau of Reclamation standards.
The completion of this work is important for the prompt and orderly
development of the full benefits of the proposed project and the
Government agreed that the work for both the Nan River Valley and the
Chao Phya areas should be completed by not later than the end of 1968.
6.06      In the absence of detailed information on the soils of the
area, the markets available for upland crops, the receptiveness of the
farmers to more intensive cultivation, and the general lack of
experience with second cropping in the areas affected, it is, of course,
impossible to forecast with any certainty the likely pattern of farm
production.   For economic studies of the project, it has been assumed
that the entire area to be irrigated from the Phasom Reservoir would be
used for rice cultivation.   This assumption has been made because
farmers would, in general, be more familiar with rice cultivation, the
returns would represent a minimum condition of benefits and it is known
that the soils would, in any case, be suitable for rice growing.   A
cropping pattern consisting of pred6minantly upland crops with some
rice has been studied as an alternative.   Annex 7 describes the areas
and general types of crops to be irrigated under both assumptions.
7. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Construction
7.01      The RID agrees that the Phasom Dam should be constructed by
contract under international bidding procedures and that the Bank
would be given an opportunity to comment on such awards before they are
made.   For that portion of the project to be constructed by force
account by the RID, substantial quantities of equipment and spare parts
would be needed to supplement that which is now available to the Depart-
ment.   In addition, the RID would purchase supplies and materials re-
quired for incorporation into all parts of the project.   The RID agrees
that all such equipment and supplies would be purchased on the basis of
international competitive bidding procedures and major contracts would
be awarded only after the Bank has been given an opportunity to comment
thereon.



- 14 -
7.02      The RID has substantially completed the work on the access
road and has done considerable work on the camp facilities and on
the bridges across the Nan River and on the Paad River, a tributary
stream near the dam site.   The RID would continue the work on the
roads, bridges and camp facilities required for its own use and that
of the consultant, and would perform any additional work as needed
for the camp and roads.   The RID would also undertake the con-
struction by force account of the saddle dams and access road there-
to, and would perform a portion of the excavation for the foundation
of the Phasom Dam prior to the time the contract is awarded to an
international contractor.   The RID has had experience in construction
of similar works and is fully qualified to carry them out.   The RID
would be responsible for operation and maintenance of the project.
7.03      The engineering consultants and qualified experts to be
employed would act as advisers and review the construction work per-
formed by the RID and assist in the selection of construction equip-
ment.   The consultants would be responsible for all contract
supervision and would be the agents for RID for all contractor
relationships and would certify to the appropriateness of the with-
drawals from the loan account.
Studies and Reports
7.04      In connection with the further studies and preparation of
reports, close coordination would be required between the consultants
and Government ministries and agencies such as the Ministry of
Agriculture, the Royal Irrigation Department, the Land Survey Depart-
ment and the Department of Highways at the national and provincial
levels.   The Ministry of Agriculture would participate in the planning
of all agricultural aspects, the RID would take part in the planning
of all irrigation works and the Department of Highways would join in
the planning of the road systems.
8. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The Phasom Reservoir could provide irrigation for about
180,000 hectares of second cropping in the Chao Phya area and for
approximately 200,000 hectares of second cropping in the Nan River
Valley area, where it would also provide a dependable irrigation
supply for 400,000 hectares of first cropping.   In the Chao Phya
area, water would be needed from (and benefits accrue to) the Phasom
Reservoir only after the water from Bhumiphol Reservoir has been ily
utilized for 220,000 hectares of second cropping.   Likewise in the
Nan River Valley, the water cculd be used and benefits realized from
the Phasom Reservoir in accordance with the rate at which construction
is completed for the irrigation works.



8.02      At full development of the 180,000 hectares of second crop
rice in the Chao Phya area the annual gross value of production at farm
prices is estimated at US$ 18.0 million.   Production nsts, including
agricultural services, are expected to be about US$ 5.9 million.
Allowing for operation and maintenance expenditures, the net value of
production at farm prices would be about US$ 11.6 million.   For the
computation of economic benefits the value of production was estimated
on the basis of world market prices.   Thus, benefits from the project
would be equal to the net value of rice produced at farm prices, plus
export tax collection on all rice produced.   The net value of incremental
annual production to the economy at full development would consequently
be about US$ 24.6 million.   Similarly, when the Nan River Valley area is
fully developed, the net annual value of production at farm prices would
be about US$ 12.8 million and net benefits to the economy US$ 27.3
million.   The total annual net benefits from the Chao Phya and the Nan
River Valley areas would thus be about US$ 51.9 million.
8.03      After making allowance for domestic consumption of rice, it is
expected that approxinately 290,000 and 335,000 metric tons of rice from
second cropping would be available for export from the Chao Phya and Nan
River Valley areas respectively.   Tax collections in the form or rice
premium and export taxes (Annex 1) are estimated at US$ 10.7 million and
US$12.4 million from rice produced in the Chao Phya and Nan River Valley
areas respectively.   The combined production increase of the two areas
at full development would thus result in a 33 percent increase in the
volume of rice exported from Thailand and an equal percentage increase
in rice tax collections over the 1965 level.
8.04      Some of the assumptions on which the above benefits have been
calculated are not yet as well documented by definitive studies as is
normally required by the Bank.   Accordingly, it has not been easy to
decide how to calculate the economic return on the investment in the
project, or whether to postpone consideration of the project until the
necessary studies have firmed up the assumptions.   There are arguments
on both sides.   The studies that have not been carried out are the
engineering, land classification and feasibility studies of the irriga-
tion in the Nan River Valley.   These are important.   These consider-
ations argue for postponement of the project.   On the other hand, the
arguments against postponement are that the farmers of Thailand are by
tradition adapted to irrigated agriculture, and that the Bank, during
the past 15 years, has had sufficient experience in Thailand to be con-
fident that the RID can construct and operate the project efficiently,
preparations for construction have been started and have gained
momentum, and to defer the work would mean dispersion of a team fully
geared to proceed, would diminish the momentum of accomplishment now
acquired, and would impair the investment already incurred.
8.05      In order to arrive at a recommendation, the economic rate of
return on the project was calculated on various assumptions, starting
with a minimum (and in fact unrealistic) assumption of the possible



- 16 -
benefits, to indicate the maximum risk involved in proceeding with
the financing forthwith.   This calculation is made on the basis
that the water stored in the reservoir and the river regulation pro-
vided by the project is utilized solely for greater production of
rice on 180,000 hectares of rice in the Chao Phya area.    It takes
no credit for:
a) benefits for Nan River Valley irrigation;
b)  benefits from any more valuable crops than rice;
c)  benefits from electrical generation;
d)  benefits from flood control;
e)  benefits from navigation;  and
f)  benefits from salinity control.
It has been assumed that the development of second cropping could
vary from 11,000 to 22,000 hectares per year.    On these assumptions,
the rate of return on the US$ 80 million investment in the dam and
the additional irrigation works in the Chao Phya area would range
between 6 and 10 percent, depending on the rate of development of
second cropping when the benefits are discounted over the economic
lift of the project.
8.06      If more realistic assumptions are used, and credit is taken
for benefits from the Nan River Valley irrigation, the return increases
to between 11 and 14 percent.   If the second crops in both areas are
assumed to be higher value crops than rice, the return would increase
to between 12 and 15 percent.
8.07      Preliminary studies of a proposed power installation indicate
that power facilities of 150 to 300 MW at the dam would improve the
economic returns from the project.   These studies are based upon a
comparison with  equivalent thermal generating facilities.    As the
complete utilization of all the available water from Phasom Reservoir
for irrigation purposes may require 10 to 30 years, depending on the
rate of agricultural development, the reservoir water supplies could
be used for power development during this period to assure the best
returns from the project.   Assurances have been obtained from the
Government that it would cause YEA to carry out further studies of the
power project under terms of reference as agreed with the Bank to
determine the best timing for installation and the optimum capacity of
power generating facilities at the Phasom Dam.    In the early years of
the project, until the irrigation water demands are controlling, the
reservoir water releases should be scheduled to obtain the optimum
power benefits.
8.08      Benefits from flood control, navigation and salinity control
would add something to the project returns.    Taking all these into
account, it has been concluded that the range of economic returns in
prospect ranging from a minimum of six percent under the most unfavor-
able assumptions to a maximum of over 15 percent under the more favor-
able assumptions justify proceeding with the financing of the project
forthwith.



- 17 -
9. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMEINATIONS
9.01      The project is an essential and integral part of the overall
plan of agricultural development for the Central Plain of Thailand.
It would assist in controlling the floodwaters, provide a dependable
water supply during the dry season and permit more intensive cultivation
of the land in the Chao Phya area, as well as in the future irrigation
development in the Nan River Valley.   The additional water supplies
impounded by the Phasom Dam would permit second cropping of the areas,
enable greater crop yields to be obtained and substantially increase the
value of Thailand's agricultural production and volume of exports.
9.02      To realize the benefits attributable to the Phasom Dam Project
from the Nan River Valley would require the planning and construction of
a suitable project in that valley.   Therefore, it would be necessary to
carry out an energetic planning and development program, under which the
required irrigation works such as diversion dams, canals and distribution
systems would be constructed as soon as practicable.   Since such planning
and construction work would, to some extent, have to be carried out
simultaneously with the construction activity on the Phasom Dam, the
programs must be phased in such a manner as to permit optimum benefits
within the limits of the national budget and the capability of the RID.
9.03      A final determination of the area of land on which the waters
of the Phasom Reservoir may most effectively be utilized could be made
only after the classification of all potential lands is completed.
This work has not progressed to a point where a reliable conclusion
could be reached.   The land classification should be carried out as
soon as practicable for proper planning of crop patterns, prompt and
effective use of water and to obtain the maximum benefits as quickly
as possible.
9.o4      Optimum benefits from the Phasom Dam Project are dependent upon
a rapid rate of development of second cropping and on the production of
crops which can be marketed readily at profitable prices.   It is apparent
from the middling results obtained from current efforts to intensify
cropping in the Chao Phya area that a more forceful and effective program
will have to be devised to reach and maintain a satisfactory rate of
development.   Special measures must therefore be taken to encourage the
Thai farmer to farm his land holdings in a more intensive manner through
assistance in various agricultural programs, including extension service,
credit, seed improvement, pest control, marketing and other appropriate
measures.   The proposed study and report should establish the most
effective manner in which to reach these objectives.
9.05      The RID, which has successfully completed or has nearly com-
pleted the work on four previous loans made by the Bank, has shown in
the past appreciable ability in the execution of water resource projects
in Thailand.   The organization is well managed and staffed with a
capable professional staff.   It has a number of projects successfully



- 18 -
underway in the planning, construction and operation stages.    With
the assistance of consultants and special experts, complex and
difficult projects comparable to the Phasom Dam have been undertaken
and successfully completed.   The RID should be equally successful
with the proposed project.
9.06      The lack of adequate information on the land rescurces, the
problems associated with attaining an acceptable rate of second
cropping and corresponding benefits, and the necessity to make a number
of broad judgments as to costs, crcp yields, market potentials and
rates of expected development on the project have made the appraisal of
this project less conclusive than for other projects.    The performance
of the RID on similar projects and the fact that under extremely
pessimistic assumptions the economic return would not go below six per-
cent have been essential factors in reaching the conclusions herein.
In spite of the uncertainties, the project appears to be one which can
be expected to be very successful and helpful to the economy of Thailand.
9.07      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 10.0 million
for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of 6 years.
March 23, 1967



PHASOM DAM PROJECT
Rice Taxes and Export Price of Rice
1.        The Government of Thailand maintains a flexible Rice Pre-
mium and Export Tax on rice exports. These taxes which are the
principal ones levied on the agricultural sector, have the dual purpose
of providing revenue and insulating the price of domestically con-
sumed rice from price fluctuations of this crop on the world market.
Although they apply only to exported rice, these taxes strongly
affect domestic prices which are currently about half of the export
price. Since rice farmers who are the principal users of irrigation
water do not pay water charges, the Rice Taxes in fact serve as a
substitute to water charges which are normally paid by farmers in
similar projects elsewhere.
2.        It is estimated that during fiscal year 1964/65 the Rice
Premium averaged 0 663 and the Export Tax 0 104 per metric ton on
all grades of milled rice exported. Assuming an effective milling
yield of 70 perc_nt, this represents an equivalent tax level of
g 537 per metric ton of paddy. With average yields to be realized
in the project area from dry season rice crops estimated at 2.8
metric tons of paddy per hectare, farmers would in effect be paying
an indirect tax of 2.8 x 0 537, or approximately 5 1,445 per hectare.
3.        Assuming an average price of 0 745 per metric ton of paddy
and a milling yield of 70 percent, the average 1965 export price on one
metric ton of rice FOB Bangkok is composed of the following:
Bahts         Percentage
Farmer's share                       1,063               47
Rice Premium            663                        29
Export Tax              104         767            5     34
Intermediaries, milling,
transport                         430                  19
Average export price per
metric ton of rice
FOB Bangkok                        2,260              100
(US$109)
4.        The Rice Premium is adjusted periodically in accordance
with world market prices. Estimated collections from the Rice
Premium and Export Tax during fiscal year 1964/65 were $ 1,445
million. Assuming that the present levies of 0 767 per metric ton
represent a reasonable expected average, the revenues attributahle
to Phasom Dam Project at full development would be about 0 223
million from rice exports originating in Chao Phya and % 258
million from the Nan River Valley, making a total of 0 481 million.



THAILAND: PHASOM DAM PROJECT
PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
DESCRIPTION                           1966        1967            1968            1969             1970            1971
J A S O ND JCFIM AMJ J AS OND J FIMA_MJ _A_  e  JA F M|A|MJJASO ND J FMAMJJASONDJ|F|M|A|M|J|JASOND
PHASOM DAM (CONTRACTOR CONSTRUCTION)
CONSULTANT
LETTER OF INTENT
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS-DRAFT
REVIEW AND APPROVAL
CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS AND SUPERVISION
FINAL REPORTS
CONTRACTOR
ISSUE INVITATION AND OPEN BIDS
CONTRACT AWARD                                                       A
APPROVAL (NOTICE TO PROCEED)
CONSTRUCTION
MOBILIZATION (PLANT AND EQUIPMENT)
DIVERSION AND CARE OF RIVERSTRSOINWAE
~RID Excavation-
EXCAVATION -DAM, PP FOUNDATION
DAM, SPILLWAY, OUTLET WORKS AND POWERHOUSE FOUNDATION
COMPLETION (CLEANUP AND MOVEOUT)
SADDLE DAMS (RID CONSTRUCTION)
CONSULTANT
LETTER OF INTENT
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION
FINAL REPORTS
CONSTRUCTION
PREPARATION WORKS (CAMP AND FACILITIES)
PURCHASE AND MOBILIZE EQUIPMENT
DAMS
COMPLETION (CLEANUP AND MOVEOUT)                                                                                                             z
z
NOTE Approximate flood season, July through October                                                                                 IBRD - 3334
October                                                                IBRD - 3334~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHASOM DAM PROJECT
Description of Works
1.        The engineering wqorks comprising the project would include the
following:  the Phasom Dam including spillway and outlet works, minimum
facilities to permit the future installation of power facilities at the
Dam, five earth saddle dams, access roads and bridges, airfield, trans-
mission lines and substations to provide construction power at the dam
site and camp, a construction community and other related facilities.
Phasom Dam
2.        The Phasom Dam would be a concrete flat-slab and buttress type
structure. The dam would rise approximately 100 meters above the stream
bed. The length of the concrete section would be approximately 800 meters
at the crest elevation of 166 meters. Approximately 900,000 m of concrete
would be required for the dam and appurtenant structures. The buttresses
of the dam would be spaced approximately 7 1/2 meters center to center. In
the river section, eight buttress spaces would be utilized for a radial-gate
controlled spillway which would also accommodate four individual river outlet
conduits so that the spillway and outlet works discharges would utilize the
same apron and stilling basin. Adjacent to the spillway outlet works section
on the left side of the dam would be a section including intakes for possible
future penstocks utilizing 18 buttress spacings; In the areas used for out-
let conduits and penstocks, the dam would be mass concrete to sufficient
height to support the buttress sections.  Underdrains t-ould be provided -here
necessary to relieve uplift pressures. Foundation grouting and drain holes
would be provided where required, to seal the foundation and provide pressure
relief. A continuous concrete bearing section would be entrenched in the
foundation rock at the upstream heel of the dam. A fault zone in the foun-
dation near the right abutment would be excavated, filled with concrete and
otherwise treated to be watertight and provide the support needed by the dam.
A concrete parapet slightly over a meter high would be provided on the up-
stream side of the roadway across the dam crest.
SpillWay
3.        The spillway would be an overflow crest type, 52 meters wide with
a crest at elevation 154 m. and with a stilling basin extending downstream
from the dam. Control would be by four 13.0 meter wide by 6.50 meter high
automatic, electrically operated radial gates with provisions for manual
operation. The spillway would be designed to limit the discharge to 3,000
m /Second assuming a 100-year flood with a peak inflow of 5,b00 m3/Second
and also would limit the surcharge above normal water surface elevation 160,
to 6 meters when passing the spillway design flood with a peak inflow of
8,000 m3/Second. The maximum discharge of the spillway would be b,500 m3/
Second with the water surface at elevation 165.7/
River Outlets
L.        Four individual river outlets would be provided throught the dam,
each consisting of a 3.0 meter diameter steel conduit encased in concrete



ANNEX 3
Page 2
regulated by two hydraulically operated high pressure gates 2.4 meters by
3.0 meters high. The upstream entrance to the river outlets would be pro-
tected from large logs and debris by a large-opening, steel-grill trashrack.
The discharges from the river outlets would be through the downstream spil-
lway-face slab. The outlets would each have a discharge varying from lb5
m3/Second with a nearly empty reservoir at elevation 112, to 225 m3/Second
with a full reservoir at elevation 160. The outlets would be used to make
irrigation releases.
Future Power Facilities
5.        Provision for a future power installation at the dam would be made
by constructing the concrete foundations up to elevation 71.5 meters above
mean sea level for the powerhouse and installing b intakes and trashrack
structures on the upstream face of the dam so that at some future time the
powerhouse could be completed without unwatering the foundation and the power
penstocks could be installed without removtng th6 water from the resbrvoir.
Approximately 50,000 m3 of concrete would be required for these works.
Saddle Dams
6.        Five saddle dams up to 35 meters in height would be constructed
approximately 20 kilometers west northwest of the main dam site at low points
in the rim of the reservoir. The saddle dams would be constructed of approx-
imately 3 million cubic meters of compacted earth fill covered on the up-
stream side with riprap.  The top of the saddle dams would be at elevation
168.0 and they would have a top width of 5 meters suitable for use as a
maintenance road. The side slopes of the saddle dams would be constructed
to 2 1/2 to 1 slopes, and the dams would be provided with a cut-off trench as
required in the foundation. The total volume of the saddle dikes is approx-
imately 3 million cubic meters.
Access Roads
7.        Construction of an access road from Uttaradit to the dam site, a
distance of approximately 60 kilometers, has been substantially completed.
A branch road, 15 kilometers in length taking off from kilometer 28, would
be needed for access to the saddle area. A portion of this road has also
been constructed. A short distance downstream from the dam site two concrete
and steel bridges are nearing completion, one over the Nan River and one over
the Paad River, a tributary stream. Under the project all roadwork and
bridges would be completed and additional road facilities would be provided
at the dam site.
Construction Power
8.        It is estimated that the peak construction power requirements will
not exceed 5,000 k.w. For this purpose it is expected that the Yanhae Elec-
tricity Authority would construct a 69 k.v. transmission line from the YEA
system at Uttaradit to the dam site. The 69 k.v. tie line would be in addi-
tion to any high voltage interconnection which would be provided when the



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Phasom power plant is constructed. The line would also provide a permanent
source of power for operation of project facilities, including operators
camp, after construction is completed and before the local power facilities
are installed in the dam.
Construction Camp and Other Facilities
9.        The project would include the construction of complete camp facil-
ities at the dam site. Buildings to be constructed would include those ne-
cessary for administration, office, and warehousing use as well as other
service buildings and housing for professional and laborer staff.  All sup-
porting facilities including roads, streets, water systems, power facilities
and other utilities would be provided for the camp site. The RID would con-
struct the camp facilities for its use and for the consultant's use. The
Civil Works contractor for the main dam would construct all facilities
needed for his use.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
STATISTICAL DATA ON DAM AND RESERVOIR
Reservoir
Sediment Storage                                   1,080 million m3
Dead Storage                                         170 million m3
Minimum Operating Pool, for power El. 110          1,000 million m3
Minimum Operating Pool, for irrigation El. 96        300 million m3
Operating Storage, for power El. 160               8,000 million m3
Operating Storage, for irrigation El. 160          8,700 million m3
Total Storage, El. 160, top of spill-way gates     9,000 million m3
Total Storage, El. 165.7                          10,500 million m3
Surcharge Storage                                  1,500 million m3
Dam
Length                                               800 meters
Height (above streambed)                             100 meters
Crest Elevation                                      166 meters
Surcharge and Freeboard Height                         6 meters
Spillway Gate - Crest (sill) Elevation               154 meters
Spillwaay Gates, 13.0 x 6.50 meters                    4
Capacity at Elevation 160                        1,600 m3/Second
Capacity at Elevation 165.7                      4,500 m3/Second
Outlet Works Intake Sill Elevation                    91 meters
Outlet Works Gates, 2.4 x 3.0 Sets                     4
Capacity at Elevation 112                          580 m3/Second
Capacity at Elevation 160                          900 m3/Second
Penstock Intakes-Sill Elevation                       91 meters
Penstock Intakes-Number provided                       4
Concrete in Dam                                  912,300 cubic meters
Excavation for Dam                             1,060,000 cubic meters



ANNEX 4
PHASOM DAM PROJECT
Estimate of Costs
Local Costs   Foreign Exchange    Total
Costs         Cost
Bahts             US$           Bahts
-----------      Millions-------------
Phasom dam, spillway and outlets    413.0            13.3           688.6
Powerhouse foundation structure
and intakes                        29.0              .8            45.6
Gates, trashracks, outlet pipes
and other materials                 3.3             1.0            24.1
Contingencies 20%    89.2              3.0           151.4
Saddle dams                          35.4             1.8            72.0
Land, land rights and resettlement   38.8             -              38.8
Clearing reservoir area              18.0              .4             26.5
Electric power and distribution
systems                             4.2              .5            14.6
Roads and Streets and bridges        78.0                            78.0
RID camp and utilities               28.6              .3             34.9
Transport equipment                   -                .8             16.6
Contingencies 15%    30.3               .6            42.8
Engineering and administration      106.5             3.5           179.1
Investment for economic analysis                          1/
SUB-TOTAL           874.3              26.0-       1,413.0
Local taxes and duties        2/     75.0             -              75.0
Interest during construction -        -               4.5            94.0
GRAND TOTAL         949.3             30.5        1,582.0
1/ Bank loan equal to approximately 38 percent at this amount.
2/ Simple interest on foreign exchange costs @ 6 percent. Not
included in proposed Bank loan.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PHASOM DAM PROJECT
Equipment and Supplies for Construction
No.      Unit Cost   Total Cost
Item           Equipment                  Required  (CIF Bangkok)
US$         US$
PHASOM DAM
I. TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT
A. For Cement (Takli-Phasom)
(250,000 tons)
1          Tractors                     40        16,000       640,000
2          Tank trailers                36         9,000       324,000
3          Spare parts                  15%          -         1441,600
4          Silo's 3,500 tons             3        50,000       150,000
5          Silo equipment               Lump Sum     -          75,000
Sub-total                         1,333,600a/
B. For Other Materials
1          Tractor and 25 ton lowbed     1        25,000        25,000
2          Tractor and 50 ton lowbed     1        29,000        29,coo
3.         Tractor and 15 ton semi-
trailer                     2        24,000        48,000
4          Tractor and 15 ton van        1        28,000        28,000
5          21,000 GVW flatbeds           h         5,000        20,000
6          7,000 lb. Service van truck   4         5,000        20,000
7          7,000 lb. Pick-up             1         3,000         3,000
8          30,000 lb. Wrecker truck      2        30,000        60,000
9          Stationwagons                 2         3,500         7,000
10          Field jeeps                   2         4,000         8,000
11          Fork lifts                    2         8,000        16,000
12          Marine miscellaneous         Lump Sum 80,000         80,000
13          Spare parts                               -          36,000
Sub-total                          380,000=.'
C. For Personnel
1          Cars and jeeps               20         4,000        80,000
2          Motor-cycles                 10           500         5,000
3          Ambulance                     1         6,000         6,000
4          Spare parts                               -           5,000
Sub-total                           96,00Qo /



ANNEX 5
Page 2
No.       Unit Cost   Total Cost
Item      Equipment                    Required   (CIF B2ngkok)
US$        US$
PHASOM DAM Cont'd
D. For Construction (Warehouse,
Camp, Shop)
1      Flatbed (21,000 lbs)              2          5,000       10,000
2      Pick-up trucks                    3          3,000         9,000
3      Water-truck                       1          9,000        9,000
4      Fork-lift                         1          8,000        8,000
5      Mobile crane (50 ton)             1         80,000       80,000
6      Spare parts                                   -           7,500
Sub-total                                  123,500
II. EQUIPMENT FOR CAMP FACILITIES
1      Carpenter shop                   Lump Sun 10,000         10,000
2      Electric shop                    Lump Sum  25,000        25,000
3      Machine shop                    Lump Sum    5,000         5,000
b      Hospital                         Lump Sum 10,000         10,000
5      Office                          Lump Sum  10,000         10,000
6      Laboratory                      Lump Sum 10,000          10,000
Sub-total                                   70,000e
GRAND TOTAL PHASOM DAM                    2,003,100
SADDLE DAMS
I. CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
1      20 c.y. Scrapers                  8         58,ooo       L6b,000
2      15 c.y. Dump trucks               5         28,000      1bO,000
3      D8 - Dozers (270 h.p.)            5         54,500      272,500
b      D7 - Dozers (180 h.p.)            3         35,000      105,000
5      10 c.y. Dump truck                3         21,000       63,000
6      Front end loader                  1         21,000       21,000
7      2 1/2 yd shovel                   1         75,000       75,000
8      2 1/2 yd dragline                 1         75,000       75,000
9      Sheepfoot rollers                 2          5,000       10,000
10      50-ton pneumatic roller           1          8,000         8,000
11      Water truck                       3          9,000       27,000
12      Lub truck                         1        10,000        10,000
13      Air compressors                  Lump Sum   40,000       h0,000
1l      Pumps                            Lump Sum    8,000        8,000



ANNEX 5
Page 3
No.       Unit Cost     Total Cost
Item    Equipment                   Required    (CIF Bangkok)
US$           US$
SADDLE DAMS Cont'd
I. CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT Cont'd
15      Field jeeps                    2            4,000         8,000
16      Motor graders                  3           12,000        36,000
17      Flatbed trucks (21,000)        2            5,000        10,000
18      Miscellaneous                  Lump Sum    30,000        30,000
19      Spare parts                                    -        210,000
f/
Sub-total                               1,612,500-
II.  EQUIPMENT FOR CONSTRUCTION FACILITIES
1      Carpenter shop                 Lump Sum     2,000         2,000
2      Electric shop                  Lump Sum     2,000         2,000
3      Blacksmith shop                Lump Sum     2,000         2,000
4      Machine shop                   Lump Sum     2,000         2,000
5      Repair shop (Heavy duty)        Lump Sum   20,000        20,000
6      Lub and tire shop               Lump Sum    6,ooo         6,000
7      Hospital (First aid only)       Lump Sum    2,000         2,000
8      Office                         Lump Sum     2,000         2,000
9      Laboratory                     Lump Sum   10,000         10,000
Sub-total                                 48,000
III. MISCELLANEOUS
1      Motor cycles                     6            500         3,000
2      Minor items                    Lump Sum        -         70,000
Sub-total                                 73,000
GRAND TOTAL SADDIE DAMS                1,733,500



ANNEX 5
Page 4
No.       Unit Cost     Total Cost
Item       Equipment                   Required    (CIF Bangkok)
US$           US$
CENTRAL OFFICE AT EANGKOK
1        Cars, jeep, stationwagon      10           4,000          40,000
2        Office supplies               Lump Sum   30,000           30,000
3        Shops                         Lump Sum   40,000           40,000
4        Spare parts                               12,000          12,000
Sub-total                                   122,000_/
TOTAL RID DOLLAR REQUIREMENTS FOR
EQUIPNENT AND SUPPLIES               US$ 3,858,60o
NOTES:
a  - This cost is already included in cement cost of the
project estimate.
b -   This cost is already included in cost for Transport
equipment of the project estimate.
c -   Same as b.
d  -  Same as b.
e  - This cost is already included in cost for RID Camp
and Utilities of the project estimate.
f  - This cost is already included as a cost for Saddle
Dams in the project estimate.
g - Same as f.
h  - This cost is already included in the project estimates
as Transport Equipment except cost of fuel and oil which
is included in various items of the project estimate.
i - Same as h.



ANNEX 6
PHASOM DAM PROJECT
Estimated Production Costs for Rice
Bahts
per ha.
Current basic production cost      325
Fertilizers (16:20:0)
125 Kg per ha at 0 1,900
per ton)                            238
Contract Cultivation
(4 of area at 0 125 per ha)        30
Extension Services                   20
Other (includes cost of
introducing seed of new varieties)  67
TOTAL                            0 680



A/,RNEX 7
PHASOM DAM PROJECT
Possible Alternative Patterns of Agricultural Development
Utilizing Water from Bhumiphol and Phasom Reservoirs
Predominantly
Upland Crops
with some Rice         All Rice -
1. Chao Phya Plain
Bhumiphol
Upland Crops - Dry Season            14h,000 ha            1h4,000 ha
Rice Crops - Dry Season               80,000 ha             80,000 ha
Phasom
Upland Crops - Dry Season             336,000 ha               _
Rice Crops - Dry Season                   -                180,000 ha
Upland Crops - Intermediate            80,000 ha               -
Sub-total                     6h0,000 ha            404,000 ha
2. Nan River Valley
Upland Crops - Dry Season             208,000 ha
Rice Crops - Dry Season                                    208,000 ha
Rice Crops - Wet Season              368,000 ha            400,000 ha
Sub-total                     576,ooo ha            608,000 ha
GRAND TOTAL                 1,216,000 ha          1,012,000 ha
1/ Water requirements for dry season rice crop were estimated to be 1.75
times that of upland crops. Water available for rice irrigation in-
cludes 15 percent return flow; for upland crops no return flow was
assumed. The net result is that when all-rice cultivation is assumed
the areas must be reduced as shown.



ANNEX a
page 1
PHASOM DAM PROJECT
Rate of Agricultural Development and Net Returns
1.        Given the paucity of data relating to the probable rate and type OL
agricultural development in the areas to benefit from the project, a study of
economic benefits was undertaken, taking as variables the rate at which
second cropping would be introduced, the type of crops to be grown, and the
timing of construction of the dam.
2.        First, a range of benefits wrere examined based on returns from
180,000 ha. of second rice crop in the Chao Phya area alone and using as a
variable the rate of introduction of double cropping.   The RID estimates
that approximately 220,000 ha. of second crop in the Chao Phya could be
irrigated from Bhumiplhol Reservoir.  The RID expects that this could be
accomplished by 1973 at the rate of 22,000 ha. annually.   Until the water
from Bhumiphol Reservoir is fully utilized, no benefits from second cropping
in the Chao Phya can be attributed to the Phasom Dam Project.    In the
absence of reliable data as to the rate at which the area could be brought
under double cropping, three different annual rates of development were
assumed:  22,000 ha;  15,000 ha; and 11,000 ha.   On this basis, the water
from Bhumiphol Reservoir would be fully utilized and second cropping benefitv
from Phasom Dam could start in 1974, 1979 or 1984t, respectively.  Discount-
ing taie benefits over the economic life of the project, estimated at 60 yearF,
the rate of return wcild be approximately 6 percent with the slow development
rate of second cropping, 8 percent with the medium rate and about 10 percent
with the fast rate.   The lower end of this range represents the expected
benefits from the project under the least favorable conditions.
3.        To more realistically examine all the benefits which may accrue to
the Phasom Dam Project, the expected benefits in the Nan River Valley must
also be added.   It is expected that the Phasom Reservoir could also provide
water for the irrigation of the Nan River Valley where 400,000 ha. of first
cropping and 200,000 ha. of second cropping would be practicable.   The cost
of constructing the necessary irrigation works in the Nan River Valley is
estimated to be US$ 160.0 million.   Budget limitations and RID's con-
struction capacity dictate the spreading of this expenditure over a 13 year
period, starting in 1969.   Although the irrigation works for first cropping
are not dependent on the Phasom Dam Project, they are required to enable the
irrigation of second cropping from the Phasom Reservoir.   Therefore, in
calculating the economic benefits, the cost for and benefits from first and
second cropping were included.   First crop irrigation is expected to start
in 1974 and full development would occur by 1982, while second crop irriga-
ticn could start in 197h.  The rate at which second cropping could be intro-
duced was once more treated as a variable and three alternative rates
corresponding to those assumed in the Chao Phya were used.   When the bene-
fits from the corresponding rates of development in the two areas are added
up and discounted, the range of economic returns increases to about 11 percent



AsN&X 8
page 2
with the slow rote of second cropping development, 12 percent with the mediunm
rate, and approximately 14 percent vwith the fast rate.  It should be noted
that the combined area in the Chao Phya and Nan River Valley to be brought
annually under second crop irrigation would thus be 44,000 ha; 30,000 ha;
or 22,000 ha.   On present knowledge, it appears likely that the development
will more likely occur on the lower end rather than the higher end of the
range.
L.        Since there is a possibility that upland crops will be introduced
as second crops, an evaluation of benefits was made with these crops. How-
ever, because a detailed cropping pattern, production cost figures and priceE
for the various crops were not available, only a rough estimate of benefits
w,Js practicable. The area to be double cropped corresponds to that estimate,
in Annex 7, and the economic returns from the Chao Phya and Nan River Valley
areas would be of the order of 12 to 15 percent, depending on the rate of
development which could be attained.
5.        The appraisal report has mentioned several uncertainties concerning
the advisability of proceeding with the project forthwith.    To indicate some
alternatives, the rate of return from the project was calculated with con-
struction of the dam delayed first by five years and then by ten years.    In
both cases, it was assumed that the study and report would be completed and
construction of irrigation works in the Nan River Valley could start in 1969.
A five year delay in construction would increase the benefits fromthe two
areas to a minimum of 13 percent, compared with the 11 percent rate of returr.
when there is no delay in construction.    The five year postponement causes
poor construction programming because of the peaking of work and creates
budgetary difficulties.   To avoid extremely high financial requirements
while still maintaining a reasonable rate of agricultural development, con-
struction of the dam would have to be delayed by at least ten years.    Such
a delay would increase the rate of return to a minimum of 14 percent.    How-
ever, a ten year delay is inadvisable for reasons indicated in paragraph 59.
6.        The following basic assumptions were made in computing economic
benefits from the Phasom Dam Project under the various alternatives discussed
above:
a)   Full benefits from a second crop of rice would be reached
five years after the start of irrigation.   Yields are
assumed to increase uniformly during the five year period.
Full benefits from the first crop would be realized upon
completion of irrigation works.   Actual crop yields, net
returns to farmers and net financial returns expected
from the project are described in the attached table;
b)   For computing economic benefits from the project, the
value of rice production was estimated on the basis of
export prices.   It was therefore assumed that benefits
per ton of rice produced would be equal to the sum of the
Rice Premium and Export Tax, plus net value at farm
prices totalling 1,830 Bahts (see Annex 1);



ANNEX 8
Page j
c)   The cost of additional irrigation works nccessary to
enable double cropping in the Chao Phya area uas esti-
mated to be ES.j 65 per ha, which investment would be
viade two years before the land is to be irrigated.
Operation and maintenance costs for second cropping
were estimated at US$ 3 per ha, which is one half of
the total 0 & i1 costs, the other one half is borne by
the first crop; and
d)   Construction costs of irrigation works in the Nan River
Valley were estimated at US$ 400.0 per ha, and are ex-
pected to be spread over a 13 year period starting in
1969.   These works would include all the necessary
facilities for both first and second cropping.   Oper-
ation and maintenance costs for these works were
estimated at US$ 6.0 per ha.



PRESENT AND PROJECTED YIELDS AI1D RETURNS
Rice                 Aggretate
Paddy   Paddy Gross   Production Net Return Available    1/    Tax    Financial
Yield   Price Value      Cost     to Farmer   for Exort      Revenue   Return
m.t/h-a  /m-.t  Mha      0/ha        $7amth                    /ha       04/ha
k. First Rice Crop
(Nan River Valley only)
1.   Before Development    1.5    745   1,118      325         793          .87         667       1L,460
2.   After Development     2.8    745   2,086      680       l,406         1.71       1,312       2,718
3.   Increment             1.3     -      968      355         613          .84         645       1,258
B. Second Rice Crop
(Chao Phya and Nan
River Valley)             2.8    745   2,086      680       l,i406        1.61       1,235       2,641
1/   Present dcmestic consumption from first crop was estimated at 180 kg of rice per hectare; by the time
full agricultural development is achieved domestic consumption is expected to increase to 250 kg per
ha for first crop and 350 kg per ha for second crop.
2/   Full benefits of second rice crop credited to project.



*.  .'  <  N   ........     THAILAND
PHASOM DAM PROJECT
Chiengman                        R
L A
K   Su          t         2      A--"~~~~~~~~~Vt-
Thnhe e<                             ThaP-'"""-'            .
Re..r.o.r                                      PHASOM DAM
)"\  / S   Z      i   i     ~~~~~~Nampard   .
X/                         gtaTadit'            * 
BHUM I P o                       \                    f/        >
/Mes.Td                              ts.n.jnu ok     \                                ;
NAN RIVER PROJECT
.  .       Xengpet         t>taengpe
@S,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(RPSD                        N .)  
nJ .*           \ .   b Bung Doraphet               ~~~~~~~~~~   ~~Chayaphu= .
X '*                ~~~~~~~Nakor.sa..n 
KA(AOHA POAPROE
9W ME KL00N0 PROJOCTX                                                                  50,KO   PROJECT  0,
. '.@@   \   \2            G  U L F   a,                     '
AUGUST 166                                                                                      RED KANG'M KRAHNG P
> . * . T H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                A    I  L  A D  A;1  o20305sr
AUGUST~~~~~~~~~~~~ 196                                                              IBR -F84



