LO0/MJ 61 q -riY
FILE      COPY                R E SRESTRICTED
Report No. P-554
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated, organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS.
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE KINGDOM      OF THAILAND
FOR
THE PHASOM DAM PROJECT
June 29, 1967



INTERNATION`TAL BAINK FOR RCTONSTRUCTION AND DEVEL0P>MiBT
REP2cRr ANID REC'I`-TENADATION OF TIE PRESIDETT
TO TH, EXECUTIJE DIRFTfCRS ONT A
PROPiDSED LOAF TO THE KINGDOM OF TMAILAND
FOR THE PHASOlI DAY PROJET
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Thailand, in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to U.S. ¶b26 million, to assist in financing the Phasom Dam on
the Nan River in Northwestern Thailand.
PART I - HISTORICAL
Thailand has a comprehensive program to increase control and
productive use of the waters of the Central Plain which accounts for
80 per cent of the couitry' s total cultivated Land.  This program has
already resulted in a massive increase in the production of rice,
Thailand's main crop, which has risen from a production of 7.3 million
tons of paddy in 1955 to about 11.9 million tons in 1966. The Banlk has
been active in financiing the requirements of this program and since 1950
has made five loans to Thailand for this purpose.
3.        Initially, the Bank made Loan 36-TH in 1950, for $18 million
equivalent, for the construction of the Chainat Diversion Dam on the
Chao Phya River in the Central Plain. Later on, in 1957, the Bank
made Loan 175-TH for about $66 million equivalent for the multi-purpose
Yanhee project, which now provides storage capacity to irrigate 220,000
hectares of land in the Chao Phya area during the dry season. Both
projects have now been completed. Subsequently, three additional loans
were made: loan 327-TI! for $3.4 million equivalent and Loan 328-TH
for $5.6 million equivalent, both in 1962, provided for the construction
of irrigation facilities in the Petchburi and Chao Phya regions,
respectively. Loan 391h-TH in 1964, for $22 million equivalent, assisted
in financing the construction of irrigation facilities in the Me Klong
River Basin in 'Testern Thailand.
4.        The construction of the Phasom Dam is another step in the
program.  It has been under study since late 1961 wjhen the Royal Irrigation
Department (RID) engaged consultants to prepare a feasibility report.
Several Bank Mlissions reviewed the status of preparation of the project
in 1964 and 1965, and final appraisal wras made by a Bank mission in June
and July, 1966.
5.        The loan was negotiated by a delegation headed by the Ambassador
of Thailand and Mr. Jeongjan Lambhu, Director General of the RID. Negotia-
tions were completed on Y`arch 10, 1967, for a loan in the amount of $10
million.  The foreign exchange component of the project amoults to 026



million, but I felt that in view of the high level of Thailand's reserves,
Bank financing should be restricted to $10 million. After negotiations
were completed, the Governor of the Bank of Thailand asked whether some
procedure might be established whereby the Bank of Thailand could use the
bforld Bank as a channe:L for financing the balance of the foreign exchange
cost. Accordingly, I agreed to a loan of $26 million on condition that
the Bank of Thailand purchase a full strip of maturities totalling $16
million.  I have advised the Thai Government that I would be willing to
repeat this pattern in further loans for projects in Thailand, but that
for the forseeable future I could not recommend more than token commitments
on such loans by the Bank. Operations of this kind would maintain the
continuity of Bank operations in Thailand, together with the advantages of
Bank project appraisal and supervision which Thailand is anxious to
retain.
6.        If the proposed loan is approved, it will be the 18th Bank loan
to Thailand. Of these, six have been fully disbursed. The following is
a summary statement of Bank loans to Thailand as at May 31, 1967.



- 3 -
SummaryStatement of Bank Loans to Thailand
Year Number
of     of                                                  Principal  Un-
Loan  Loan        Borrower              Purpose             Amount disbursed
1950   35-TIH Kingdom of Thailand  Railway Rehabilitation    $  3.0     -
37-TH Kingdom of Thailand   Port Improvement            4.4     -
36-TH Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation                 18.0     -
1955  128-TH  State Railways       Railway Rehabilitation     12.0      -
1956  151- m  Port Authority       Port Improvement             3.3     -
1957  175-TH Yanhee Electricity    Multi-purpose               65.8     -
Authority
1961  280-TH State Railways        Railway Rehabilitation      14.6    2.7
1962  327-TH Kingdom of Thailand   Petchburi Irrigation         3.4     .7
328-TH Kingdom of Thailand   Third Chao Phya Irrigation  5.6      .8
1963  333-TFI Yanhee Electricity   Power                        6.6     .1
Authority
341-TH  Kingdom of Thailand INational Highways          25.0   13.1
1964  370-TH  Industrial Finance   Industry                     2.5    1.5
Corporation of
Thailand
394-TH Kingdom of Thailand   7.Ieklong Irrigation       22.0   1^.4
1965  406-TH  Yanhee Electricity   Power                        6.0    1.0
Authority
1966  455-TH Kingdom of Thailand   tlational HighwTays         36.0   33.1
471-TH Kingdom of Thailand   Vocational Education        6.0     6.o
1967  489-TH  Yanhee Emectricity   Power                        5.0    5.0
Authority
Total (less cancellations):                                  $239.?
of which has been repaid                                      41.?
Total now outstanding:                                       $198.0
Amount sold:                       $16.7
of which has been repaid:           9.3                        7.4
Total now held by the Bank:                                  $190.6
Total undisbursed:                                                    76.4
No IDA credits have been extended to Thailand.



7.        Progress under Bank-financed projects in Thailand has generally
been satisfactoryg except that complicated procurement procedures, which
have now been simplified, caused some delay in disbursing the 1961 Railway
Loan (280-TH). The Closing Date on this loan was postponed to September
30, 1967, by which time the loan should be fully disbursed. The Closing
Dates of Loans 327-TH and 328-TH have also been postponed because of the
delay in carrying out preliminary engineering worlcs and to allow time for
the procurement of additional equipment. The Industrial Finance Corpora-
tion of Thailand (IFCT) has been sloW to submit projects for financing
under loan 370-TII for $2.5 million equivalent, signed in Farch, 1964. The
Bank has informed IFCT that the final date for crediting the loan account
under the loan (April 13, 1967) will not be extended, which means that
about $1.5 million of the Bank loan .ill be cancelled.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAF
8.        Borrower:     Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:       Various currencies equivalent to $26 million
with the Bank of Thailand purchasing a full
strip of maturities for $16 million.
Purpose:      Construction of the Phasom Dam and studies
related to the acceleration of agricultural
development and irrigation in the Chao Phya
and Nan River Valley areas.
Interest:     6% per annum
Commitment
charge:     3/8 of l) per annum
Amortization: Twenty years, including a six-year grace period;
thereafter semi-annual instalments to retire the
loan by August 15, 1987.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        A detailed appraisal of the project, entitled "Phasom Dam
Project - Thailand" (TO 563b) is attached.
10.       The proposed project calls for the construction of the Phasom
Dam and related auxiliary works on the Nan River.  The Phasom Dam is to
be a concrete structure about 100 meters high and 800 meters long. The
project also includes the construction of five saddle dams, up to 35
meters high, and built of compacted earth; and the construction - which
has been completed - of an airfield, twTo access roads including bridges,
and campsite faci]ities for use during and after construction work on the
dam.  Studies to be prepared by consultants or experts relate to the



timing and size of the power generating facilities to be installed at the
dam and to be included in the Yanhee 3Iectricity Authority system (for
which a contract, financed by the Yanhee Electricity Authority, has
already been signed), a feasibility study of irrigation schemes in the
Nan River Valley and the formulation of an agricultural development
program for the rapid introduction of second cropping in the northern
part of the Chao Phya area.  The construction program is expected to
be completed by July 1971, while the studies should be ready by the end
of 1969.
11.       In the Chao Phya area of the Central Plain, agriculture is
comparatively well developed due largely to irrigation distribution
systems developed over the past fifty years. The main crop on about 80
percent of the land during the flood season is rice, while about 10
percent is planted to foodgrains and oilseeds and the remaining 10 percent
is devoted to orchards and gardens.  Earlier projects have improved water
regulation, increased storage capacity and provided a better regulated
water supply for wet season crops.
12.       Agriculture :in the Nan River Valley depends almost entirely on
the flooding of the rivers and tributary systems duiring the rainy season
from mid-Nlay to mid-November.  Production is erratic because of the
limitations imposed by droughts and flooding although yields in this
area are believed to be amongst the best in Thailand for such crops as
rice, peanuts, mung beans, soybeans and sesame.
13.       Deoending on crops grown, the project will permit the irrigation
of an additional 180,0()0 to 400,000 hectares for dry season cropping in
the Chao Phya Area; dry season cropping of about 200,000 hectares and a
dependable supply for wet season cropping of about 400,000 hectares in
the Nan River Valley.
14.       The dam vwoul(d be constructed by contract under international
competitive bidding procedures, and the Bank would be given an opportunity
to review the contract before the award is made.  The Royal Irrigation
Department (RID), which has considerable experience in this type of wirork,
has already carried out some work, partly by contract, on the roads,
bridges and campsites of the project, and will perform a portion of the
excavation for the foundation of the Phasom Dam before the contract is
awarded.  The RID will construct the saddle dams with its own forces.
RID is fully qualified to carry out these works, and will be responsible
for the operation and maintenance of the project.
15.       Procurement for all equipment and supplies financed under the
proposed Bank loan will be on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
16.       The estimated cost of constructing the Phasom Dam and the five
saddle dams, together wzith the cost of equipment and consulting services
will be approximately M1,582 million (US $76.1 mi'lion) of which the
foreign exchange component is US $26 million, excluding interest during



- 6 -
construction, or 34% of the total estimated cost.  The proposed Bank loan
wTould finance less than 40jo of the foreign exchange costs and the Bank of
Thailand something over 60,<;. Local costs wili be financed by budgetary
al'ocations.
17.       For the compnitation of economic benefits, the value of product-
ion was estimated on the basis of world market prices; and on this basis,
the net value of the incremental annual production to the economy from
the Chao Phya area at full development of a minimum of 180,000 hectares would
be about U.S. $24.6 million.  Similarly, when the Nan River Valley is
fully developed, the net benefits to the economy, at world prices, would
amount to U.S. $27.3 million.  The total anu-ual net benefits from the
Chao Phya and -\Tan River Valley areas would therefore be about U.S. $51.9
million.  On the basis of net farm prices - i.e. world prices minus the
rice premium and exporlt tax, and after making allowance for intermediate
expenses the net value of production in the Chao Phya area would be
U.S. $11.6 rmillion, ancl U.S. $12.8 million in the Nlan River Valley.
18.       The average annual net return from the second crop irrigation
of rice in the Chao Phya area alone would range, on the basis of world rice
prices, between 6o and 10, depending on the assumed rate of second crop
development. If the benefits from the expected development in the Dian
River Valley are added, the economic return increases to between 11% and
14h,.  If the second crops in both areas are assumed to be of a higher
value than rice, the return would increase to between 12% and 15%.
Benefits from flood control, navigation, salinity control and power
generation would increase the project returns.
19.       Preliminary studies of the proposed power installation indicate
that power facilities with a capacity of 150-300 MJN at the dam are
possible. It will probably be at least ten years before the full
potential for double cropping is achieved; this will mean that for some
years, it will be possible to regulate the wjater flow with a view to
maximum power production.
PART I]V - LEGAL I-NTSTRUIMETS AND AUTHORITY
20.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and
the Bank, and the Report of the Commi.ttee provided for in Article III
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. The Loan Agreement would conform
to the customary pattern for loans of this type.  Under Section 5.02
of the Loan Agreement, the Government of Thailand would undertake to
"take such action as shall be reasonably required to ensure the most
economic use of the water made available by" the works included in the
'roject "for agricultural development, power generation and flood control."



PART V - THE ECONONLY
21.       An economic report on Thailand (AS 130a), dated June 14, 1967,
is being distributed separately.
22.       The Thai economy continues to develop rapidly.  Annual rates
of growth exceeded 8,- in the years 196§-1966, a significant acceleration
over the pace achieved in the period 1958-1962, when GDP grew by 6.5;Z
a year.  Concurrently, investment rose sharply, from l6? of GDP in 1958
to -2% in 1966.  Savings and export earnings also -went up remarkably,
providing nearly all the additional resources required for the expanslon
of investment and leaving a resources gap of only 61 of total investment.
Capital inflows exceeded the deficit every year since 1958. Thailand
was therefore able to add considerably to its reserves. 1966 saw a
particularly sharp increase in reserves of nearly US t160 million,
bringing the total to IJS f850 million.  This was largely related to the
quickening pace of U.S. military activities in connection wvith operations
in Viet-1,Tam.  It was also in 1966 that for the first time after years of
remarkable stability prices moved up significantly. Although the sharp
rise in the price of rice in the world mlarket was an important contribut-
ing factor, -the increase in the domestic price level probably also
indicated that resources as a whole were becoming short in relation to
the demand placed upon them by large increases in domestic spending.
`3.       Over the next few years, more attention than w:Tas required in
the past will probably need to be given to financial management of the
Thai economy. Large increases in public spending are envisaged in the
Government's plans.  The possibility exists of a sharp rise in defense
outlays. Private investment is likely to continue expanding. Altogether,
the potential exists for a considerable amount of excess demand to develop,
particularly in the irmiediate future when U.S. military expenditures are
likely to generate sizeable additional pressures. Over the next year
or two, present indications are that Thailand's exchange receipts will
continue to rise.  Thus Thailand could well afford to let higher imports
absorb some excess demand. However, it would also seem prudent to
translate part of the increase in earnings into additions to exchange
reserves so that in later years, when earnings are less buoyant, they
car. be drawn upon as a supplementary source of finance. To this end,
overall expenditures will have to be kept within certain limits.  It
no-wi appears that these wnill be wide enough to enable Thailand to make
available for economic growith all the resources required and still
provide substantially larger amounts towards other purposes, although
not as much as envisaged in present plans for Governnent spending,
particularly in the immediate future.
2.4.      In other fields of econormic policyg no major changes seem
required although there will be a continuing need to adapt policies to
changing economic circumstances. Thus it seems that in agriculture
the emphasis of policies and programs should shift towards supporting
a move into more intensive use of existing land and wiater resources.  In



- 8 -
-nanufacturing, a change in the Government's promotion policy, designed
to direct the course of future development away from light, assembly-
type operations and to-wards more integrated units in areas where
Thailand can expect to be able to manufacture goods at compe-titive prices,
is already underway. In education, a great deal more than in the past
needs to be done to meet the requirements of sustained rapid economic
development over the longer run, particularly at the secondary and
university levels. In the field of transportation, it seems that develop-
ment of the road system is approaching the point where greater attention
needs to be given to questions of coordination and proper pricing.
5.      (On grounds of present and expected economic performance, Thailand
is without question creditiyorthy for substantial additional borrowring
abroad on conventional terms and can make good use of loans from official
sources abroad. However, present expectations are tha't, even w-ithout
major new borrowzing, Thailand shouid be able to add considerably to its
exchange reserves in 1.967 and 1968. The Bank's presenit lending pdlicy
towards Thailand is, therefore, to limit its net contribution to a small
share of the foreign exchange cost of projects, while the Thai authorities
will provide the bulk of the funds required, in part by committing
exchange out of official reserves.  The financing arrangements for the
operation proposed in this report reflects this approach. As for the
longer term future, considerable uncertainty surrounds any estimate of
Thai and's need to borrow abroad on public account. If present expecta-
tions materialize, merchandise export wil2 grow somelwhat more slowly
than. in recent years and earnings from U.S. activities in Thailand will
dirminish.  Domestically, public out?.ays are likely to continue rising
strongly and, in addition, private investment may wel. expand fast.  Thus,
a situation cou'd arise where Thailand's external financing needs exceed
the amount that could be covered by private capital inflow and prudent
use of exchange reserves so that more cauital will have to be obtained
on public account.  However, this is nowT impossible to predict with
any certainty; more conclusive evidence may be avai.lable early next
year when Tnailand's prospects will be re-appraised.
PART VI - COTT.P -IANC E WITH ARTICLES OF AGIREEIENT
-6.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the
requirermients of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RMOiŽMEDATION
27.       I recormmend that the DEecutive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOT.UTIOiN MO.
Approval of a loan to the Kingdom of Thailand (Phasom Dam.
Project) in the amount of the equivalent of U.S. $26,000,000.



-9
RFSOT VED:
That the Bank shall grant a loan to the Kingdom of Thailand
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty six million
United States dollars (U.S. $26,000,000), to mature on and prior to
August 15, `987, to bear interest at the rate of six percent (6,5) per
annum and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be
substantial y in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in
the form of the oan Agreement (Phasom Dam Project) between the Kingdom
of Thailand and the Barnk w.ihich has been presented to this meeting.
George D. -W.Joods
President
IJashington, D. C.
June 29, 1967



