                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR2763



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IDA-40640 IDA-44880 IDA-49040)



                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT


  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR9.9 MILLION, SDR 3.1 MILLION, SDR 6.4 MILLION

       (US$15 MILLION, US$5 MILLION, US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF CABO VERDE

                                   FOR A

                       ROAD SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT



                                 May 28, 2014




Africa Transport
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2013)
                            Currency Unit   =   CVE
                             83.579 CVE     =   US$1
                             US$1.53057     =   SDR 1

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1  –   December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB     African Development Bank
AF       Additional Financing
ARAP     Abbreviated Resettlement Plans
BADEA    Arab Bank for Economic Development
BOQ      Bill of Quantity
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCE      Conselho Consultivo de Estradas – Road Consultative Council
CVE      Cabo Verde Escudos
CV-FMR   Fundo de Manutenção Rodoviária – Road Maintenance Fund
DFID     Department for International Development (UK)
DGISB    General Directorate of Infrastructure and Basic Sanitation
DGTR     General Directorate of Road Transport Services
ECV      Escudos de Cabo Verde – Currency of Cabo Verde
EIS      Environment Impact Study
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
EU       European Union
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
FMR      Fundo de Manutenção Rodoviária – Road Maintenance Fund
GEP      Directorate of Planning
GMANS    Gestão e Manutenção por Nivel de Serviço – Performance-Based Maintenance Contracts
GPOBA    Global Partnership for Output-Based Aid
GPRSP    Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
GoCV     Government of Cabo Verde
HDM4     Highway Design Standards Model
IE       Instituto de Estradas – Road Agency
IDA      International Development Association
IGOPP    General Inspectorate of Public and Private Construction Works
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
ITP      Infrastructure and Transport Project
LEC      Civil Engineering Laboratory
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MCC      Millennium Challenge Corporation (USA)
MIT      Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport
MTR      Mid Term Review
MIEM     Ministério de Infraestrutura e Economia Maritima – Ministry Maritime Economy and
         Infrastructure
NPV      Net Present Value Performance-Based Maintenance Contracts
PBC      Performance-Base Maintenance Contracts
PCO      Project Coordination Office
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
RA       Road Agency (also referred to as Instituto de Estradas)
RED      Roads Economic Decision Model
RMF      Road Maintenance Fund
RSSP     Road Sector Support Project
SIL      Sector Lending Instrument
SSATP   Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program
TSRP    Transport Sector Reform Project
TSS     Transport Sector Strategy
VOC     Vehicle Operating Costs
VPD     Vehicles Per Day




                          Vice President:      Makhtar Diop
               Country Manager/Director:       Vera Songwe
                         Sector Director:      Jamal Saghir
                         Sector Manager:       Supee Teravaninthorn
                      Task Team Leader:        Pierre Graftieaux
                       ICR Team Leader:        Jose Domingos Diogo Lopes Chembeze
                                        REPUBLIC OF CABO VERDE
                                         Road Sector Support Project

                                                     CONTENTS



Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 19
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 34
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 36
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................... 39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 40
MAP- São Vicente ............................................................................................................ 41
MAP- São Nicolau ............................................................................................................ 42
MAP- São Tiago ............................................................................................................... 43
MAP- Maio ....................................................................................................................... 44
                                       DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                           CV Road Sector
Country:                Cabo Verde               Project Name:
                                                                           Support Project
                                                                           IDA-40640,IDA-
Project ID:             P087004                  L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                           44880,IDA-49040
ICR Date:               05/28/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           REPUBLIC OF CAPE
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           VERDE
Original Total
                        XDR 9.90M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 19.08M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 19.08M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Telecommunication
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/18/2003      Effectiveness:             08/09/2005        08/09/2005
                                                                                   06/26/2008
Appraisal:            02/07/2005      Restructuring(s):
                                                                                   04/05/2011
Approval:             05/19/2005      Mid-term Review:           02/18/2008        02/18/2008
                                      Closing:                   08/31/2010        06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:      Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     33                   33
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                              67                   67


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               33                   33
Infrastructure services for private sector development                33                   33
Rural services and infrastructure                                     17                   17
Trade facilitation and market access                                  17                   17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Vera Songwe                          Madani M. Tall
Sector Manager:            Supee Teravaninthorn                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
Project Team Leader:       Pierre Graftieaux                    Gylfi Palsson
                           Jose Domingos Diogo Lopes
ICR Team Leader:
                           Chembeze
                           Jose Domingos Diogo Lopes
ICR Primary Author:
                           Chembeze
                           Papa Mamadou Fall

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The proposed Credit will enhance the Borrower's road sector Management. This will be
achieved through: (i) institutional reform of the road sector and improved functioning of
related civil works markets; and (ii) better access to social and economic opportunities
due to improved mobility for affected populations.

                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was reformulated to the following: "to increase the mobility of the population
in targeted areas and improve the planning and financing of the road sector".

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally          Actual Value
                                            Values (from          Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                               approval            Target         Completion or
                                              documents)           Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Roads in good and fair condition as a share of total classified roads (%)
Value
quantitative or 58                          50                                  50
Qualitative)
Date achieved 2000                          06/30/2013                          06/30/2013
                100% achieved. The 58% Baseline Value was an overly optimistic estimate from
Comments
                the year 2000 when a proper road condition inventory had not yet been
(incl. %
                undertaken. The Indicator was then assessed at 41% in 2010. This core indicator
achievement)
                is somewhat redundant.
                Economically justified roads: Reduction in vehicle operating costs, as reflected in
Indicator 2 :
                ex-post project economic analysis.
Value
                Ex ante IRR > 12% as        Ex post IRR >
quantitative or                                                                 Ex post IRR< 12%
                appraised and per PAD 12%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/22/2005                    06/30/2013                          06/30/2013
                The ex-post IRR for Ribeira Brava – Tarrafal and Praia – Cidade Velha are lower
Comments
                than the ex-ante IRR and below 12% (respectively 5 a 11 percent) Vehicle
(incl. %
                Operating Cost was not monitored, nonetheless, there was on average a decrease
achievement)
                in transport costs of approximately 20 percent. .
                Socially justified roads: Mobility ratio: an increase in the percentage of adult
Indicator 3 : population in affected communities who made at least 5 trips during the previous
                month.
Value
quantitative or 38.7                        50                                  86
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/22/2005                    12/30/2011                          12/30/2011
Comments        This indicator exceeds the target. Data collected in mid-2012 and included in the
(incl. %        report "Análise dos impactes económicos e socias das estradas reabilitadas ou
achievement) melhoradas através do RSSP", dated September 2012, final version, page 16.
                Socially justified roads: Travel time ratio: a decrease in the percentage of the
Indicator 4 : population in affected communities that take more than 30 minutes to reach the
                nearest market.
Value
quantitative or 44.8                        40                                  21
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/22/2005                    12/30/2011                          12/30/2011
Comments        This indicator exceeds the target. Data collected in mid-2012 and included in the
(incl. %        report "Análise dos impactes económicos e socias das estradas reabilitadas ou
achievement) melhoradas através do RSSP", dated September 2012, final version, page 17.
                Socially justified roads: Comparative travel cost ratio: a reduction in the
Indicator 5 :
                percentage differential between the composite cost/km/kg on the Project's
                                                iii
                  socially and economically justified roads.
Value
quantitative or   57                         28                  Dropped
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/22/2005                  12/30/2011
Comments          Dropped because it was difficult both to measure. Nonetheless, transport costs,
(incl. %          which reflects the same notion as this indicator, dropped significantly (up to 63
achievement)      percent) in the project affected area, objective has been reached.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                  approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                Road Maintenance Fund (RMF). A Second Generation RMF is created. The
Indicator 1 :
                RMF establishes and manages annual road maintenance budgets.
                                                               RMF budget
                                                               of CVE 350 RMF budget of
Value
                                            RMF created and million            CVE 450 million
(quantitative   No RMF in place
                                            functioning        (US$ 4.2        (US$ 5.4 million
or Qualitative)
                                                               million         equivalent)
                                                               equivalent)
Date achieved 04/22/2005                    08/31/2010         04/04/2011      06/30/2013
                Over achieved. More specifically, decree 33/2005 of July 25, created the RMF.
Comments
                The Decree 16/2008 of July 2, establish the "Road Maintenance Levy". The
(incl. %
                RMF has been created and is functioning well with about 550 million CVE,
achievement)
                US$ 6.6 million equivalent.
                Road Agency: (a) completes National Road Plan; (b) submits to the RMF annual
Indicator 2 : road network maintenance plans; (c) implements annual road network
                maintenance plans.
Value
                Road Agency not             Road Agency not
(quantitative                                                                  Done since 2012
                functioning                 functioning
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/22/2005                    08/31/2010                         06/30/2013
Comments
                Successfully achieved. (a) National Road plan completed; (b) and (c) done
(incl. %
                annually in 100%.
achievement)
                Civil Engineering Laboratory (LEC) increases its professional staffing level by at
Indicator 3 : least 2; and achieves financial self-sufficiency of at least 50% for its operational
                costs related to testing and training.
Value                                       50% operational                    At least 50%
(quantitative   None                        cost recovery      Dropped         operational cost
or Qualitative)                             achieved                           recovery achieved.
Date achieved 04/22/2005                    06/30/2010         04/05/2011      06/30/2010
Comments        Successfully achieved. Staffing increased by 2 end of 2007. Financial self-
(incl. %        sufficiency of 50% of operational costs achieved in 2010. Goal was met and so
achievement) no more needed after the approval of the second Additional Financing.
                General Inspectorate of Public and Private Works (IGOPP): (a) increases its
Indicator 4 : professional staffing level by at least 2; (b) Statutes and regulations and works
                standards are revised; (c) implements annual work plan.

                                                  iv
Value
(quantitative   None                        Completed            Dropped         Completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/22/2005                    06/30/2010           04/05/2011      06/30/2010
                Achieved. (a) 2 additional staff hired; (b) statutes and regulations revision
Comments
                completed, and; (c) annually prepared. All completed in 2008. This target was
(incl. %
                met but it was no more needed because the IGOPP was not involved in project
achievement)
                implementation.
                General Directorate of Infrastructure and Basic Sanitation (DGISB) implements
Indicator 5 : all contracts under its responsibility within 15% the planned execution period
                and within budget.
Value
                                            Partially
(quantitative   None                                             Dropped         Partially Completed
                                            Completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/22/2005                    06/30/2010           04/05/2011      06/30/2010
                Dropped due to changes in the implementing arrangements and the DGISB was
Comments
                replaced by Road Institute as the implementation unit of the IDA-financed
(incl. %
                works. It's relevant to note that before the restructuring, costs overruns exceeded
achievement)
                15% but that the last three contracts did not have cost overruns.
                Studies and Planning Unit (GEP): Quarterly and annual reports are produced by
Indicator 6 : the various MIT services for use in ministerial planning based on a data base and
                associated management information system.
Value
(quantitative   None                        Completed            Dropped         Completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/22/2005                    06/30/2010           04/05/2011      06/30/2010
                Successfully Achieved. This indicator was streamlined/reworded at restructuring
Comments
                and became "Quarterly and annual reports are produced" in the road sector. The
(incl. %
                IE in coordination with the PIU did produce quarterly and annual reports shared
achievement)
                with the Bank.
                Program Coordination Office (PCO) reports annually on the Road Sector;
Indicator 7 :
                manages RSSP activities in conformance with legal and fiduciary requirements.
Value
(quantitative   None                        Completed            Dropped         Completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/22/2005                    06/30/2010           04/05/2011      06/30/2010
Comments        Dropped due to “this Indicator relates to project management and should not be
(incl. %        part of the Result Framework.” It is worth noting that the PCO did comply with
achievement) that obligation until the end of the project. Successfully Achieved.
                Roads rehabilitated: Maio - no. 6 Alcatraz-Figueira (9 km); São Nicolau - no.7
Indicator 8 : Ribeira Brava-Tarrafal (26 km); São Vicente - no. 10 Salamansa Intersection-
                Baia do Norte (3 km).
Value
(quantitative   None                        41 km                53.4            53.4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/22/2005                    11/02/2011           04/05/2011      06/30/2013
Comments        Maio - no. 6 Alcatraz-Figueira (9 km), São Nicolau - no.7 Ribeira Brava-
(incl. %        Tarrafal (26 km), São Vicente - no. 10 Salamansa Intersection-Baia do Norte (3
achievement) km): The 41 km road rehabilitation completed.



                                                 v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                         IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1   11/08/2005                                                                   2.45
  2   05/16/2006         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     3.99
  3   12/22/2006         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     5.37
  4   06/27/2007         Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory              9.56
  5   12/13/2007         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   11.43
  6   05/23/2008         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   13.19
  7   12/17/2008         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   17.02
  8   06/06/2009         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   19.56
  9   06/29/2009         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   19.56
 10   12/07/2009         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   19.71
 11   06/10/2010         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   19.76
 12   04/12/2011         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   19.81
 13   12/21/2011         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   19.89
 14   06/12/2012         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   21.88
 15   12/15/2012         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   23.49
 16   05/27/2013         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   29.21


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     First Additional Financing of
                                                     US$ 5 million to support cost
                                                     overrun of the original roads
 06/26/2008               S       S          13.19   contracts arising due to
                                                     deficient design, change on road
                                                     design and standards as well as
                                                     increase of cost of inputs.
                                                     Second Additional Financing in
                                                     the approximate amount of
                                                     US$15 million to consolidate
                                                     the achievements of the road
                                                     sector reforms through
                                                     additional support to the Road
 04/05/2011       N       S       S          19.81   Institute and the FMR, and also
                                                     to scale up the impacts of the
                                                     road investment program in
                                                     terms of accessibility coverage
                                                     by incorporate another 12.4 km
                                                     of roads to the project. Follow
                                                     the recommendations of MTR,

                                         vi
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     streamlining the monitoring and
                                                     evaluation framework.

I. Disbursement Profile




                                        vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     Economic situation at appraisal. At the time of appraisal in 2005 Cabo Verde
had a population of 480,000 and a gross national income (GNI) per capita of US$1,690.
In 2002 the overall poverty rate for the country was estimated at 37 percent, with a
poverty rate of 51.3 percent in rural areas and 24.5 percent in urban areas.

2.      Transport sector. The road network consisted of 1,350 km spread among the
nine inhabited islands, out of the ten islands of the archipelago. These relatively small
island networks were characterized by: (i) major roads (often a “ring road” around the
island) which extended from each island’s principal port and/or airport to municipalities
and served many small towns and rural communities; (ii) secondary roads which served
smaller ports and fishing and agricultural communities farther off the main axes; and (iii)
municipal town roads and tracks leading to very small communities or homesteads. Cabo
Verde had three international airports (Praia, Boa Vista, and Sal), seven airfields and one
national airline. Cabo Verde had two major ports: Mindelo and Praia.

3.      Road sub-sector. At the time of appraisal, due to inadequate maintenance, certain
sections of the road network in each island had deteriorated, while in other cases lack of
investment had left the basic network incomplete. Furthermore, the absence of complete
and reliable island road networks constituted a serious constraint to development for
Cabo Verde. The road sub-sector was characterized by the absence of a dedicated road
management agency, while responsibilities for managing various portions of the network
were not clear. There was no systematic program for maintenance, which was frequently
postponed in the face of competing priorities. All road works (investment and
maintenance) were managed by the General Directorate of Infrastructures and Basic
Sanitation (DGISB) in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport (MIT), who was
responsible for all publicly funded civil works in the country. The official road
classification system, which dated to the colonial period, had never been officially
updated to account for administrative and physical changes in the country.

4.       Sector policies and plans. Reducing the geographical gap and improving
accessibility by means of an affordable and dependable transportation network
connecting the rural areas to markets and urban centers, along with the improvement of
inter-island transport, was crucial to Cabo Verdean growth and national integration
strategic objectives. In the road sector, these objectives were to be achieved through a
balanced approach to completing the rehabilitation of the core road network and
increasing access for rural populations, accompanied by consolidation of institutional
capacity for planning, implementation and management of road investments and
maintenance.

5.   The Government of Cabo Verde (GoCV), with the support of the donor
community, undertook a comprehensive institutional reform and capacity building



                                            1
program 1 to ensure rational planning, sustainable maintenance and delivery of transport
services. This led to: (a) the establishment of a Road Agency (Instituto de Estrada – IE)
in 2004; and (b) the creation of a second generation Road Maintenance Fund in 2005 to
finance only programmed routine/periodic maintenance and annual emergency works.

6.      The Project. The Road Sector Support Project (RSSP) was primarily designed to
support the above-mentioned reforms by improving the management of the road sub-
sector. It was also designed to support the GoCV in its attempt to remedy the absence of a
complete and reliable island road networks. The total estimated cost of the project at
appraisal was about US$17.48 million of which US$15.0 would be funded by IDA while
the balance would be funded by GoCV. In support of the investment program of RSSP,
the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) was to provide about US$22.0 million in
parallel financing to fund road works in the islands of Santiago and Santo Antão while
the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) fund was committed to
finance about US$3.0 million of road works in the island of São Nicolau.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.      The PDO. The Project Development Objective as stated in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) was to enhance the Borrower's road sector Management. This was to
be achieved through: (i) institutional reform of the road sector and improved functioning
of related civil works markets; and (ii) better access to social and economic opportunities
due to improved mobility for affected populations.

8.     The PDO was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated
January, 2005 2, which identified improved and sustainable coverage of infrastructure and
provision of social services as key priorities.

9.   Key Indicators of Performance. The key performance indicators are
summarized in the table below.

                                   Table 1: Key Performance Indicators

                                                                       Key Indicators
       Specific objective
                                                       Original                           Restructured
Institutional reform of the road sector   Asset value of the national road       Asset value of the national road
/ To improve the planning and             network                                network




1
  This strategy had its origins in the Government’s Strategic Program for Infrastructure and Land Use, submitted to the
Consultation Meeting with Development Partners in Praia April 2003, and adopted as part of the National Development
Plan as issued by the Government in August 2003.




2
    IDA/Report No. 30941-CV




                                                            2
financing of the road sector                                                           Roads in good and fair condition as a
                                                                                       share of total classified roads
Better access to social and economic    Mobility ratio                                 Mobility ratio
opportunities; improved mobility / To   Travel time ratio                              Travel time ratio
increase mobility                       Travel cost ratio
                                        Intermediate outcome indicators
                                        A Second Generation RMF is created. The        A Second Generation RMF is created. The
                                        RMF establishes and manages annual road        RMF establishes and manages annual road
                                        maintenance budgets.                           maintenance budgets.
                                        Road Agency: (a) completes National            Road Agency: (a) completes National
                                        Road Plan; (b) submits to the RMF annual       Road Plan; (b) submits to the RMF annual
                                        road network maintenance plans; (c)            road network maintenance plans; (c)
                                        implements annual road network                 implements annual road network
                                        maintenance plans                              maintenance plans
                                        Civil Engineering Laboratory (LEC)
                                        increases its professional staffing level by
                                        at least 2; and achieves financial self-
                                        sufficiency of at least 50% for its
                                        operational costs related to testing and
Institutional reform of the road        training.
sector; Improved functioning of road    General Inspectorate of Public and Private
                                        Works (IGOPP): (a) increases its
related civil works markets / To        professional staffing level by at least 2;
improve the planning and financing      (b) Statutes and regulations and works
of the road sector                      standards are revised; (c) implements
                                        annual work plan
                                        General Directorate of Infrastructure and
                                        Basic Sanitation (DGISB) implements all
                                        contracts under its responsibility within
                                        15% the planned execution period and
                                        within budget.
                                        Studies and Planning Unit (GEP):
                                        Quarterly and annual reports are produced
                                        by the various MIT services
                                        Program Coordination Office (PCO)
                                        reports annually on the Road Sector;
                                        manages RSSP activities in conformance
                                        with legal and fiduciary requirements
Better access to social and economic
opportunities; improved mobility / To   Roads rehabilitated                            Roads rehabilitated
increase mobility



1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

10.      The wording of the PDO was streamlined as result of the project’s second
additional financing approved in April 05, 2011 (see paragraph 17) to better emphasize
the objectives pursued by the project in terms of institutional capacity and road
investment. The streamlined PDO reads as follows: “to increase the mobility of the
population in targeted areas and improve the planning and financing of the road sector”.
Although the PDO was reworded, the design of the project was not modified, and all the
initially planned activities were maintained.




                                                              3
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11.     The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) did not explicitly identify project
beneficiaries. However, it is clear that the populations of the islands of Maio, São
Nicolau, and São Vicente, which have a combined population of about 95,000 inhabitants
(about 20 percent of the country’s population), were to directly benefit from improved
accessibility as a result of the project’s road rehabilitation program. Furthermore, the
population at large was to benefit from the outcome of institutional activities supported
by the project.

1.5 Original Components

12.     The project consisted of two components: (a) Institutional Support; and (b)
Rehabilitation of Road Infrastructure. IDA joined with other donors in financing a
package of sector reforms, capacity building and civil works to enhance management and
meet priority needs of the road network. IDA took the leading role in the institutional
aspects, particularly road management, and under Component 2 of the project, financed
selected road works to fill priority road rehabilitation gaps not covered by other donors or
domestic resources.

13.     Component 1: Institutional Support. Support to GoCV’s efforts in reforming
management of the road sector through: (a) support to Road Sector Program Coordination
Office (PCO), for the management of the project and overall road and transport sector
coordination; (b) technical assistance and capacity building to the Road Agency (IE) and
Road Maintenance Fund (CV-FMR), with a focus on establishing capacity, methods and
procedures for road network management and securing adequate financing for road
maintenance and annual emergency works; (c) assistance to Civil Engineering Laboratory
of Cabo Verde (LEC), aimed at meeting the country’s growing need for construction
testing facilities, related training and research; (d) assistance to the General Inspectorate
of Public and Private Works (IGOPP), aimed at meeting the need to reinforce capacity to
regulate civil works; (e) assistance to support project monitoring, evaluation and other
sector management needs as they arise to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport in
particular through the following Units: (i) General Directorate of Infrastructure & Basic
Sanitation (DGISB), aimed at improving DGISB’s capacity to procure and manage road
and other infrastructure projects, (ii) Studies and Planning Unit (GEP), focused on
establishing a functioning information management system for the MIT, ; and (f) support
for the implementation of pilot road maintenance and management contracts financed by
the FMR.

14.     Component 2: Road Infrastructure. Support to GoCV’s priority road network
improvement program through: (a) rehabilitation of the Alcatraz - Figueira road (9 km)
on the island of Maio; (b) rehabilitation of the Ribeira Brava – Tarrafal road (26 km) on
the island of Santo Antão; and (c) rehabilitation of the Salamansa – Norte de Baia road (3
km) on the island of São Vicente.




                                             4
1.6 Revised Components

15.     As a result of processing the Second Additional Financing (AF2) in 2011 (see
paragraph 17), the following activities were added to Component 2 to scale up the
project’s impact: (a) rehabilitation of about 6 km of the Praia - Cidade Velha road; (b)
rehabilitation of about 6.4 km of rural roads on the island of Santiago using labor based
techniques; and (c) design and supervision of works.

1.7 Other significant changes

16.    First Additional Financing (Cr. 4488-CV). An Additional Financing (AF) (Cr.
4488-CV) in the amount of US$5.0 million was granted in June 26, 2008 to cover the
cost overruns of the originally appraised activities (see paragraphs 25, 26, 27). The first
AF became effective on September 15, 2008, and the total IDA credit amount was
revised to US$20 million. The closing date was extended by 10 months, from September
1, 2010 to June 30, 2011 to allow for utilization of additional funds.

17.     Second Additional Financing (Cr. 4904-CV). An AF2 in the amount of US$10.0
million was approved on April 5, 2011 to scale up the impacts of the project. The purpose
of AF2 was to consolidate the achievements of the road sector reforms through additional
support to the IE and the FMR, and also to scale up the impacts of the road investment
program in terms of accessibility and coverage. The results framework was fine-tuned to
better capture the essence of the streamlined PDO (see paragraph 38). The closing date
was extended by 24 months, from July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2013 to accommodate the
additional resources for the project. There were no changes to the financial management,
procurement and implementation arrangements.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

18.     The project was fully consistent with the CAS and supported the CAS objectives
of: (a) maintaining an efficient, effective and accountable public sector; (b) enhancing the
competitiveness of infrastructure; and (c) improving the growth potential of the rural
sector. The project design was based on the consultations/findings and recommendations
with various stakeholders in the sectors initiated since the mid-1990s under the
Infrastructure and Transport Program (ITP) 3 and strengthened through the GoCV’s
participation in the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program (SSATP).

19.   The RSSP was prepared in a participatory manner and had strong ownership from
GoCV. Consultations also took place with other donors involved in the transport sector in


3
    Credit Nos. IDA-24660 and IDA-24661




                                             5
Cabo Verde to ensure a coherent approach in reforming land transport. The project design
was sound and simple, and drew relevant lessons from past experiences in the road sector
in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) .

20.     The project design adopted a number of relevant lessons learned in Cabo Verde
from implementing the ITP, from sector projects in similar countries and from the
SSATP road policy work such as: (a) the application of purely economic investment
criteria is not sufficient for securing minimum access requirements, in support of
economic development and poverty reduction activities, particularly on small island
networks and in remote areas; (b) the technical approach for road management reflected
Cabo Verde’s successful and cost-effective approach for lower volume roads of using
basalt cobblestones, which are in abundance throughout the country and are labor
intensive in their application to road construction; (c) physical investment must be
accompanied by viable maintenance management and sustainable finance arrangements
to ensure the sustainability of such investments. In this regard, past experience in Cabo
Verde had shown that without a dedicated agency for road management, the requisite
standard of service needed to support economic development and poverty reduction
objectives could not be achieved.

21.     At project preparation, a risk analysis was carried out and the mitigation measures
were correctly identified. The reversal in GoCV’s commitment to implement the reforms
in the road sector was perceived as a risk and was adequately mitigated through close
supervision and advocacy. However, the project did not adequately address the risk of
poor quality engineering cost estimates that should have been based on realistic market
prices.

22.     The RSSP is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory in terms of quality at entry due to
the deficiencies recorded in the technical design (project preparation) of the road works
as described in paragraphs 25 and 26 below. The poor quality of the designs was the
primary cause of the cost overruns which necessitated the mobilization of more funds
through the first additional financing.

2.2 Implementation

23.    Shortly after the signing of contracts, errors in the Bill of Quantity (BOQ) 4 were
discovered for the civil works in Maio Island and major errors and deficiencies in the
conceptual designs for the road works in São Vicente and São Nicolau Islands.
Furthermore, the initial cobblestone wearing course was upgraded to asphalt on the


4
  After the start of the works, a review made by the Supervision Consultants and Contractors, and
confirmed by the Independent Engineer, led to the conclusion that a major mistake occurred during the
design’s calculations: the quantities of earth works were dramatically underestimated and design standards
were not applied in some cases, leading to significant price increases.




                                                    6
grounds of: (a) unavailability of trained manpower for the production of cobblestones;
and (b) use by contractors of more modern construction technology. This issue has been
observed in other roads rehabilitation financed by other financiers.

24.      The above mentioned issues caused the adoption of higher design standards than
initially appraised for the roads to be financed under the RSSP which led to a significant
increase in the cost of the road component. More specifically: (a) all roads were upgraded
to asphaltic pavement standards; (b) a 6 km (5 km at appraisal) long section of branch
road of the Ribeira Brava-Tarrafal road (Fajã de Baixo to Cachaco) had to receive an
additional protective layer of bituminous coarse graded aggregate base course 8
centimeters thick; and (c) all roads were eventually constructed with a carriageway width
of 6 meters and 0.5 meter wide shoulders on both sides as per the existing national design
standards 5.

25.     By 2008, unit costs of road construction in Cabo Verde had recorded a 60 percent
increase since the time of appraisal in February 2005, due to a sharp increase in fuel
prices following the increase in crude oil prices from an average of US$30 per barrel in
2004 to over US$100 per barrel in 2006/2007 and for other critical construction inputs
such as cement, bitumen, diesel, etc. As a direct and indirect consequence of the increase
in oil prices, the total cost of the road component went up by an average of 104 percent
broken down as follows: (a) an about 66 percent increase in road works costs for the
Figueira da Horta – Alcatraz road on Maio Island; (b) an about 80.0 percent increase in
the costs of road works for the Ribeira Brava – Tarrafal road on São Nicolau Island; and
(c) an about 167 percent increase in the road works cost for the Norte de Baia –
Salamansa on São Vicente Island. The about 167 percent increase in the road
rehabilitation in São Vicente is much influenced by the substantial changes in the
conceptual design, which was not only on the pavement, from cobblestone to asphalt, but
also in the road cross-section to meet the in use national standards.

26.     Under the RSSP, a pilot program (first package) of 6 Performance Based
Maintenance Contracts (PBC) was launched in September 2006 in three of the more
mountainous islands of the archipelago (Santiago, Santo Antão and Fogo). The contracts
together covered about 21 percent of Cabo Verde’s road network (285 km). The PBC
contracts were for durations ranging from 36 months (four of the contracts) to 60 months
(for the remaining two). In October 2010, five more PBC contracts which had duration of
27 months each covered a total of 547 kms of the Cabo Verde’s road network (38
percent) in the islands of Santiago, São Nicolau, Santo Antão and Fogo. All PBCs,
which are currently covering 45 percent of the total road network, have been financed by
the Road Maintenance Fund.




5
 The roads that were selected for rehabilitation under the project were either earth road passable only by a
bullock carts (in Maio and São Vicente islands) or roads with cobblestone pavement in poor conditions,
with road width varying from 4 to 5 meters.



                                                     7
27.     The responsibility for roads works supervision and contract management still
remained until 2008 with DGISB (within the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport)
which had critical technical capacity issues. Indeed, the poor quality of roads design
which resulted in major costs overruns and extension of completion dates for the road
works contracts flagged, were a clear indication of the institutional weaknesses of DGISB
regarding the leadership, the coordination and the quality control of detailed engineering
studies. Furthermore, the overlapping responsibilities between Instututo de Estradas IE
(Road Agency) and DGISB created confusion and the road sector could not reach the
necessary economies of scale without consolidation of capital investments and
maintenance responsibilities under one single agency (IE). Also, the staffing level of the
agencies in the road sector, especially IE and Laboratório de Engenharia Civil (LEC)
was a key concern throughout the implementation of the project. Given the competition
of the private sector and the scarcity of trained engineers in Cabo Verde, the road sector
agencies encountered major challenges in recruiting and retaining qualified staff,
especially road engineers and transport economists for the newly established IE. Transfer
of staffs from the DGISB to IE did not materialize as DGISB’s staff remained within the
Ministry to work on other infrastructure projects under DGISB’s responsibility.

28.     Mid Term Review and processing of AF. The World Bank conducted a Mid
Term Review (MTR) of the project in February 2008 during which the Bank team and
the GoCV carried out an overall review of the road sector institutions. The MTR was a
positive milestone as it adopted an action plan to resolve some of the key issues affecting
project implementation. Furthermore, as a result of the MTR, an AF of US$ 5 million to
the project was processed and approved in June 26, 2008 to support the completion of the
three roads originally appraised in view of cost overruns arising from the major
deficiencies in project design, change on technical specifications and the increase of unit
costs of inputs.

29.    Shortly after MTR, implementation of the fuel levy6 was delayed due to political
opposition and the GoCV was under pressure to identify additional resources to close the
maintenance funding gap. In January 2009, the fuel levy was re-introduced after a
successful stakeholder consultative process. Since 2009, it has generated approximately
ECV300 million (US$3.8 million equivalent) annually. The aggregated amount levied in
2013 is ECV 550 million, US$ 6.6 million equivalent.

30.      In 2009 the Government was considering a legislation to convert all “institutes” to
“public enterprises”. This would have implied a restructuring of the Road Fund as per the
new public enterprise status. This change would have had implications for the
institutional reforms agreed under the RSSP. The World Bank requested additional
information on the planned changes in order to better understand the implications for the
road sector institutions. At the end, the new legislation was not applied to the road sector.


6
 The legislation establishing the fuel levy, a user charge, to finance maintenance of the road network was
passed by Parliament in January 14, 2008 and a fuel levy of ECV 7 per liter (Decree 16/2008, of July 2)
was instituted.



                                                     8
31.    Processing of AF2. An AF2 in the amount of US$10.0 million was approved by
the Board on April 5, 2011, to consolidate the sector reforms and scale up the
implementation of works which were expected to support the economic recovery process.
As part of the AF2, the PDO for the project was streamlined to facilitate its attainment
and some of the indicators adjusted to reflect the reality in the country.

32.     The AF2 included the rehabilitation of the road from Praia do Cidade Velha. The
contract for the rehabilitation of 6 km did not have cost overruns. However, a 14.9%
variation order was approved to include additional works to improve the cobblestone
access road to Cidade Velha. Asphalt could not be used since Cidade Velha is classified
by UNESCO as world heritage and such rehabilitation was not part of the initial contract.

33.     In 2011, the World Bank team was informed that the two rural roads to be
rehabilitated under the AF2: Ribeira Principal, and Ribeira de São Miguel, were going to
be impacted by the recent decision of the Ministry of Agriculture to construct agricultural
dams in the project area. In replacement of the initially planned roads, the GoCV came up
with the following alternative: (a) rehabilitation of the 2.4 km Ponta de Talho – Igreja
road in the same municipality (São Miguel); and (b) rehabilitation of a 4 km stretch of
Ribeira Principal Road not impacted by the construction of the dam. The Bank team
assessed the relevance of the GoCV’s proposals and confirmed its consistency with the
AF2’s objective in terms of rural accessibility. As a result of the lessons learned, the two
substitute roads did not face any cost overruns.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

34.     M&E Design and Implementation. The M&E design included twenty indicators
most of which were relevant to capture the essence of the PDO. However, the description
of some of them was unclear. Some indicators were more relevant for measuring the
performance of project management than the attainment of the PDO. The MTR and the
second Additional Financing included a simplification of the monitoring and evaluation
framework. Some indicators were dropped and new ones added, and the targets for most
of the dropped indicators had already been achieved so monitoring them was no longer
needed.

35.     In 2011, the results framework was updated to take into account the additional
kilometers of inter-urban and rural roads to be rehabilitated under the AF2. A few of the
project outcome indicators were reworded as well to better capture the logic and results
of the proposed intervention.

36.    M&E Utilization. Great efforts were made to measure and monitor the indicators,
and data were collected for all indicators. Data collection was done in the field in the
second half of 2012 and aggregated at the Project Coordination Office. The methodology
used to collect the indicators was the same as in 2005. The households to be surveyed
were randomly picked in the same villages which had been surveyed to establish the
baseline. Young students were hired, trained and given forms to fill during the interview



                                             9
process with villagers, and supervised by coordinators. 505 households were surveyed,
the same number as in 2005 7 . The collected data on the indicators was fully and
systematically utilized in the preparation of quarterly reports and served as a basis for the
World Bank’s assessment of project implementation and achievement of project
development objectives.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

37.     Environment and Social issues. The project was rated as Environmental
Category B. Before project appraisal, an Environmental Impact Study (EIS) was carried
out and disclosed for all planned road works and the conclusion was that works would
have limited negative impacts on the environment. This turned out to be accurate and the
identified mitigation measures were correctly implemented.

38.     The original project did not require any land acquisition. However, during project
implementation, the alignment of the Alcatraz – Figueira road in Maio Island was slightly
modified and required minor land acquisition of uncultivated agricultural land. Also,
works of the Ponta de Talho – Igreja road financed under the second AF required partial
acquisition of agricultural plots. An Abbreviated Resettlement Plan (ARAP) was
prepared, disclosed and satisfactorily implemented.

39.     Financial management. Financial management by the PCO was efficient. The
quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) were received regularly and were fully
compliant with the agreed format. Audits were done annually, on-time and were
unqualified.

40.      Procurement. Procurement under the project was satisfactory. All procurement
activities and post-reviews were satisfactory. The Procurement Plan was updated
regularly, at least once a year, and all procurement activities were executed efficiently
and in a timely manner.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

41.     Sustaining project’s outcomes. Consolidation of the project’s outcomes will be
ensured through the recently approved Transport Sector Reform Project (TSRP, Cr 52660
- CV) one of the key objectives of which is to support the GoCV’s efforts to improve the
efficiency and the management of the national road assets. The PBCs piloted under the
RSSP have been redesigned to include the rehabilitation of roads to maintainable
standards, and 4 years of maintenance. Their coverage is being expanded to gradually


7
 More details on the methodology are available in the final report summarizing the results of this survey
and entitled “análise dos impactes económicos e sociais das estradas reabilitadas ou melhoradas através
do programa de apoio ao setor rodaviário”, September 2012.




                                                   10
increase over the TRSP implementation period from 44% (baseline) of the national
network to 56% one year after project effectiveness (out of which 24% are rehabilitated
with TRSP funding), and eventually to 80% percent at project closing.

42.    The institutional reforms that created the road fund and the Roads Agency (IE)
have been enacted by law and are likely to be sustained. Furthermore, the TSRP is
expected to enhance the impact of RSSP’s support to these institutions with modern tools,
such as a Road Database Management System, and additional technical assistance geared
towards improving the efficiency and the functioning of the national road asset
management framework.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

43.     The initial PDO and the reworded PDO remain highly relevant. The overall
objective of improving the efficiency of the road sector remains a key priority for the
GoCV. More specifically, the GoCV in its 2011-2016 Third Growth and Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (GPRSP-3) emphasizes the need to improve public sector
capacity, especially in the transport sector in order to foster economic growth and poverty
reduction. The GoCV is highly committed to the improvement of transport services and
the reduction of transport costs and time, especially for the inhabitants of isolated rural
communities. Furthermore, the project’s design and implementation, which were kept
unchanged during the course of the project despite the PDO reformulation in 2011, are
still highly relevant. The recently approved TSRP features a US$22 million Road
component which builds on the achievements of the RSSP in view of sustaining the
national road assets. The fact that the TSRP road component builds on the same design as
the RSSP demonstrates that the design of the project remains relevant not only during its
implementation but also for the follow on project. Finally, the first specific objective of
the TSRP which is to improve efficiency and management of the national road assets is
consistent with the first specific objective of the RSSP which is to improve the planning
and financing of the road sector. This is further evidence that the PDO of the RSSP
remains highly relevant.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

44.    The PDO rating is Satisfactory for the following reasons.

45.     The project supported the putting in place of an adequate institutional framework
for more rational and efficient management of the road subsector. This has been achieved
through the creation of a Roads Agency-IE tasked with the management of the national
road network and the establishment of an autonomous road maintenance fund, Fundo de
Manutenção Rodoviária endowed with increasing funds generated through user fees. The
efficiency of the IE has improved over time and has led to a stop in the deteriorating of
the condition of the road network. Half of the road network is in a good and fair condition




                                            11
at project closing. Furthermore, the IE has adopted the PBC concept to maintain the road
network, as illustrated by their decision to extend the concept country-wide.

46.     The project has strengthened the newly established agencies with state of the art
tools in network planning and management. Furthermore, it has successfully introduced
innovative approaches to road rehabilitation and maintenance contracting such as PBCs.

47.    Underfunding of road maintenance has been reduced, and should be further
reduced in the near future. The initial package of PBCs, in 2006, covered 21 percent of
road network, increased to 38 percent in the second package and currently covers 46
percent of the entire road network. The more predictable funding stream available for
maintenance has resulted in a more rational approach to road asset management, moving
away from earlier firefighting interventions to address pressing backlog maintenance
needs.

48.     Upstream engineering studies (in particular engineer estimates) are now much
more reliable and accurate and contract monitoring by the IE is more efficient than it
used to be in the earlier years of the project. For example, there were no cost overruns
under the last contracts financed by the RSSP (Praia-Cidade Velha and rural roads in the
island of Santiago).

49.     Finally, the investment program of RSSP has brought more cohesion to the
national network which featured many gaps which compromised its efficiency. Also,
RSSP has significantly improved accessibility in rural areas through the rehabilitation of
9.4 kilometers of rural roads and 41 kilometers of interurban network.

50.    What follows is a detailed assessment of the project’s achievements against its
two specific objectives.

(i) Specific objective #1: Institutional reform of the road sector and improvement of
the functioning of the related civil works market (initial PDO) / Improvement of the
planning and the financing of the road sector (reworded PDO)

51.     The initial and the reworded specific objective #1 have the same scope. The rating
for both of them is satisfactory for the following reasons.

52.     Enhancements in the management of the national road network have been
achieved. The project succeeded in consolidating the road asset planning, investment,
and maintenance within the IE. Furthermore, IE’s capacity was developed and
strengthened with assistance from the project to give it the essential planning and
technical tools for the effective management of the road network.




                                           12
53.      With the establishment of the Road Information and Management System 8 the
Ministry of Transport and the IE now have a good knowledge of the road network under
their responsibility. The system is continuously updated and provides real-time
information on the physical condition of the network. It is also a platform where other
socio-economic data (such as traffic, accessibility, etc.) are centralized in view of
facilitating investment decisions and maintenance strategies.

54.     The project has significantly improved the capacity of the Civil Engineering
Laboratory (LEC). LEC was able, thanks to the technical assistance provided by RSSP,
to review and update the legislation related to its activities. LEC’s building was
rehabilitated and new laboratory equipment acquired. Also, LEC was able to hire
additional staff.

55.    The financial situation of LEC has significantly improved thanks to the project.
Between 2005 and 2011, the commercial revenue of LEC has nearly doubled from ECV7
million to ECV13.8 million. Cost recovery of LEC has improved from 41 percent in 2005
to about 55 percent in 2012.

56.     The mandate and legal framework of the General Inspectorate of Public and
Private Works (IGOPP) were updated thanks to the project. IGOPP is now able to play its
role of regulator of the civil works industry in Cabo Verde. Its staffing level was
increased to include 2 additional technical staffs and the civil works standards have been
revised.

57.    MIT’s planning and decision making capacity was substantially improved.
Thanks to support from the project, the MIT was able to prepare and endorse a Transport
Sector Strategy (TSS) in February of 2008.

58.    With support from the project, the GoCV published the Decree 26/2006 of March
6, 2006, that defines the technical characteristics of National and Municipal Roads based
on service levels. Later, in 2008, a new road classification (Estatuto das Estradas
Nacionais 9) gave full responsibility to the IE for planning and management of the entire
national road network.

59.    Financing of road maintenance on the path to sustainability. A major outcome
of the project is the creation of the road maintenance fund – Fundo de Manutenção
Rodoviária (RMF) 10. The main source of income of the RMF is a fuel levy (Taxa de
Serviço de Manutenção Rodoviária – TSMR) currently set at ECV7 per liter (US$0.0875
equivalent – 8.75 US dollar cents) 11 . The RMF generated ECV550 million (US$6.6


8
 The system is GIS enabled and includes the following modules: (a) road administration, (b) asset
management information, (c) contracts management, and (d) economic evaluation.

9
    Decree 22/2008, of July 30 2008
10
     Decree No. 33/2005 of July 25, 2005
11
     Decree No. 16/2008 of July 02, 2008



                                                   13
million equivalent) in 2013. The GoCV is considering an increase of the fuel levy from
ECV7 to ECV9 per liter in 2014. This is expected to increase the annual revenue of the
fund with additional ECV120 million per year, a 26 percent increase from its current
level. Such increase in resources will allow the fund to cover about 55 percent of the
national network. In addition, 20 percent of car insurance fees (seguro obrigatório) will
be allocated to the RMF. This is waiting for the approval of proper legislation which is
expected for 2014.

(ii) Specific objective #2: Better access to social and economic opportunities (initial
PDO) / Mobility increase of the population in targeted areas (initial and reworded
PDO)

60.     Although the “better access to social and economic opportunities” part was
removed during the reformulation of the PDO, the scope of the initial and the adjusted
specific objective #2 remains the same. In fact, an improved/increased mobility leads
automatically to a better accessibility. The rating is satisfactory for both the initial and
the reworded specific objective for the following reasons.

61.     All civil works activities have been satisfactorily completed. The impacts of these
works can be measured against a 2005 baseline, and based on data adjusted for inflation.
Transport costs in some of the concerned areas went down significantly: up to 63% per
passenger-km by public transport, and for goods, between 50% and close to insignificant
depending on the type of products transported. Travel times also went down in some
communities: out of the surveyed sample, the percentage of people living less than 30
minutes away from the nearest market increased from 52 to 79%. In the most isolated
village attended by the project, the proportion of people for whom accessibility was the
major concern (Orgãos – Pedro Badejo) went down from 40% to about zero.

62.     The mobility of the population increased beyond what were the targets in the
project. More specifically, the percentage of adult population in affected communities
who made at least 5 trips per month increased from 39 to 86 percent for a 50 percent
target. The percentage of affected communities who take more than 30 minutes to reach
the nearest market has decreased from 49 percent to 21 percent for a 40 percent target.

3.3 Efficiency

63.    Although there was some initial costs overrun on the original project that
warranted the AF1, the last batch of works contracts, financed under the AF2, was
completed without any significant cost overrun. This speaks favorably in relation to the
performance of the IE.

64.     The final quality of all rehabilitation works is good. In some islands, like São
Nicolau and Santo Antão, were the roads run through difficult mountainous/hilly terrain
with heavy rainfall, the protection walls, drainage infrastructure and road pavement
funded under the project are holding up well. The errors and deficiencies detected at
initial stages of the road rehabilitation works were well addressed. The table below



                                            14
presents a summary of project costs for civil works from appraisal stage to the
implementation.

                 Table 3 – Project Cost for civil works during the life of the project
                      Traffic (vehicles per day)   Estimate cost
                                                   during                          Additional                     % cost
Road Section          Forecast                     project          Initial Cost                  Final Cost
                                    Real 2014                                      Cost                           increase
                      2014                         Appraisal (*)
Salamansa - Norte
                                                   620,000          280,125.79     467,210.13     747,335.91      166.8
Baia (São Vicente)
Figueira - Alcatraz
                                    32             3,620,000        2,516,846.61   1,668,506.44   4,185,353.04    66.3
(Maio)
Ribeira Brava -
Tarrafal       (São   620           231            8,130,000        6,699,649.52   5,361,418.68   12,061,068.20   80.0
Nicolau)
Praia - Cidade
                      1718          1179                            3,750,542.38   560,011.47     4,310,553.85    14.9
Velha (Santiago)
Ribeira Principal
Ponta do Atalho –                                                   1,602,694.76   193,475.52     1,796,170.28    12.1
Igreja (Santiago)
     (*) Including supervision (5%) and contingencies (8%)


65.     At the project appraisal stage, the economic analysis was done only for roads with
significant initial traffic levels, for which a cost-benefit analysis was conducted based on
Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC) savings. Based on that, only the 27 km road in São
Nicolau island (Ribeira Brava – Tarrafal) was analyzed. However, no post rehabilitations
surveys on traffic count, mobility/accessibility and public transport costs, included any of
the roads financed by the Project, mainly due to the fact that the surveys follow the plans
for improving the data base. Additional data collection was carried out in January 2014 to
allow comparison between ex-ante and ex-post economic analysis. Although there is no
information on VOCs, the inquiry made in 2012 indicates a decrease in transport costs by
about 20 percent which is very likely to reflect the reduction in vehicle operation costs.

66.     The ex-post ERR evaluation of Brava – Tarrafal is negative (dropped from initial
estimate of 14 percent to 5 percent), due to issues mentioned earlier which affected
basically all RSSP works: flawed designs, poor monitoring and project management,
changes in the design after appraisal, cost overruns compared to the initial contract value,
and unreliable traffic counts that were used as the baseline for traffic forecasts. All these
factors obviously impacted negatively the ERR of the RSSP works (the average cost
overrun of the RSSP is 83%, and the average overrun for IDA-funded roads is 54%,.
However, most of these issues are being solved: the last two contracts financed by IDA
(Praia – Cidade Velha, and two rural roads in Santiago island) did not suffer cost
overruns, project design and contract management have been substantially and gradually
improved with the Road Institute over the life of the project, and traffic counts are now
automatized, which should make large errors unlikely. This is reflected by the ex-post
evaluation of the Praia-Cidade Velha works, which were completed on schedule, with a
minor cost increase due to additional works that were not considered initially but which
are definitely justified. In Annex 3, a more detailed Economic and Financial Analysis is
presented.




                                                               15
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Overall rating is Satisfactory

67.    The reforms introduced in Road Sector create conditions for a timely availability
of funds for road maintenance through the FMR, and the consolidation of sector
responsibilities. The IE has created a sustainable institutional structure for the planning
and management of the road network. The introduction of PBCs, financed by FMR, is
notably improving road maintenance management and network coverage, from 21
percent, at beginning in 2006, to 46 percent at the end of the project.

68.     The Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and other key stakeholders in the
road sector are now fully aware of the actual benefits of commercial road management
practices. Such practices have improved and the share of the national road network under
performance-based contracts is overall in good condition and increasing.

69.      Lastly, due to the fact that the project was restructured in April 2011, a split
evaluation has been done. More specifically, the Satisfactory PDO rating was assessed
both before and after the restructuring against both against Efficacy and Efficiency
criteria. Furthermore, the disbursement percentage was split to reflect the both and after
restructuring of the project. See Table 4 below for more details.


                                        Table 4 – Split evaluation
                         Against
                                         Against
                      original PDO
                                      adjusted PDO
                          (68%                        Overall                           Comments
                                          (32%
                      disbursement)
                                      disbursement)
                                                                The design was not changed during the course of the
Relevance of design       High            High         High     project even though the PDO was adjusted. See also
                                                                paragraph 43.
                                                                PDO indicators which were maintained throughout the
                                                                project life: The increase in mobility and the reduction in
                                                                travel time have been more than achieved. Target values
                                                                for the ex-post IRR were not reached.
                                                                PDO indicator which was added after the PDO change:
                                                                This is a core indicator; target in the percentage of roads
                                                                in good and fair condition has been reached.
                                                                PDO indicators which were dropped during the PDO
                                                                change. The reduction in travel cost has been achieved but
                                                                the increase in the road asset value was not reached.
Efficacy                   S               S            S
                                                                Intermediate outcome indicators which were maintained
                                                                throughout the project life: The establishment of the RMF
                                                                and the Road Agency as along with the planned road
                                                                rehabilitation, have been realized.
                                                                Intermediate outcome indicators which were dropped
                                                                during the PDO change: The planned improvements of the
                                                                LEC, IGOPP, GEP, and PCO have been realized. Only the
                                                                performance target of the DGISBSB to implement the
                                                                contracts within 15 percent of the planned budget was not
                                                                achieved.
                                                                3 roads were initially planned to be rehabilitated at
                                                                approval. The final costs of these 3 roads were 37 percent
                                                                higher than appraised. 2 roads were added during the PDO
Efficiency               Modest         Moderate      Modest    change. Efficiency has improved after the PDO change
                                                                since the final costs of these 2 roads were only 14 percent
                                                                higher than planned. The final costs of the 5 roads were
                                                                about 30 percent higher than planned (see Table 1)




                                                       16
                                                                         The overall rating is satisfactory given the combination of
Rating                           S                S              S       a high relevance, a satisfactory efficacy, and a modest
                                                                         efficiency.
Rating value 12                  5                5              5
Weight (% disbursed
before/after PDO                67               33             100
change)
Weighted value                 3.35              1.65            5       The final rating is 5 (satisfactory)




3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

70.       The project has contributed to additional outcomes and impacts, as follows.

71.     Poverty impacts. Although no specific study was carried out to measure its impact
on poverty, the project contributed to reducing poverty by generating employment
opportunities, lowering transportation costs, and reducing travel time. There was a study
carried out in 2005 to assess the mobility and accessibility in the project area as well as
the cost of public transport. The collected information was then compared with the results
of the survey done in 2012/2013 in the same area. The main survey conclusions are: (a)
the mobility patterns have changed and mobility has increased: in the project areas, the
percentage of the population that travel five times or more per month, increased from 61
percent to 86 percent; (b) significant reductions in travel times in the project area - the
percentage of population living within 30 minutes of markets increased from 52 percent
to 79 percent; (c) overall, public transport costs decreased, in average, by 20 percent.

72.   Gender aspects. The project contributed to promoting employment opportunities
for women in road maintenance PBC and rehabilitation. It is estimated that 65 percent of
temporary jobs created went to women over the life of the project.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

73.      In terms of institutional strengthening, the project has helped advance key
institutional reforms in the road sector such as: (a) establishment of the RF and fuel levy
at 7 ECV per liter; (b) institutional strengthening of IE; (c) major improvements in the
capacity of the LEC to fulfill its mandate; and (d) update of the legal mandate of the
General Inspectorate of Public and Private Works (IGOPP).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

74.    The RMFis contributing to the development of the road construction industry in
the country by offering a steady stream of road maintenance packages which will create
conditions for local contractors to develop by investing in equipment and personal.



12
   Highly Satisfactory=6, Satisfactory=5, Moderately Satisfactory=4, Moderately Unsatisfactory=3, Unsatisfactory=2, and Highly
Unsatisfactory=1



                                                               17
75.    The fact that reforms in the road subsector were successful has encouraged the
GoCV to move ahead with reform efforts in the other transport subsectors (sea and air
transport) to modernize their management.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

76.   This is a core ICR which does not require a beneficiary survey/stakeholder
workshop.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

77.     Notwithstanding the progress achieved in road maintenance management notably
with the introduction of PBCs, there are still challenges that could hamper sustainability
of road asset value, mainly: (a) limited resources of the road fund which at present covers
only 44 percent of the road network maintenance needs; (b) backlog of road rehabilitation
works for aging roads to bring them to maintainable standards; and (c) significant
emergency works backlog caused by more frequent severe storms events.

78.    According to a 2009 estimate, about US$200 million would be needed over the
next twenty years to cover all needs in terms of rehabilitation, current and periodic
maintenance and emergency works, with some level of frontloading to bring existing
degraded roads to a maintainable condition. Taking into account the emergency works
backlog, this means that about US$12 to US$15 million per year would be needed over
the next three years. This represents about 0.7 to 0.9 percent of GDP.

79.    In view of sustaining the financing mechanism of the RF, there must be on one
hand, an automatic mechanism for the continuous update of the fuel levy in light of the
needs of the network and to account for inflation, and on the other hand, alternate sources
of funds to close the financing gap (see paragraph 59). Furthermore, a major risk to the
financing of road maintenance is the dependence of oil prices ruled by international
marked which could block further increases in the fuel levy and could have a negative
impact on fuel sales.

80.     The financing risk is also compounded by the substantial increase, in terms of
percentage, of the share of the road network with asphalt pavement, rising from 3 percent
in 2000 to 44 percent in 2013, while cobblestone decreased from 66 percent to 28 percent
in the same period. Because of that, and also because the fuel levy is not indexed to
inflation, in September 2005 the Quality at Entry Assessment panel had considered that
the project risks had been underestimated.

81.    The financing of emergency repair works is also a risk to the project’s outcome.
Cabo Verde is regularly hit by heavy rains between July and October which often damage
bridges and roads, cutting vital links to areas for prolonged periods of time. Since GoCV
does not have the resources to intervene rapidly, weather related damages to the road
network are not repaired quickly. The TSRP has set up a US$1 million emergency fund



                                            18
to help the GoCV address such events. However, this is insufficient to cover the annual
emergency needs of the network and it also not sustainable since it is provided under a
World Bank funded project. Thus, unless GoCV allocates adequate annual emergency
road rehabilitation funding, parts of the road network will be cut off due to weather
related events.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

82.      The World Bank’s performance at entry is assessed as “Moderately
Unsatisfactory.” The World Bank’s staff worked closely with the staff of the Ministry of
Infrastructure Transport and Sea in a diagnostic evaluation of the transport sector issues
faced by Cabo Verde and provided support in the preparation of the project financed by
World Bank, GoCV and other donors. The World Bank mission gave extensive
comments on the preliminary report on the Road Management Study and on feasibility
and design studies, which were discussed with the GoCV. The World Bank team
provided advisory support in preparation of the final EIA report. But, however, the World
Bank did not carry out the necessary engineering reviews of the detailed project designs
of civil works funded under the project which led to a major cost overruns and the need
for a first AF (see Table 1).

83.     Soon after the civil works contracts were signed and the road rehabilitation started,
the implementation of the contracts showed deficiencies in the engineering designs. The
concepts were reviewed and the designs accordingly revised and, in some cases, the
technical specifications were substantially modified. Errors in the BOQ were detected
and corrected. In addition to that, there was an increase of unit cost of inputs ruled by the
market environment. Consequently, contract costs increased substantially. To allow
continuation of civil works and achievement of PDOs the first additional finance to the
project was requested and processed. The conclusion is that the Project Team did not
ensure, through an adequate assessment, that detailed engineering designs and the
associated cost estimate were satisfactory for good implementation of the project.
However, this shortcoming could not be picked during the QAG review which was a desk
review done shortly after the approval of the project. In addition, the QAG review did not
go deeply into the technical design of road works but focused on the preparation/design
of the project as a whole.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

84.    The skill mix of the Bank supervision team was well balanced and the Bank team
provided guidance to the Project Coordination Office in meeting the effectiveness




                                            19
conditions. To strengthen policy and institutional reforms, the Bank facilitated provision
of the necessary Technical Assistance to all involved institutions.

85.      The World Bank was effective in addressing the key problem of cost overruns
that arose due to low quality detailed engineering studies and designs. It was able to
relatively quickly process a 1st AF to the project. It also was able to mobilize funds for a
2nd AF to better support the institutional agenda and to scale up the road works activities
of the original project. The World Bank drew a lesson from the weakness of the first road
design and undertook a more thorough review of the following designs, which made it
possible to avoid further cost overruns.

86.     Throughout implementation, the team provided timely advice and support on
procurement, financial management, and environmental aspects of the project. The
project had four different Task Team Leaders during project its life, and despite this,
there was good continuity in the key messages and support from the World Bank. The
MTR mission was effective in resolving pending project implementation issues, and the
team used the opportunity to refocus the GoCV on the project objectives. The supervision
team also effectively monitored the implementation of the policy measures proposed.
Field supervision of civil works contracts was adequate with detailed field visit reports
written and attached in Aide Memoires.

87.    World Bank relations with other Development Partners (DPs) were collaborative.
The project was financed by the World Bank and other donors. For the MTR donors and
stakeholders were invited and actively participated.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

88.    The World Bank has played a key role in supporting the GoCV’s Road Sector
Support Program through the project. The project provided major support with sector
reforms and capacity building while other donor funding was exclusively for physical
investments.

89.     The World Bank’s overall performance is also rated as “moderately satisfactory”,
mainly due to the issues related to project preparation for the implementation of the
Component 2. The World Bank team was efficient in quickly understanding the
deficiencies of project design, working with the Client and all those involved, and in
finding adequate technical and financial solutions for successful completion of the
rehabilitation works. This exercise included the first additional financing and
strengthening of technical management capacity of IE. Direct impact of these efforts was
the scaled up support to the project through second additional financing to finance not
only the rehabilitation of new roads added to the project but also capacity strengthening
of IE and FR. The design and implementation of new roads activities were done without
any cost overrun.




                                            20
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

90.    The GoCV performance has been rated as “Satisfactory” taking into account the
following:

91.     The GoCV was able to implement the needed reforms in the Road Sector which
included the creation of the Road Maintenance Fund (Fundo de Manutenção Rodoviária)
and the establishment of a dedicated road agency (Instituto de Estradas). The reforms
have improved the capacity in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to support
planning and decision making as well as the capacity of Civil Engineering Laboratory. To
support the sustainability of FMR, a fuel levy has been introduced. To cover the
maintenance needs of the entire road network, the GoCV is considering increasing the
fuel levy in the near future and is also looking for other source of funding. The GoCV has
also demonstrated is adherence to the principle of sustainable maintenance as illustrated
by the decision to continue increasing the share of the national road network covered by
performance-based maintenance contracts. The progresses achieved in terms of road
policy maintenance are illustrated by the determination of the GoCV to also develop a
Road Management Database and to enforce axle load control legislation, with the support
of the ongoing Transport Sector Reform Project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

92.     The Implementing Agency overcame all challenges related to the implementation
of agreed institutional reforms liaising with different Government entities to that end.
Also, they managed well the coordination with different entities (Road Institute, Road
maintenance Fund, Contractors, Supervision Consultants) resolving the issue of cost
overruns and clearly and timely expressing the need for additional financing to complete
the road rehabilitation woks.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

93.     The Borrower’s overall performance is rated as “satisfactory”, taking into account
the performance of the government and implementing agency (MIEM- Ministry Maritime
Economy and Infrastructure) as explained above.

94.     Although there were initial delays in the implementation of the institutional
strengthening and reform component, the GoCV has been committed to completing the
reforms and further strengthening sector institutions. However, preparation of
Component 2 (civil works) was not adequately revised to correct deficiencies that led to
major cost overruns and need for the first AF.




                                           21
95.   Both PCO and Government agencies provided the necessary ownership and
commitment for this project and performed well during its implementation.

6. Lessons Learned

96.     Project readiness is essential for smooth implementation. It was observed that it
is a current practice to launch tenders for road rehabilitation and maintenance supported
only by preliminary designs or concept designs. One reasons for this is the relatively
small road network in the country, spread in nine islands that do not make it feasible to
contract a consultant to prepare a single road engineering design which sometimes is less
than 10 km long. Also, the preliminary designs are prepared on an ad-hoc basis
depending on the funds availability for road rehabilitation. In some past cases of road
rehabilitation and maintenance, project designs were not seen as a big issue because most
of the roads were built simply, using labor based and local construction techniques
(cobblestones). By introducing concrete asphalt roads, it has become necessary to
dedicate more time and efforts to better planning, design and increased cost estimates. It
is clear that previous practices have led to significant cost overruns that impacted not
only International Development Association-Funded (IDA) projects but basically all road
contracts. The GoCV needs to find sufficient funds to finance engineering design by a
renowned consulting firm, which, due to the nature of the road network, would prepare,
in one contract, robust engineering designs for several road rehabilitation contracts to be
financed soon after these designs are completed.

97.     Particularly, for IDA financed projects, it is key to make sure that the proposed
projects are based on solid engineering designs and reliable sources of information
regarding unit costs, final cost of previous road contracts that are comparable to those
envisaged, etc.

98.      Deficient engineering design in civil works often leads to major cost overruns.
Major cost overruns in the road rehabilitation works funded under the original project
were essentially due to deficient engineering designs. Therefore, it is critical for the IE to
continue strengthen its technical planning and management capacity through recruitment
of technical staff with the desired skills, and to define a good training program for its
staff in order to help them prepare good engineering designs.

99.     The cost overruns and extension of time for completion of works is a key issue as
it generated doubts regarding the planning and management capacity of the entities in
charge of the road sector, but also contributed to increase the country's debt, which is
high by international standards due to large infrastructure investments over the past
decade.

100. For isolated small islands, it is necessary to explore first the soundness of using
the locally available construction materials in order to have better efficiency. Cabo
Verde is a volcanic archipelago of islands with good basalt stone used as a road building
material. This is a natural resource that is well used by the population in all construction
industry (road pavement and housing), with special focus on road pavement. It is applied



                                             22
as a pavement material for entire villages and most of the roads in Cabo Verde, until
2000, were cobblestone paved. This construction technique was nationally well
developed and has been used for years. However, in most recent cases, the use of
cobblestones as a road building material is no longer adequate with modern roads
construction techniques which are not based on labor intensive methods. In some cases,
taking into account the location of the road and associated traffic volume, the use of
asphalt pavement may not be economically justified, even socially. This is the case of the
11 km road in Maio Island that was initially planned to be laid with cobblestones and was
then, probably wrongly, changed to asphalt. In addition, maintenance of asphalt road
requires more sophisticated equipment and also impacts maintenance costs. Thus, it is
imperative to tailor construction techniques to different roads types, location, and traffic
volumes.

101. From 2000 to 2013, cobblestone roads mileage decreased from 66 percent to 28
percent of the national road network, while asphalt roads increased from 3 percent to 44
percent. Most of the roads that are part of the RSSP were rehabilitated using concrete
asphalt. All roads that were initially designed to be cobblestone paved were then changed
into asphalt. In many cases, the traffic volumes and road location do not economically
justify asphalt pavement. At the time that changes were made, which was after contract
signing, the decision to go for asphalt was mostly based on local contractors’ capacity to
execute the works, and on the equipment available. A serious risk of “killing” the
historically well-developed local construction technics has been created. Moreover, the
sustainability of the road maintenance is also at risk given that the construction inputs are
not locally available; there will be difficulties to mobilize equipment and materials for
maintenance in some islands and funds generation for road maintenance will not be
sufficient to cover the necessary maintenance needs.

102. It had been observed that there is more and more often a lack of qualified local
people with knowledge and relevant experience in building cobblestone road pavements.
The lack of specialized workers is one of the reasons why it was gradually decided to
move away from cobblestone to asphalt. Developing a maintenance program for roads
laid with cobblestones, both for interurban and urban roads, in a coordinated manner with
Municipalities, could be a way to save resources and make sure that specialized works
and maintenance for this type of construction technologies can be sustained.

103. Whenever possible, combining Development Lending Operations with sector
specific projects creates useful synergies: some of the prior actions under the budget
support operations were related to transport, and more specifically to the road sector. This
made it possible for the World Bank as a whole to carry out a consistent policy dialogue
in the road sector, promoting reforms from two ends, through a portfolio whereby
investment lending and policy lending were reinforcing each other, the latter offering
additional incentives to carry out the desired reforms, while the former was instrumental
in providing technical and financial assistance needed to meet the prior actions of the
latter.




                                             23
104. There is a need to support the decision-making process for the development and
rehabilitation of low-volume rural roads with customized economic evaluation tool: the
usual Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) present a good
framework for the economic evaluation of road investments but are not particularly
customized for low-volume roads (traffic less than 200 vehicles per day), such as the
roads of Cabo Verde. There is a need to capture all the benefits associated with low-
volume road investments that require a series of inputs which are impractical to collect
for low traffic levels. Hence, the need for a simplified economic evaluation model to
fulfill the planning and programming needs of road agencies such as the IE. For future
similar projects, it will be important to rely on models tailored for low volume roads,
such as the Roads Economic Decision Model (RED) that performs an economic
evaluation of road investments and maintenance options customized to the characteristics
of low-volume roads such as: high uncertainty of the assessment of traffic, road
condition, and future maintenance of unpaved roads; periods during a year with
obstructed carriageways; levels of service and corresponding road user costs defined not
only through roughness; high potential to influence economic development;
and beneficiaries other than motorized road users.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

105. Comments received from the implementing agency have been incorporated in this
report. The Borrower’s contribution is attached unedited in Annex 5

(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                          24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                         Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                            Appraisal
                                                       millions)
Component 1:                             5.0                5.0               100%
Component 2:                            10.0               25.00              250%
            Total Baseline Cost          0.00               0.00
Physical Contingencies
                                        0.00                0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies
                                        0.00                0.00               0.00
             Total Project Costs       15.00               30.00               200
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00                0.00               .00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00                0.00               .00
     Total Financing Required          15.00               30.00               200


(b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                   Type of Co-   Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                    financing     (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                 millions)   millions)
Borrower                                           2.48        0.00        0.00
International Development
                                                   15.00           30.00          200
Association (IDA)




                                          25
      Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Institutional Support                                            Outputs

(i)   Support to Road Sector Program (i) Project Coordination Office was installed,
Coordination Office (PCO), for the management equipped, staffed and was fully operational.
of the project and overall road and transport sector
coordination.



(ii) Technical assistance and capacity building to     (ii) two contracts for Technical Assistance were
the Road Agency (IE) and Road Maintenance              signed and the Consultants successfully performed
Fund (CV-FMR), with a focus on establishing            their duties that included on job training of the
capacity, methods and procedures for road network      technical staff of IE, develop its activities under the
                                                       national road sector strategy and road management.
management and securing adequate financing for
                                                       Specific activities including; a) Concept and
road maintenance and annual emergency works.           development of Road Information and Management
IDA funds have not been used to finance the Fund       System; b)Traffic count and development of tools
itself.                                                for future similar exercises; c) Studies on public
                                                       transport costs mobility; d) Elaboration of norms to
                                                       support the implementation of National Road Plan

(iii) Assistance to Civil Engineering Laboratory       (iii) For Technical assistance, the LEC celebrated a
of Cabo Verde (LEC), aimed at meeting the              TA contract with the Instituto Superior de
country’s growing need for construction testing        Engenharia do Porto from Portugal. Under this TA
facilities, related training and research              several proposals of legislations were prepared: a)
                                                       Regulation of reinforced concrete; b)Norms on
                                                       safety, hygiene and health in constructions areas; c)
                                                       Norms for laboratory tests; e) Water supply network
                                                       and drainage of wastewater in buildings; f) Rigid
                                                       foundations and supporting structures; g) Fire safety
                                                       in buildings.

                                                       The LEC building was rehabilitated and equipped.
                                                       Two new technicians were recruited. Training
                                                       program was developed in Portugal and Cabo
                                                       Verde.

                                                       The operation capacity of LEC improved and
                                                       increased and allows then to support with 50 percent
                                                       of its activity through its own revenues.




                                                  26
(iv) Assistance to the General Inspectorate of            (iv) Prepared a detailed analyze of legal and
Public and Private Works (IGOPP), aimed at                regulatory framework of Cabo Verde that made
meeting the need to reinforce capacity to regulate        possible the elaboration and approval of the Legal
civil works                                               Framework for Procurement in Cabo Verde in 2007
                                                          (Lei 17/07/2007 ).

                                                          Under the training program of the Inspectors, study
                                                          visits were organized to Portugal and Brazil in 2008

(v) Assistance to the Ministry of Infrastructure (v) a) Not done. This assistance was to be given in
and Transport through the following Units:       relation to road infrastructure management, the
                                                          responsibility of which was transferred to the IE.
    a) Assistance to General Directorate of
       Infrastructure & Basic Sanitation
       (DGISB), aimed at improving DGISB’s
       capacity to procure and manage road and
       other infrastructure projects.

                                                          (v) b) A data base system and a network
    b) Assistance to the Studies and Planning             communication system were installed. The existent
       Unit (GEP), focused on establishing a              information and communication system was
       functioning    information  management             renewed with the installation of new equipment.
       system for the MIT                                 In 2008, the Transport Sector Strategy was prepared
                                                          and approved.

                                                          New furniture was acquired for the General
                                                          Directorate of Infrastructure.

                                                          Technicians from MIT participated in international
                                                          conferences and attended for training.

(vi) Other Studies and Technical Assistance, to     (vi) IE has monitored and supported the preparation
support project monitoring and evaluation and other of engineering designs for the rehabilitation of two
sector management needs as they arise               additional roads financed by the Bank.

                                                          Internal brainstorming in preparation of introduction
                                                          of performance-based maintenance road contracts.
                                                          Development of Technical Norms that helps the IE
                                                          to establish working regulations; examples are the
                                                          definition of some road terminology, identification
                                                          of road pathologies that could appear in specific
                                                          type of roads, all associated with the development of
                                                          Road Management and Information System.




                                                     27
(vii) Support for the implementation of pilot             (vii) Two packages of roads contracts under
road maintenance and management contracts,                performance-based maintenance were successfully
which will be financed with Cabo Verde funds              implemented. The first package, comprising six
through the Road Maintenance Fund                         contracts which included 285 km of road network
                                                          (21% of road network), for duration of 36 months
                                                          each contract, was implemented from 2006 to 2009.
                                                          The second package, comprising five contracts, with
                                                          a total duration of 27 months, and covering 517 km
                                                          of roads (38 percent of road network), was
                                                          implemented from October 2010 to September
                                                          2012. All contracts were funded by FR.
Component 2: Road Infrastructure                                                 Outputs

Rehabilitation of the following roads

(i) Maio Island                                           (i) The road was rehabilitated. Civil works started in
Road # 6: Alcatraz-Figueira (11 km)                       January 2006 and completed in March 2008. The
                                                          road was initially designed to be with cobblestone
                                                          but was then changed to asphalt pavement.


(ii) São Nicolau Island                                   (ii)The road was rehabilitated. Civil works started in
Road # 7: Ribiera Brava-Tarrafal (27 km)                  December 2005 and were completed in June 2009.
                                                          There were changes in project design.


(iii) São Vicente Island
                                                          (iii) The road was rehabilitated. Civil works started
Road # 10: Salamansa-Norte de Baia (3 km)
                                                          in December 2005 and was completed in April
                                                          2007.
Additional Works

Under the second Additional Finance two new roads
were added to the project:

(iv) Santiago Island
                                                          (iv) The road was rehabilitated. Civil works contract
Praia-Cidade Vela (6 km)
                                                          started on April 2012 and at the project closing date
                                                          the works were substantially completed.



(v) Santiago Island
                                                          (v) The road was rehabilitated. Civil works contract
Ribeira Principal road (4 km) and Ponta do Talho-Igreja
                                                          started on January 2013 and at the project closing
(2,4 km)
                                                          date the works were substantially completed




                                                     28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


1.    This ex-post economic analysis relates to the roads rehabilitated under IDA Credit
4064-CV and supplemental credits (4488-CV and 4904-CV):

                           Island                 Road
                       São Niccolau      Ribeira Brava - Tarrafal
                       São Vicente       Salamansa - N. Baio
                       Maio              Alcatrás - Figueira
                       Santiago          Praia - Cidade Velha*

2.     In the case of São Nicolau and Santiago, the ex-ante economic evaluation of the
road works followed a Cost-Benefit approach. The two other roads were evaluated
according to a Cost-Effectiveness methodology, as the expected traffic was low.

São Nicolau / Ribeira Brava - Tarrafal Road:

3.     Ex-ante economic evaluation: Three scenarios had been evaluated and compared
with the “without project” situation: (i) cobblestone pavement, (ii) double bituminous
surface dressing, and (iii) concrete asphalt. Local authorities eventually chose (iii) whose
estimated cost (net of taxes) was 598 million Escudos (about 7 million US$). The
estimated ERR for this option was initially estimated at 14%.

4.     Ex-post economic evaluation: the IE was requested collect up-to-date traffic data
in early 2014 to feed the ex-post analysis counts. Data collected in 2012 and 2013
showed that actual traffic is only 54% of the estimated traffic factored into the ex-ante
economic evaluation, which has impacted the magnitude of the economic benefits
associated with the IDA-financed works. The ex-post evaluation was based on the same
methodological approach and used the same unit VOC’s, current maintenance costs, and
other minor assumptions. In addition, the final investment cost was 912 million Escudos,
net of taxes, i.e. 52% more expensive than expected. The effect of the lower-than-
expected traffic volumes combined with the above-mentioned cost overruns made the
economic rate of return (ERR) decrease from 14% to 5%.

Santiago / Praia – Cidade Velha Road:

5.      Ex-ante economic evaluation: It is worth mentioning that the consultant in charge
of the ex-ante economic evaluation worked under the assumption that a greenfield Cidade
Velha ring road would be constructed in 2015, which would consequently divert traffic
from the Praia – Cidade Velha road, and more specifically from the section between the
intersection with the planned ring road and Cidade Velha, which explains why the initial
ex-ante evaluation had to split Praia-Cidade Velha in two sections: (i) one from Praia to
the intersection with the Ring Road, which is 3.2 km long; and (ii) from that intersection
to Cidade Velha, 2.8 km long.



                                            29
6.      As of now, the ring road construction is not built and not expected to be built in
the near future. Consequently, the ex-ante evaluation had to be corrected accordingly in
order to obtain comparable conclusions: the traffic that was expected to be diverted has
been “reallocated” to the Praia-Cidade Velha road for both the ex-ante and ex-post
analysis, and as a result, the traffic forecast used for the ex-ante evaluation has been
increased and the evaluation re-done.

7.     The ex-ante evaluation compared 4 alternative scenarios. Scenarios A, B and C
are based on the same solution for Section 1: 7 meters wide concrete asphalt pavement, 1
meter shoulder both sides also in concrete asphalt, project speed 70 km/hour and Internal
Roughness Index 2. As for section 2:
    • Scenario A considers a 5 meters wide concrete asphalt pavement, 1 meter wide
       cobblestone shoulders;
    • Scenario B as A but double bituminous surface dressing shoulders;
    • Scenario C considers a 7 meters wide cobblestone pavement and cobblestone 1
       meter wide shoulders.
    • Scenario D considers a 6 meters wide concrete asphalt pavement, 4 centimeters
       thick, 0.5 meters wide concrete asphalt shoulders the entire 6 km road (the same
       in both sections). Although the ERR for Scenario D was lowest, it was decided to
       opt for this option.

8.       The “traffic corrected” ex-ante ERR is 14% instead of the 12% that came out of
the initial “with ring road” ex-ante evaluation.

9.       Ex-post economic evaluation: the actual traffic measured in 2013 and 2014 is
10% lower (1490 VPD instead of 1655 in 2013) than the initial “without ring road”
traffic forecasts. On the other hand, the investment net of taxes proved to be marginally
lower than assumed in the ex-ante evaluation (CVE 322 million and CVE 330 million in
the ex-ante study). The final result is slightly lower ERR (11% ex-post).

10.     It is important to clarify that the final cost of the works includes additional works
that were not in the original scope of the contract. These works include (i) embankment
and excavation slope stabilization along on a length of 200 meters, which will definitely
have a positive impact on the sustainability of the investments and the resilience of this
road segment to heavy rains; and (ii) rehabilitation of the access road to the São Filipe
fortress; Cidade Velha is classified as a World Heritage site and the fortress is one of the
most visited places in the country. There is no denying that the above-mentioned extra
works will have positive economic impacts but they have not been quantified, As a result,
he ex-post 11% ERR is underestimated.

Maio / Alcatraz - Figueira

11.     The ex-ante evaluation assessed 3 scenarios for the rehabilitation of this 9-km
section. The differences among the scenarios only relates to the paving options:
    • SC1: cobblestone,


                                             30
   •   SC2: double bituminous surface dressing,
   •   SC3: concrete asphalt.

12.   The least costly solution was recommended, namely SC1, the estimated cost of
which was CVE 271 million. However, it was decided to opt for SC3, the final cost of
which was CVE 330 million.

13.     Maio Island has a huge touristic potential, which is not developed as of now, even
though various projects are being considered. With no further indication on the type of
tourism projects that may materialize and on their implementation schedule, it is delicate
to quantify the future economic benefits linked to this road, but it is likely to play an
important role in the attractiveness of the island for tourists. It is also worth noting that
this section is part of the network that will be maintained under 4-year performance-
based contracts through the recently approved Transport Sector Reform Project, which
will ensure the sustainability of the investment.

S. Vicente – Salamansa – N. Baia

14.     IDA financed Project is a small section (3 km) of longer road (Salamansa – São
Pedro), and connects Salamansa, a touristic village, to a hamlet in the north of S. Vicente
Island. The larger section of that road was financed by the Portuguese Cooperation; the
ex-ante economic assessment made before the works encompassed the whole road, and
the IDA-financed section was not evaluated separately, and rightly so as that small
section cannot be evaluated independently of the rest. As a result, it was neither possible
nor relevant to carry out a stand-alone ex-post evaluation for this 3-km section.

Conclusions

15.    A real and meaningful comparison between ex-ante and ex-post economic
assessments could be made only for Praia – Cidade Velha and Brava – Tarrafal.

16.     The ex-post ERR evaluation of Brava – Tarrafal is impacted by issues mentioned
elsewhere in this ICR and which affected most RSSP works, except the last ones; faulty
designs, insufficient monitoring and project management, changes in the design after
appraisal, cost overruns compared to the initial contract values (the average cost overrun
of the RSSP is 83%, and the average overrun for IDA-funded roads is 54%), and
unreliable traffic counts that were used as the baseline for traffic forecasts. All these
factors obviously impacted negatively the ERR of the RSSP works. However, most of not
all these issues are being solved: the last two contracts financed by IDA (Praia – Cidade
Velha, and two rural roads in Santiago island) did not suffer cost overruns, project design
and contract management has been substantially and gradually improved with the Road
Institute over the life of the project, and traffic counts are now automatized, which should
make large errors unlikely. This is reflected by the ex-post evaluation of the Praia-Cidade
Velha works, which were completed on schedule, with a minor cost increase due to
additional works that were not considered initially but which are definitely justified.




                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
           Names                            Title              Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Laurent Mehdi Brito         Consultant                        AFTPW
Bourama Diaite              Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPW
Carlos Fonseca              Consultant                        AFTCS
Serigne Omar Fye            Consultant                        CICAF
Linda Carole Glassiognon
                            Senior Program Assistant          AFCCD
Tiemoko
Abdelghani Inal             Consultant                        MNSSD
Carine Megueulle            Temporary                         AFTTR
Fily Sissoko                Manager, Financial Management     SARSQ
Supervision/ICR
Francesco Addis             Senior Resource Management Off    EXTEU
Akindele G. Beckley         Consultant                        AFTTR
Laurent Mehdi Brito         Consultant                        AFTPW
Bourama Diaite              Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPW
Sidy Diop                   Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPW
Ibou Diouf                  Sr Transport. Spec.               AFTTR
Papa Mamadou Fall           Transport Specialist              AFTTR
Carlos Fonseca              Consultant                        AFTCS
Serigne Omar Fye            Consultant                        CICAF
Linda Carole Glassiognon
                            Senior Program Assistant          AFCCD
Tiemoko
Farida Khan                 Operations Analyst                AFTTR
Medou Lo                    Consultant                        AFTN2
Gylfi Palsson               Lead Transport Specialist         LCSTR
John D. Riverson            Consultant                         IEGPS
Robert A. Robelus           Consultant                        AFTN2
Osval Rocha Andrade Romao   Financial Management Specialist   AFTMW
Youssouf Sakho              Consultant                         IEGPS
Kavita Sethi                Senior Transport Economist        AFTTR




                                             32
(b) Staff Time and Cost




                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle
                                     USD Thousands (including travel and consultant
                                                        costs)

Lending
  FY04                                                                          78.48
  FY05                                                                         147.07
                          Total:                                               225.55
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                          79.08
  FY07                                                                          62.72
  FY08                                                                         158.71
  FY09                                                                         97.244
  FY10                                                                           21.5
  FY11                                                                        107.478
  FY12                                                                         76.389
  FY13                                                                         77.404
  FY14                                                                         31.213
                          Total:                                              711.738




                                         33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


A beneficiary survey was not required for this project.




                                            34
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


No stakeholder workshop was undertaken.




                                          35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


1.    O ICR do Banco (ICR/BM), elaborado pelo Senhor José Chembeze, foi enviado
recentemente à UCP para parecer. Para além de fazer uma exposição das atividades
desenvolvidas, ele atribui classificações ao desempenho dos diferentes intervenientes. A
síntese classificativa é apresentada no quadro seguinte:

BANCO                  CLASSIFICAÇÃO         MUTUÁRIO            CLASSIFICAÇÃO
Qualidade inicial      Moderadamente         Governo             Moderadamente
                       Insatisfatório                            Insatisfatório
Qualidade           da Satisfatório          Agência          de Satisfatório
supervisão                                   implementação
                                             (UCP)
Desempenho global Moderadamente              Desempenho global Moderadamente
do Banco          Satisfatório               do Mutuário       Satisfatório



2.    Nos §§ 82 a 87 o autor do ICR justifica a razão pela qual o desempenho do Banco
Mundial no início do projeto é classificado como Moderadamente Insatisfatório.
Considera o analista que o Banco tem responsabilidades em relação às derrapagens
financeiras motivadas por anteprojetos deficientes, já que o Banco deveria ter procedido à
sua análise cuidada, detetado e alertado para os erros ou insuficiências. Na fase de
desenvolvimento do projeto o desempenho do Banco é considerado Moderadamente
Satisfatório. No §82 pode ler-se: “(…) the World Bank did not do the necessary
engineering reviews of the detailed project designs of civil works funded under the
project which lead to a major cost overruns and the need for a first AF”.

3.  No § 90 o desempenho do Mutuário (Governo de Cabo Verde) é classificado como
Moderadamente Insatisfatório, tanto à entrada como no desenrolar do projeto:

“ The GoCV performance has been rated as “Moderately Unsatisfactory” both at project
entry and project implementation”

4.   O desempenho da Unidade de Coordenação foi considerado Satisfatório.

5.  Não podemos concordar com a classificação de Moderadamente Insatisfatório dada
ao Mutuário (Governo) na fase de implementação.

6.    É verdade que no início ocorreram falhas nos processos de contratação e de
coordenação de obras, como é claramente exposto no ICR elaborado a pedido de Cabo
Verde (ICR/CV): (i) anteprojetos com fraca qualidade; (ii) mudanças de orientação com
exigência de trabalhos diferentes dos que estavam programados e mesmo
contratualizados (reabilitação de pavimentos em pedra que passaram a pavimentos em
betão betuminoso); (iii) fraca gestão e coordenação das obras, que se traduziu pela


                                           36
aceitação de obras com defeitos. Estes factos poderão, no limite, justificar a classificação
de Moderadamente Insatisfatório no início, à semelhança do Banco.

7.     Acresce que o Relatório deixa alguma dúvida sobre qual é a classificação
realmente atribuída à parte Cabo-verdiana. Se, por um lado, o já referido §90 classifica a
performance como globalmente moderadamente insatisfatória tanto à partida como na
implementação, o §96 vem reconhecer que a performance global do Mutuário é
globalmente moderadamente satisfatória. Parece estar em contradição com o §90.

8. Com efeito, e tal como o próprio ICR/BM reconhece e frisa, o Governo tomou em
tempo oportuno medidas que vieram permitir que o resultado final do projeto fosse muito
positivo. Com efeito:

     a.    Foi criado o Instituto de Estradas (IE) conforme previsto no Projeto RSSP e a
     partir do momento em que o IE foi plenamente responsabilizado pela gestão das
     obras as derrapagens financeiras deixaram de existir e a qualidade dos projetos e
     das obras foi significativamente aumentada;

     b.    Foi criado o FAMR, um Fundo Autónomo de 2.ª geração, plenamente
     operacional e que vem financiando os trabalhos de manutenção corrente e obras de
     emergência;

     c.    A qualidade global das estradas melhorou significativamente, como é aliás
     reconhecido pelo ICR;

     d.   Foram adquiridos contadores automáticos de tráfego que, através de contagens
     periódicas, vêm disponibilizando informação essencial para uma boa gestão
     rodoviária;

     e.    A base de dados rodoviária instalada no IE permite o conhecimento do estado
     de conservação dos diferentes órgãos das estradas e o planeamento das intervenções
     corretivas;

     f.      Os contratos REMADOR, (Reabilitação e Manutenção com base no
     Desempenho e Obrigação de Resultados) iniciados pelo IE, constituem uma
     evolução muito importante e que deverá prevenir a ocorrência de situações como as
     descritas em relação ao início do projeto. Com efeito, o empreiteiro que ganha um
     concurso para uma reabilitação, será responsável, durante os 4 anos seguintes ao
     fim da obra, pela Manutenção Corrente, sendo de sua responsabilidade
     deteriorações das estradas que sejam devidas a defeitos construtivos. Com este novo
     quadro consegue-se maior responsabilização das firmas construtoras e uma
     melhoria da qualidade da construção.

9. De realçar ainda que os indicadores que permitiram a quantificação das metas do
RSSP mostraram fortes melhorias: as populações estão menos isoladas (melhor




                                            37
acessibilidade) viajam mais para os mercados, centros de saúde, etc., e por preços, em
termos reais, mais baixos.

10.    Em suma, os principais objetivos do RSSP foram atingidos, o que é o resultado de
um forte empenho do Governo, das instituições e de toda a estrutura técnica de Cabo
Verde.

11. Acresce que, como o ICR/BM mostra no Quadro G, realizaram-se 16 missões de
Supervisão pelo Banco Mundial e em 15 a classificação atribuída pelo Task Team Leader
(recorde-se que houve quatro TTL’s) foi Satisfatória e apenas numa Moderadamente
Satisfatória. É o próprio Banco que sempre reconheceu a qualidade do desempenho do
projeto.

12. Nestes termos o desempenho do Mutuário ao longo do projeto só pode ser
classificado como Satisfatório ou mesmo Altamente Satisfatório.




                                          38
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Available




                                    39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1. Road Sector Support Project Appraisal Document for Republic of Cabo Verde,
   Report No. xxx. World Bank, April 22, 2005

2. Aide Memoires: Implementation Supervision mission RSSP

3. Complete copies of ISRs: November, 2005-May, 2013

4. RSSP Mid-term Review Report, Praia January 2008

5. Contagem de Tráfego. Apuramento e Conclusões, Instituto de estradas de Cabo
   Verde, 2012

6. Relatórios Trimestrais – Gabinete de Coordenação do Projecto, Praia, Cabo Verde




                                         40
MAP- São Vicente




       41
MAP- São Nicolau




       42
MAP- São Tiago




      43
MAP- Maio




   44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 40983
                                                                                                                                                                  WESTERN
                                                                                   23˚10’                                                                         SAHARA

                                                          CABO VERDE
                     ROAD SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT                                                                                                                              MAURITANIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MALI
                                                               MAIO                                                                                CABO
                                                                                                                                                   VERDE
                                                                                                                                                                 SENEGAL
                                                                                                                                             THE GAMBIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BURKINA
                                PROJECT ROAD                                                                                                      GUINEA-BISSAU                                                    FASO
                                                                                                                                                                              GUINEA
                                                                                 ELEVATIONS IN METERS:
                                MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GHANA
                                                                                            400                                                             SIERRA LEONE                          CÔTE
                                SIDE-ROAD/BEATEN TRACK                                      200                                                                                                  D´IVOIRE
                                                                                            0
                                ROUGH TRACK                                                                                                      ATLANTIC                        LIBERIA
                                                                                                                         15˚20’
                                PATH/TRAIL                                                                                                       OCEAN                                                                  TOGO
15˚20’
                                RIVERS

                                MAIN CITIES                                                                                                                        Santo Antão
                                                                                                                                                                                           24W                        23W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  17N
                                NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                           WIND
                                                                                                                                                                                         WA R
                                                                                                                                                                           Santa Luzia
                                                                                                                                                                                              D       ISL                   Sal
                                                                                                                                                               São                                          AN
                                                                                                                                                             Vicente                                             DS
                                                                                                                                                             For detail see          São Nicolau
                                                                                            Pedro Vaz                                                        IBRD 40985              For detail see
                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 40984
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Boa Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16N

                                                                                                                                                                 CABO VERDE
                                                                                                                                                                                         ANDS
                                                                                                                                                                                   D ISL                          Maio
                                                                                                                                                                               WA R São
                                                                                                                                                                      LEE                                          For detail see
                                                                                                                                                                               Fogo        Tiago                   main map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15N
                                                                                                        Santo António                                             Brava                                      Praia
                                                                                                                                                                                           For detail see IBRD 40982
                   Porto Cais                                                Cascabulho
                                                                                                                         Praia
                                   Morrinho                                                                             Goncalo




                                                                                                                             Pedro Vaz




                             Calheta
                                                                                                                                    Alcatraz


                                                                                                            Monte Branco                 Pilão
                                                                                                                                         Cão




                                   Morro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15˚10’
                                                                                                                                    João
15˚10’
                                                                              Figueira da Horta




                                                                                                                           Ribeira Dom João

                           Vila do Maio
                           (Porto Inglêz)                                                   Barreiro


                                                                                                          Lagoa


                                                                                                                                                      0      1         2            3            4          5
                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                KILOMETERS
                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
 GSDPM
 Map Design Unit
                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                      23˚10’

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MAY 2014
