Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15104-ALB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALBANIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
MARCH 15, 1996
Agriculture and Urban Development Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lek
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1990    1991     1992      1993    1994      1995
Leks per US$:    8        14       75      100      94.7      93.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ALBANIAN GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AAC        Annual Allowable Cut
APFDP        Albania Private Forestry Development Program (USAID)
APO        Agricultural Program Office in MAF
CEP       Committee for Environmental Protection
DG        Director General
DGFP        Directorate General of Forests and Pastures
EA       Environmental Assessment
EBRD        European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
FAO/CP        Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FC       Forest Corporation
FD       Forest and Pasture Department
FMP        Forest Management Plan
FPRI       Forest and Pasture Research Institute
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
IS      International Shopping
MAF        Ministry of Agriculture and Food
NBF        Non-Bank Financed
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NS       National Shopping
PEMU        Project Environmental Management Unit
PD       Project Director
PHRD        Policy and Human Resource Development Grant (Japan)
PMU        Project Management Unit
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PY       Project Year
SDR        Special Drawing Right
TA       Technical Assistance
USAID        United States Agency for International Development



ALBANIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary   .iii
Chapter I. Introduction .                     ..............................................  I
Chapter II. The Forest and Pasture Sector ...................                                                                           3
A. Forests and Pastures in the Economy .................                                                                     3
B.  Forest and Pasture Resources  ....................................   3
C.  Forest Management, Harvesting, Forest Roads and Wood Industry   ............   6
D. Trade, Marketing and Pricing of Forest Products  .......................                                                  9
E.  Forest and Pasture Policy and Legislation   ............................    10
F.  Institutional Framework    ......................................    11
G.  Financial Aspects of Forest Sector Development  .........                             ..          ............    13
H.  Policy Issues and Reforms                          .....................................                                15
I.  Rationale for IDA  Involvement   ..................................                                                    15
Chapter III.        The Project            .....................                       .......................    16
A.   Project Objectives and Summary Description  .........................    16
B. Detailed Features .                  ...........................................  16
Institutional Reform    ......................................    16
Project Investments  .......................................    19
C.  Project Cost and Financing   ....................................    22
D.  Fiscal Sustainability  .........................................    25
E.  Project Procurement Arrangements   ...............................    25
F.  Ida Credit Allocation and Disbursements  ............................    30
G.  Environmental Impact   ...........                             ............................    32
Chapter IV.    Project Implementation                     ..................                     ...................    35
A.  Responsibilities and Management   ................................    35
B.  Financing Mechanism   ........................................    38
C.  Technical Assistance and Training  ................................    39
D.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation  ................................    40
E.  Auditing and Reporting Requirements  ..............................    41
F.  Implementation and Supervision Plan   ..............................    42
Chapter V.    Project  Benefits and Risks  ...................................    43
A.  Project Benefits   ...........................................    43
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal and post-appraisal mission that visited Albania in July and October 1995,1
Erspectively.  Mission members comprised Ewald Goetz (Task Manager, EC2AU), Fmngois Wenc6lius (EC2AU), William
Beattie (LA2NR), Mark Koamo (EC2AU), Kathryn Funk (EC2AU), Stefano Pagiola (ENVDR); and Consultant Allen Jones
(Institutions).  Anne de Ligne and Phillip Brylski (FAO  staff and consultant, mspectively) contributed to aspects of technical
assistance and environmental assessment. William Beattie (LA2NR) and Robert Kirmse (LAIER) were the Peer Reviewers. |
Rory O'Sullivan was the Division Chief and Kemal Dervil was the Department Director. l



ii
B. Markets and Prices  .........................................  45
C. Financial and Economic Analysis  ................................  46
D. Risks ..................................................   48
Chapter VI.  Agreements Reached and Recommendation  ........................  50
TEXT TABLES:
Table 2.1: Structure of Agricultural and Forestry Activities, 1990 ....................  3
Table 2.2: Annual Authorized Removal of Wood (volume in '000 m3) .................  5
Table 2.3:  Floor Prices for Standing Timber, 1994 and 1995 (US$ equivalent per m3) ... ....  9
Table 2.4: Expenditure by DGFP, 1991 - 1994 (in millions of US$ equivalent) ...    ........  14
Table 2.5: Fiscal Income from Forest Management, 1991 - 1994   ...................  14
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component ...........................  23
Table 3.2: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure ...................  23
Table 3.3: Sources of Project Financing  ...................................  24
Table 3.4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements ......................  28
Table 3.5: Estimated IDA Disbursements ....................................  31
Table 3.6: Disbursement Categories ......................................  32
Table 5.1 Financial and Economic Rate of Return .............................  48
Appendix I  - Policy Matrix
Appendix 2  - Evolution of Albania's Future Forest and Pasture Administration
Appendix 3  - Project Implementation Schedule
Appendix 4  - Project Performance lndicators
Appendix 5  - Supervision Plan
Appendix 6  - Summary Cost Tables
Appendix 7  - Major Procurement Packages
Appendix 8  - Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan
Appendix 9  - Action Plan to Reduce Illegal Forest Harvesting
Appendix 10 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS:
IBRD 27266 Land and Forest Cover
IBRD 27265 Forest Management Areas
SUPPORTING VOLUME
Annex A       The Development of Albania's Forest Administration
Annex B       Improved Forest Management
Annex C       Rehabilitation of Forest Roads
Annex D       Communal Forest and Pasture Management
Annex E       Protected Areas Management
Annex F       Training, Education and Research
Annex G       Project Management and Technical Assistance
Annex H       Project Implementation Plan
Annex I       Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex J       Trade Policy and Fiscal Sustainability
Annex K       Environmental Assessment
Annex L       Detailed Cost Tables



iii
ALBANIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:           Government of Albania
BENEFICIARY:        Ministry of Agriculture and Food and selected communes
AMOUNT:             SDR 5.5 million (US$8.0 million equivalent)
TERMS:              Forty years maturity with a ten year grace period. Credit proceeds would be lent
to the Government at the standard IDA charge.
PROJECT
OBJECTIVE:          The proposed project would have three principal objectives: (i) restore degraded
State-owned forest and pasture areas and promote their sustainable use; (ii)
promote the conservation of natural forest ecosystems; and (iii) take the initial
steps in the transition of the forestry/pasture sector to a market economy,
separating commercial from regulatory functions and establishing mechanisms for
self-financing of the commercial activities.  The project would support
institutional and policy reforms of Albania's forest and pasture sector and provide
resources for investments in the five components described below.
PROJECT
DESCRIPI'ION:       The project, to be implemented over six years (including a one-year pre-project
phase), would contain the following five investment components:
*     Institutional Development, including (i) reorganization and strengthening
of DGFP by decentralizing its management structure to the prefecture
level, developing capacity to manage its new roles in communal forest/
pasture and general pasture administration, and introducing skills
required for operating in a market economy; (ii) support for training,
education and research in forestry and pastures; (iii) project management;
(iv) project environmental management; and (v) technical assistance.
*     Improved State Forest Manaaement, including: (i) strengthening the
capacity of field services to manage and protect State forests;
(ii) resuming forest management planning; (iii) reforestation of sensitive
areas; (iv) pre-commercial thinnings; and (v) forest protection and pest
monitoring.
*     Forest Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance, involving the rehabilitation
and subsequent maintenance of 350 km of degraded existing forest roads.



iv
*      Management of Communal Forest and Pasture Areas involving: (i) the
implementation of a pilot project in three communes; (ii) development
of improved management plans for forests and pastures in 27 additional
communes; (iii) funding of selected communal investment projects; and
(iv) establishment of a data base on communally managed forests and
pastures.
PROJECT BENEFITS
AND RISKS:           Benefits. In relation to the principal project objectives the project's activities are
expected to generate the following benefits: (i) economic production benefits
from  restoring degraded forest and pastures;   (ii) direct and  indirect
environmental benefits from preventing losses from soil erosion, and enhancing
biodiversity and ecosystems protection and preservation of protected areas; and
(iii) institutional and policy improvements that are expected to lead to higher
degrees of efficiency and sustainability of use of a public renewable resource,
with provisions to safeguard stakeholder interests and the creation of positive
externalities through continued, but more focused public sector involvement.
Key indicators for progress would be: control of illegal harvesting operations;
application of new-style forest management methodology that would be geared
to multiple and sustainable forest use; achievement of the sector's financial
viability which in turn will depend on competitive marketing and trade
liberalization; and creation of an autonomous Forest Corporation to deal with
commercial, efficient exploitation of the resource.
Risks. Project risks regarding technical aspects of forest management, road
rehabilitation and communal forest and pasture management are considered low.
Albania possesses the basic expertise to deal with technical aspects of forest use.
The main risks of the project relate to uncertainties about the implementation of
the institutional and policy reforms. Critical elements are, first, the State must
regain control over forest management and exploitation. To this end, the project
focuses on the implementation of a monitorable action plan to reduce illegal
logging and the early strengthening of the administrative capacity through the
provision of physical inputs and staff reorientation and training. Second is the
need to achieve financial viability and sustainability within the sector. To this
end, market-oriented procedures, both in domestic marketing and external trade,
would be introduced to help overcome the current under-use and under-valuation
of the forest resource. Third is the need to improve the technical and economic
efficiency of forest and pasture operations. To this end, the project would
support the separation of commercial forest and pasture operations as the
responsibility of a financially autonomous enterprise from the regulatory and
policy activities that would remain part of the Government administration. The
risk to achieve the policy and institutional goals is mitigated by a relative long
adjustment and reform period of up to three years. This period would be used
to build capacity for dealing with the issues, achieve consensus within Albania
about the longer term arrangements for use of the forest and pasture resources,
and refine concepts and planning for the policy, legal and institutional actions.
This process would be helped by a proposed high-level seminar in year two to
review strategies proposed for the development of the sector, and the mid-term
review of the Project. The latter would be used to assess progress made in
resolving the above critical aspects and, depending on the outcome and
achievements, to confirm or adjust the design and scope of project activities, in



v
particular the more heavy forest and road rehabilitation investments, as well as
communal investments, planned for the second half of the project.
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST (in US$ millions):
Component                                        USS MILLON EQUIVALENT           %      % TOTAL
FOREIGN     BAsE
LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL   EXCHANGE   COSTS
A. Institutional Development                      0.7       4.4       5.1       86        28
B. Improved State Forest Management               5.2       2.9       8.1       36        44
C. Rehabilitation of Forest Roads                 1.5       0.9       2.4       36         13
D. CommunaJ Forest and Pasture Management         2.1       0.1       2.3        6         12
E. Protected Areas Management                     0.2       0.2       0.4       50         2
Total Base Costs                          9.7       8.5      18.3       47       100
Physical Contingencies                            1.0       0.6        1.5      37          8
Price Contingencies                               1.5       0.3       1.8       16         10
Total Project Costs                      12.2       9.4      21.6       43
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
FINANCING PLAN (US$' millions):
Funding Source:                                              TOTAL
IDA Credit                                                      8.0
Italy Govemment Loan                                            8.5
Italy Govenmment Grant                                          2.5
Switzerland Govemment                                           0.5
Grant
Albania Govenmment Budget                                       2.1
Total                                                          21.6
Note: Rounded figures.,
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS (US$ millions):
US$ Million Equivalent
FY 1997      FY 1998       FY 1999      FY 2000       FY 2001      FY 2002
Annual                         1.2           1.2          1.6           1.6          2.0           0.4
Cumulative                     1.2           2.4          4.0           5.6          7.6           8.0
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN: Weighted average of components:   49%
Average without roads component:          16%
POVERTY  CATEGORY:    Not Applicable.  The project is a targeted intervention to promote
environmentally sustainable development of renewable natural resources.
PROJECT ID NUMBER:  8271






ALBANIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Albania is going through a difficult transition from a strictly enforced centrally planned economy
to democratic and market economic conditions. Major structural adjustments involving agriculture,
enterprises and banking, and the provision of Government services, have been completed or are under
way. Reforms of economic policies have led to widespread liberalization of pricing, external trade, and
domestic marketing, making Albania one of the most open economies among the countries in transition.
Land and related assets that once were nationalized are now almost completely divested, either through
restitution to former owners (in urban areas), or through distribution to individual farming families
(former cooperative or State farm agricultural land). Preparations are under way to give full ownership
rights to the new land holders. A Mass Privatization Program has been initiated to privatize most of the
remaining State-owned enterprises and assets.
1.2    Forestry is a sector in Albania that, so far, has not benefited from the above structural changes
and that has been rather negatively affected by the transition. While the harvesting and processing
activities in the sector now take place through privatized or newly formed enterprises, forest management
is still bound into an old-fashioned State bureaucracy. Forest management and protection have been
particularly affected by the sudden end of the former command and control approach. Uncontrolled
harvesting has developed, continuing administered trade, pricing and marketing procedures generate
inefficiencies and distortions, and fiscal austerity has reduced the budget for the forest administration to
the point where it can only cover the payment of salaries and a few operational costs. A large backlog
has developed for investments in updating forest management plans, regeneration of harvested forest
areas, maintenance and protection of forests, rehabilitation of forest roads, replacement of worn-out
transport and equipment, upgrading of offices, and introducing more efficient market and incentive-
oriented procedures.
i.3    By law, Albania's forests, as well as pasture areas, are State-owned.' Forests comprise some one
million ha, or 38% of the country's land area, and together with over 0.4 million ha of State pasture
areas, about half of Albania's land area is administered by the Directorate General of Forests and Pastures
(DGFP) in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF). In spite of this vast natural resource base, the
contribution of forests and pastures to the country's economy has remained negligible. The sector
continues to be oriented toward meeting domestic requirements (which during the economic transition
phase shrank). Criteria of economic efficiency are only slowly taking hold in forest and pasture
management. Yet the potential exists to restore the sectors' productive capacities. The sector could not
only become self-financing, but a net contributor to the Government. It could also play important roles
for rural employment, industrial development, and for generating environmental benefits.
I Some 60,000 ha of State forest have been identified to have been owned by private persons or institutions before 1945 and
are proposed for restitution. The forest law (1992) and the pasture law (1995) permit State forest and pasture land to be transferred
to communes for usufruct.



Albania Forestry Project                 Page -2 -                       Staff Apprail Report
1.4    Against this background, the Government of Albania has requested IDA assistance to help finance
this project. The project is based on a FAO/CP Forestry Sector Review in 1992 and project preparation
in 1993-1994, also supported by FAO/CP. An ecological survey of selected high forests was completed
in March 1995. The assessment of the existing forest cover using remote sensing was completed in May
1995. The environmental assessment was carried out between May and October 1995 and the report
issued in February 1996. Project appraisal by IDA and the cofinancing agencies was completed in
October 1995. The originally proposed farm forestry component of the project is now included under
an ongoing USAID-supported Private Forestry Development Program (APFDP). A pre-project phase
being financed with a $600,000 advance under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF), and also supported
by a Japanese PHRD Grant, is being implemented since March 1995.



ALBANIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
CHAFrER II. THE FOREST AND PASTURE SECTOR
A. FORESTS AND PASTURES IN THE ECONOMY
2.1    The contribution of forests to the national economy is currently extremely low and greatly
reduced from its potential contribution. In 1990, forestry accounted for only 6 percent of the combined
value of output of agriculture, livestock and forestry although forest land occupied 40 percent of the total
land area. Livestock accounted for 36 percent of the output value; however, statistical data for livestock
is not broken down between output from agricultural land, from natural pastures and meadows, and from
non-land based animal husbandry such as pigs and intensive poultry.
Table 2.1: Structure of Agncultural and Forestry Activities, 1990
SUB-SECTOR                                  LAND USE       VALUE OF OUTPUT
MILLION
'000 HA   %        LEKs      %
TOTAL AGRICULTURE & FORESTRY               2,875    100      8,172    100
F-orests                                   1,155     40      0,483      6
Grassland and Unproductive Land--Livestock  707      25      2,957     36
Agriculture Areas and Fruit Trees           949      33      4,732     58
Other Land & Water Bodies & Related Vegetation  64    2
B. FOREST AND PASTURE RESOURCES
2.2    Resource Base. Albania's total land area of 28,750 km2 is divided into three main ecological
zones: the coastal plain zone, with a southern area and a central and northern area; the hilly transition
sub-mountainous zone; and the mountainous zone. A more precise division shows five phyto-climatic
areas: (i) the Mediterranean shrub zone with broadleaved and conifer areas, (ii) the oak zone, (iii) the
beech zone, (iv) the fir zone, and (v) the alpine zone. Forests are mainly concentrated in the hilly and
mountainous zone, as can be seen in Map IBRD 27266 at the end of this report. Climatic and soil
conditions in Albania are favorable for forest and pasture growth. The annual precipitation varies
considerably from about 800 mm/year in the hills and the coastal plains to over 2,000 mm/year in the
mountain ranges. There is a dry period in the summer in the Mediterranean part of the country.
2.3    Albania has important and diverse forest resources. According to the 1995 reconnaissance survey
and forest cover map carried out by FAO2, the total area of forest cover in Albania is an estimated
1,155,000 ha. This area includes (i) garrigue and maquis (310,000 ha), (ii) high scrubs and degraded
2 Prparation of a Forest Cover Map and Reconnaissance Forest Inventory of Albania. Technical Report (GCP/ALB/002/IDA)
FAO Environmental Management Infonnation Service, Sustainable Development Division. May 1995.



Albania Porestxy Project                    Page -4 -                         Staff Appraisal Report
forest coppice (340,000 ha), (iii) coniferous high forest (117,000 ha), and (iv) broadleaved forests
(398,000 ha), including both high forest and coppice. Broadleaved forests are mainly oak and beech,
while coniferous forests are predominantly black pine with small patches of silver fir and mountain pine.
Of the whole forest area, about 0.9 million ha, or 88 percent, is considered "productive" forest. The
remaining 12 percent forest area is non-productive, although it fulfills protective and social functions.
2.4    Albania's pasture land comprises about 406,000 ha. Sixty percent of that area is classified as
"winter pastures" covering lowland areas up to 1,500 m altitude; the remainder is "summer pasture" at
higher altitudes (up to over 2,500 m) including alpine vegetation. The importance of the pasture resource
is reflected in the fact that some 60 percent of the Albanian population is linked to pastoralism and
herding, mainly of sheep and goats.
2.5    Forest Types. The main types of Albanian forests are the following:
*      High Forests. They are managed according to traditional methods with thinnings and
regeneration felling aimed at value production. Regeneration is mainly done naturally
by leaving seed trees. When satisfactory seed trees are not present, regeneration is done
through replanting. High forest species are mainly beech (36%), black pine (23%), oak
(17%), maritime pines, and other broadleaves and conifers. The rotation period of high
forests is about 100-120 years;
-      [Coppice Forests. The main objective of coppice forests is to produce biomass for fodder
(from  oaks) and fuelwood through periodic cuts on a 40-50 year rotation.  The
dominating species is oak (82%), with small areas of beech (6%), and other broadleaves
(11%);
e      Shrub Forests. They produce fuelwood and fodder from periodic cuts and are used for
grazing livestock. Shrubs consist mainly of hornbeam (36%), arbutus (23%), and other
broadleaves. Arbutus produces an excellent fuelwood. The recommended rotation is 20
years;
*      Forest Plantations. Reforestation by planting started in the 1960s. Over 100,000 ha
were reforested by the end of 1991. Mostly pine species such as P. halepensis, P. nigra,
P. pinaster, P. radiata and P. pinea, were planted. The broad-leaved species planted are
Laurus nobilis, Juglans regia, Acer spp., Fraxinus spp., Tilia spp., and Betula spp. The
plantations were mainly established in the areas degenerated by over-exploitation and
heavy grazing; and
*      Farm Trees. Farm trees are scattered or in small plots on agricultural land (former State
and Cooperative farm land) and around houses. They represent more than 11,000 ha
equivalent, and mainly consist of poplars in the lowlands. Although almost all roadside
trees were cut down during the political change, interest in planting and maintaining trees
on the newly privatized farms is high.
2.6    Standing Timber Stock. During the review of the forestry sector by FAO/CP in early 19923,
the total standing stock was an estimated 81 million m3, of which 64 million m3 was in high forests,
10 million m3 in coppice forests, and 7 million m3 in high scrubs, maquis and guarrigue. This data was
3Albania - Forestry Sector Review and Forestry Project. Reconnaissance Mission. FAO/CP June 18, 1992.



Albania Foresty Project                        Page -5 -                            Staff Appraisa Report
based on a combination of figures compiled from the management plans of the high forest and results
from the inventory carried out in 1985 on the other forest types.
2.7    Age Distribution of Forest Trees. Commercial harvesting in high forests only started in the
1940s. The present age distribution in these forests is therefore uneven. Young stands of less than
20 years of age and mature stands of over 80 years are over-represented. Of the total area of beech, as
much as 71 percent is over 80 years and 39 percent over 120 years. In coppice forests, young forests
under 10 years are over-represented as well as forests over 40 years. According to statistics, the age
distribution in shrub forests is balanced.
2.8    Ownership. Forests and pastures are State-owned, except small, privately owned areas. The
1992 forest law and the 1995 pasture law both allow usufruct of State forest and pasture areas by
communes in their vicinity. The formal process of transferring forest and pasture land to communes has
not yet started, while some informal privatization of pastures is going on. The Government is restituting
to former owners some 60,000 ha of forests, and also additional pasture areas which had been
nationalized under the communist regime. Trees planted on former State and cooperative farms, except
orchards and wineyards, were distributed to farming families with the agricultural land, and are now
privately owned.
2.9    Forest Use. Albanian forests are used for the production of wood and non-wood products,
principally for the domestic market. Annual removals of wood during 1971-1980 averaged 4.6 million
-n3, about half as roundwood, one third as fuelwood, and the remainder as saw logs. In the 1980s, cuts
have decreased to between 2.5 - 2.9 million m3, with fuelwood taking up a larger share. During the
transition period in the 1990s, official removal of all wood has been declining from 1.5 million m3 in
1991 to below 0.6 million m3 in 1994. For the 1995/96 harvesting year, 0.6 million m3 (of which 0.4
million m3 comprised of timber and 0.2 million m3 of fuelwood) was offered for sale in auctions, but
less than half of this volume was sold due to lack of demand. However, simultaneously, self-collection
and illegal harvesting have increased. For instance, recorded illegal cuts amounted to 0.746 million m3
in 1991, 0.915 million m3 in 1992, and 0.380 million m3 per year in 1993 and 1994. According to
appraisal mission estimates, recorded and unrecorded illegal cuttings have likely exceeded legal harvesting
in 1995.
Table 2.2: Annual Authonzed Removal of Wood (volume in '000 m3)
Type of Wood     Average  1981   1984   1985   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
1971-80 
Roundwood          2,330   1,239   1,323   1,460   1,358   1,344   1,133    724    503    419    277
Fuelwood           1,668    836    964   1,087    993    989    884    594    454    373    199
Sawlogs             722    403    359    373    366    356    249    130          49      46      78
Total              4,660   2,478   2,646   2,920   2,717   2,689   2,266   1,448   1,006    838    554
Source: Post-Prepartion Mission Report by FAOICP-Office National des Forets (Febniary 13, 1995)
Note: This data is not fully consident with the earlier FAO/CP Preparation Report (page 9).
* 1994: estimate based on first nine months.
Note: Al figures, except for 1994, do not include "peasnt wood" that is sold directly to the vilagers. The amount of
"peasant wood' is only known for 1993, when it amounted to 190,000 mn. The table does not include illegal cuts.
2.10   Degradation of Forest Resources. Albanian forest resources have degraded significantly over
the last five to 10 years. As part of the reconnaissance survey and forest cover map mentioned above
(see para. 2.3, footnote 2), FAO has made an assessment of forest change between 1988 and 1993. This



Albatia Fonutfy Project                   Page -6 -                        Staff Appraial Report
assessment is for over 10 percent of the total forest cover in two representative areas. In these areas the
total forest cover has decreased by an average of 15 percent over a period of five years; the reduction
in area for the different forest types varies from one area to another. The likely reduction of standing
stock that goes with the reduction of forest cover is not precisely known.
2.11   The degradation of forest has been mainly caused by important, but unrecorded, human pressure
on forest resources. It includes uncontrolled wood-cutting and overgrazing, and is mostly concentrated
in the last five years. Field observations in 1995 suggest, however, that an increasing share of illegal
cutting is used as industrial timber. In parallel with degradation of forests, investments in forest
management have diminished considerably since the mid 1980s. Since 1990 they have been discontinued
as a consequence of dwindling Treasury resources allocated to the forestry administration.
C. FOREST MANAGEMENT, HARVESTING, FOREST ROADS AND WOOD INDUSTRY
2.12   Forest Inventory and Management Plans. Forest inventory and subsequent development of
forest management plans (FMPs) used to be carried out by the Forest Inventory and Management Section
of the Forest and Pasture Research Institute (FPRI). For the high forest, inventory was carried out on
one tenth of the total area every year, with a sampling intensity of 10 percent; FMPs were then prepared
for the inventoried area. Thus, about 40,000 ha of high forests were planned for the next 10-year period
every year. FMPs were developed at the level of management units, with an average size of 3,000 ha
(ranging from 1,000 to 5,000 ha). The main aim of forest management planning in the high forests is
to achieve an even age distribution in the management unit following the sustained yield principle. The
annual allowable cut is calculated based on the current annual increment of that management unit. The
development of FMPs has stopped since the late 1980s, which leaves about 75 percent of the high forests
in need of updating their FMPs. For the coppice and shrubs, a nationwide inventory over the total area
was made every 10th year, with a sampling intensity of 5 percent; a simplified management plan was
developed subsequently. The last inventory and simplified management plan of the coppice and shrubs
was done in 1985. No resources are available to update the simplified management plan of coppice and
shrub forests, which was due in 1995.
2.13   Forest Regeneration. About 90 percent of the forests in Albania are natural, and used to be
regenerated naturally. In the high forests, natural regeneration is carried out over 20-25 years for broad-
leaved species and 15-20 years for conifers. Natural regeneration was usually achieved through a
successive cutting program including: (i) a preparatory cutting that removes 25-30 percent of the growing
stock; (ii) a seed cutting, about 8-10 years following the preparatory cutting, that removes 25-30 percent
of the existing growing stock after a good seed year has been observed; and (iii) a final cutting that is
carried out when regrowth reaches about one meter height, 10-15 years after seed cutting. Careful
implementation of this program, together with routine support to natural regeneration including
complementary seeding, has been discontinued over the last five to 10 years. In about 15,000 ha of
harvested high forests, the regeneration is either incomplete or even absent. In the coppice, shrub, and
maquis, regeneration is achieved by coppicing, after clear cutting of the stand. The success of
regeneration of coppice and shrubs has been negatively affected in areas close to villages under high
pressure from livestock and fuelwood collection.
2.14   Forest Maintenance. Regular maintenance of young stands in the high forest, covering about
60,000 ha, has not been carried out in the 1990s. Pre-commercial thinnings have not been carried out,
and commercial thinnings have been carried out at a very low rate, representing only 5 percent of the
total harvest. This practice does not comply with FMPs under which thinnings should be carried out at



Albania Foreatry Project                  Page -7 -                         Staff Appmi6a Report
least three times (i.e., between the ages of 20-40, 41-60, and 61-100), removing 20 percent of the
growing stock each time. However, this rate has not been observed.
2.15   Forest Protection. Monitoring of the health and protection of Albanian forests against pests and
diseases has been inadequate. The most serious insect attacks are caused by Thaumatopoea pityocampa,
the pine processionary moth that has spread over about 45,000 ha in black pine stands since it first
appeared in 1985. Other important insect pests include Dioryctria splendidela and Evetria buoliana in
pine plantation, and Tortrix viridana and Lymantria dispar in oak stands. Serious fungi attacks are caused
by Endothia parasitica on chestnut, and Microsphaera alphitoides in oak stands.
2.16   Forest Harvesting Levels. As indicated above (para. 2.9 and Table 2.2), the level of actual
harvesting in the past has tended to exceed the AAC calculated by the FPRI. Most of this over-harvesting
has taken place in the coppice and shrub forests, but high forests close to habitations have also been
affected. In view of the obvious high utilization of coppice and shrub forests, and the fact that they have
not been completely degraded, there are reasons to believe that their production capacity has been
underestimated in the calculation of the AAC. However, in 1994 and 1995, the breakdown and
restructuring of Government-owned harvesting and processing enterprises, combined with severe budget
constraints of DGFP and a closed domestic market, led to the inverse situation that actual legal harvesting
has dropped significantly below the AAC.
2.17   Besides the over-exploitation in the past, there have been imbalances in the concentration of the
fellings. About 1 I percent of the growing stock is standing in areas not accessible by forest roads. This
amounts to more than nine million m3 of industrial wood on 66,000 ha. However, even the forests
inaccessible by forest roads have not remained fully intact as most of these forests have been exploited
by the local people.
2.18   Harvesting Methods.  (i) Most of the wood harvesting in State forests is carried out in
mountainous areas, where the terrain is difficult, as 80 percent of the forests grow on slopes of 20-50
percent inclination. Harvesting is based almost exclusively on the assortment method where the trees are
made into short assortments in the forest before off-road transportation. Average saw logs are four
meters long. Big dimension plywood logs can be even shorter. The minimum length is one meter for
fuelwood, parquet blocks, pulpwood and similar assortments. Long lengths are seldom used due to
difficulties in loading and unloading. (ii) Farmers and villagers use both the assortment method and the
stemwood method, where only the delimbing is done before off-road transportation. Fuelwood is mostly
hand carried or loaded on donkeys. Besides high productivity over short distances, donkeys and mules,
mostly used for skidding stems for construction timber, can move in conditions which are impossible for
skidders and other machines.
2.19   Forest Roads. The total length of Albania's forest roads is 3,518 km (as of 1993) from which
63 percent (2,237 km) has been built in high forests (1,727 km permanent, 510 km non-permanent). In
the coppice forests the length of roads is 1,281 km (508 km permanent, 773 km nonpermanent). Shrub
forests are served mainly by public roads because they are located near villages and along public roads.
As shrub land has little economic significance, no special roads have been made for them, although access
roads can cross them. Practically all forest roads were constructed after the 1950s at the rate of nearly
100 km annually. Forest roads have been constructed according to Albanian road classes IV and V. On
average, the density of forest roads is 3.5 m/ha. However, the density is normally increased to 15-20
m/ha in areas where final harvesting is taking place.
2.20   The main problem regarding forest roads in Albania is the degradation of the existing network
of class IV and V roads. The actual degree and extent of forest roads degradation is being surveyed by



Albania Forestry Project                     Page -8 -                         Staff Appraisal Repoit
the DGFP. At this stage, an estimated 25 percent of the existing network needs rehabilitation work in
order to limit further degradation. Another problem is that many areas are not accessible to truck
transport and commercial harvesting due to lack of suitable roads and steep slopes. Some of these forests
are therefore mature, or over-mature, considering the rotations normally applied in Albania. The FPRI
has estimated that there are at least 66,000 ha of comparatively large contiguous areas which could be
opened for harvesting. The growing stock of these areas exceeds 13 million m3 of which the share of
industrial wood is more than 9 million m3. However, some of these areas without access roads are
expected to harbor significant environmental values and interests. While the "1995 Ecological Survey
of High Forest Areas4" identified and categorized the future use of these areas, detailed site-specific
environmental assessments need to be carried out for those areas that could be opened up for future
harvesting. However, in view of the current lack of capacity in the forest administration to control illegal
logging, update and implement FMPs, and carry out environmental assessments and effective
environmental management, construction of new forest roads and opening up of new harvesting areas is
not included under the current forestry project.
2.21   Harvesting Enterprises. The former State-owned logging enterprises at the district level under
DGFP have all but collapsed in the transition process towards a market economy. New private sector
enterprises, often formed by employees and with assets of the former DGFP enterprises, have emerged
and carry out harvesting operations under competitive bidding for forest lots (auctions of stumpage
wood), in accordance with DGFP's forest management plans and under technical supervision by DGFP
district staff. However, due to the small number and size of competent harvesting and trading
enterprises, and the resultant lack of competition, wood is mostly sold at the minimum price set by DGFP
(see Table 2.3 below).
2.22   Wood Processing Industry.  In the past, about 35 wood processing enterprises had been
producing various products, including pulp and paper, sawn timber, veneers, plywood, particle board and
chipboard, parquet and furniture. The installed capacity of these wood industries (originally about one
million m' of industrial wood was processed annually) is in excess of the sustainable forest supply
(currently estimated at 0.6 million m3 of industrial timber). However, plant closures and managerial
difficulties during the transition and privatization, combined with old fashioned technology, production
methods and products, have resulted in significant under-use of this installed capacity. In 1995, the
domestic industry only processed some 0.1 million m3. Many enterprises have closed down. Lack of
coordination between the felling quota (AAC) and the actual processing capacity of the industry has also
led to serious wastage of raw material, as logs have been felled but not processed in time to prevent
decaying. Furthermore, haphazard trade policies which included export taxes, quotas, bans and other
restrictions, have aggravated the situation of over supply of the domestic market with industrial wood.
Most of the enterprises have now been privatized and a few of them entered into joint ventures with
foreign partners. The remaining ones are slated to be liquidated or included in Albania's Mass
Privatization Program being implemented in 1995 and 1996. The wood processing subsector is an area
of interest to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) that employed consultants
to identify a possible private sector wood processing project, but which did not progress beyond
identification.
4   Ecological Survey of Selected High Forests of Albania. Dalip Habili, Forest and Pasture Research Institute; Ferdinande
Bego et al., Institute of Biological Research; Petrit Hoda, Faculty of Natural Sciences of Tirana University; and Phillip Brylski,
World Bank consultant. March 1995.



Albania Foreatry Project                  Page -9 -                         Staff Appraisal Repoit
D. TRADE, MARKETING AND PRICING OF FOREST PRODUCTS
2.23   External Trade. Imports of timber, both unprocessed and processed, are uneconomic due to low
domestic raw material prices and an import tariff (30%) on furniture. Albania's exports of forest
products were affected negatively by haphazard and inconsistent policies in the recent years. In early
1995, export quotas and license requirements were in place for logs, firewood, charcoal, edgings and
beams. In July 1995, these quantitative restrictions were replaced by an export ban on logs, poles, sawn
wood and fuelwood, while exports of all other forest products, including charcoal, were liberalized. The
restrictive trade regime prevents Albania from realizing the revenue and benefit potential from its forest
resource. It also tends to preserve imbalances in spatial resource use and technical inefficiencies in the
logging and processing industries. It provides the wood-processing industry with a non-targeted subsidy
in the form of cheaper wood. The elimination of trade barriers to allow domestic prices to rise close
to international levels is needed to make Albania's forestry sector economically and financially viable,
in particular, in a situation where the domestic industry is temporarily unable to process all timber that
is and can be harvested sustainably within the AAC, provided that suitable environmental safeguards are
being introduced. These environmental safeguards are currently not in place due to lack of capacity to
control illegal logging. In this situation, temporary trade restrictions, although imperfect and distortive,
can contribute to reduce the risk of over-exploitation of the resource. In the medium-term, the rather
distortive tradition to attempt regulating harvesting through trade barriers should be replaced by efficient
forest management and liberalization of external trade, including tariffs that are consistent with those for
other sectors of the economy.
2.24   Domestic Marketing and Pricing. The most common method for timber sale by DGFP is the
auction of standing timber in relatively small areas, typically less than 500 ha, that are accessible by
existing forest roads. Floor prices (see Table 2.3 below) are applied that have been derived by estimating
the cost to the State for producing the relevant category of wood over a given rotation period and taking
account of "reasonable international standards." Due to lack of demand and competition (para. 2.21
above), most sales are in fact closed at or slightly above these floor prices.  In 1994 and 1995, the
average floor price in Albania was about $13 per m3, which compares to stumpage values of $40 in
Central Europe, and up to $60 in Southern Europe.
Table 2.3: Floor Prices for Standing Timber, 1994 and 1995 (US$ equivalent per in)
TiMBER SPECIES        FLOOR PRICE
Beech                            12
Pine                              15
Oak                               14
Fir                              16
Poplar                           10
Timber, weighted average          13
Source: FAO/CP-ONF, 1995; DGFP/PMU, 1995
2.25   Concessions. The other method of forest exploitation, which has, however, no clear legal
framework in Albania, consists of long-term contracts ("concessions") which combine timber harvesting
with road building in larger areas (up to 3,000 ha) that do not have road access. This method, which
does not involve a price bid for the standing timber, has so far only been used in isolated cases. The
contract is awarded on the basis of the quality of the proposal for forest management. The winning
contractor then purchases timber at existing floor prices adjusted downwards to reflect the magnitude of



Albania Forestry Project                    Page -10 -                          Staff Apprisal Report
estimated road building costs. A concession has the main advantage that it removes the need for outlays
by the Government for investments needed to open up new areas, and that it generates additional revenues
from harvesting. However, this method in its present form suffers from the main disadvantage that the
criteria by which proposals for concessions are to be evaluated are not easily measurable, and the
selection of contractors is bound to raise questions about the impartiality of the process. Meticulous
administrative processes are also required to avoid environmental risks.  Albania's forest and
environmental administrations are presently clearly not capable to properly handle contracts of this nature.
2.26   In the longer term, the principle of auction sales of timber, if truly competitive and accompanied
by an improved monitoring capacity to safeguard environmental values and long-term productivity of the
forest, should provide reliable indicators of the financial or economic viability of timber production in
each forest unit. It would be a flexible method to deal with issues of spatial variations in costs and also
the cost inter-dependence between fuelwood and timber production.
E. FOREST AND PASTURE POLICY AND LEGISLATION
2.27 Previous Forest Policies. Key aspects of Albania's forestry policy in the 1980s, though not fully
implemented, were: (i) reduce felling to a level which is compatible with sustained growth of the forest;
(ii) redirect harvesting from low yielding forests to over-mature stands; (iii) increase forest plantations,
especially coniferous ones; and (iv) reduce waste and inefficiency in logging and wood processing by
improved technology. The underlying law (Law No. 6607 of 1968, modified in 1983 and 1990) was
designed for the operation of a centrally planned system of forest management. Authorizations were
required for any forest related activity, i.e., logging, trade of wood, grazing and construction works in
the forest. This policy was limited to the production aspect of forestry and did not touch on other
relevant aspects, such as forest ownership and user rights, the role of the State in forestry activities, and
people's involvement.
2.28   Forest Legislation.   The Law on "Forestry and the Forest Police Service" (No. 7223 of
October 13, 1992) is today Albania's primary law on forestry.  It places greater importance on
environmental issues and economic management. The law defines the country's forest estate ("forest
fund") which comprises State, communal and private forests. State forest management remains the
responsibility of the forest administration, though the law does not specify the methods. Management
of private forest is not covered under this law. Communal forests are a newly introduced category that,
while still State-owned land, have the possibility of management by communes, jointly with the forest
administration. Private forests are those found on private land.5 Various subsidiary texts to the forestry
law have also been issued. These include regulations for the exploitation of forests, decisions on the
setting of stumpage and other forest fees, guidelines for auctions of standing wood, instructions for
protection against forest fires, a regulation containing the principles for the selection and establishment
of protected areas, and a regulation for the use of forests for recreational purposes. A "Wild Fauna and
Hunting Protection" law (No. 7875 of November 23, 1994) contains environmental provisions for wildlife
which are not contained in the forest law. It provides for the preparation of wildlife management plans
and constitutes an appropriate framework.
S In addition to existing pnvate (agricultural) land with forest flora, the Govemment has amended (May 1995) the forest law
to allow restitution of an estimated 60,000 ha of forst lands that were nationalized during the communist regime (1945-1989) (see
also pam. 2.8).



Albania Foraty Project                     Page -II -                         Staff Appraisal Report
2.29   Pasture Legislation. The Law on "Pasture and Grazing Land" (No. 7917 of April 13, 1995)
is relevant for land covered with grass and shrub used for pasture and mowing that belongs neither to the
agricultural land fund nor to the forest fund. It divides pastures and meadows into (i) State pasture land
administered by DGFP; (ii) State pasture land for general use, administered by the corresponding
municipality and commune; and (iii) private land, including group ownership. This Law goes further
than the above forest law towards decentralizing user rights to local government institutions and allowing
participation of the affected population. Communes are fully responsible for the technical and financial
management of communal pastures. Communes can also establish ten-year lease contracts with persons
interested in using communal pastures. DGFP's role in the system of communal and private pastures is
to approve changes in the use of such land, provide technical assistance (extension services) against
payment, and to protect pastures and meadows from damages.
2.30   Environmental Legislation. A Law on "Envirorunental Protection" (No. 7664 of January 21,
1993) is relevant to forestry and pastures since it requires environmental impact assessments and licenses
for activities that may have a significant impact on the environment. Environmental licenses, issued by
the environmental authority (see para. 2.38 below), are required for a wide variety of activities such as
building of infrastructure, exploration and exploitation of soil, forests, wildlife and fish, and dealing with
hazardous substances. Draft regulations have been prepared for environmental impact assessments
which, additional to the necessity of issuing licenses, are to be prepared at the request of the
environmental or local authorities, principally by the Committee for Environmental Protection (CEP).
These regulations provide for public participation at each step in the process. The environmental law also
requires compliance by Albania with "generally accepted norms and principles" of international
environmental law. A draft law on the "Protection of Nature and Biological Diversity" is under
discussion in Albania which should reflect the national strategy on nature and biodiversity conservation
for which preparations have been initiated in Albania.
2.31   Key Policy Objectives. Albania's draft Constitution reconfirms State ownership over forest and
pasture land that has historically always been a national asset. The basic legal and policy framework for
the economic and sustainable development of the sector is in place. However, the forest law needs fine-
tuning to clarify both the production and conservation objectives of forest management, user and
ownership rights, in particular with the intended transfer of forests to communal management, and the
sustainable and multiple use of forests on private land. The country also lacks an explicit statement of
the principles of its forest and pasture policy, that specify its long-term goals, principles and operational
directions.  However, policy objectives can be derived from the above legal framework, the actions
already taken, and also from the Government's involvement in the design of the proposed project. The
national objectives are seen in the intention of the Government to develop the sector in three major
thrusts: (i) develop the sector's economic potential on a sustainable basis; (ii) ensure that sound
environmnental and nature conservation criteria are applied in this process; and (iii) reduce Government
involvement in the sector through divestiture of enterprises and functions, transfer of user rights, and
institutional reforms.
F. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
2.32   Directorate General of Forests and Pastures (DGFP). Forests and pastures in Albania are the
responsibility of DGFP which reports to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Wood processing is part
of the portfolio of the Ministry of Industry, Transport and Trade, after an intermittent assignment to
DGFP in 1991 and 1992. DGFP has its headquarters in Tirana, with operational sections for control,
pastures, fauna, forest protection, forest extraction, silviculture, and economics and privatization.
Headquarters staff totals 32, of whom, 23 are university graduates and five technicians. Until 1994,



Albania Forestry Project                     Page -12 -                           Staff Appraisal Report
forest operations in the field were managed from 36 district forest offices, but now 12 prefectures exist
be.tween headquarters and the districts with forest staff included.6 Below the districts are 124 sector forest
offices, each averaging about three "forest economies" and comprising 2,500 - 3,000 ha of forests.
District offices are responsible for implementing forest management plans and applying regulations. In
particular, they are in charge of establishing forest plantations, marking trees for exploitation, organizing
sales and auctions and supervising harvesting operations. They also have a policing function and are to
enforce the forest legislation. Furthermore, DGFP district offices are in charge of managing national
parks and other protected areas which coincide with specific forest sectors. In 1995, DGFP field offices
at the district level and below had a staff of 1595, of whom 425 were university graduates and 991
technicians.
2.33   Until recently, DGFP oversaw 18 State pasture enterprises. In addition to its forest offices, these
pasture enterprises had a staffing of some 270, of whom 86 were professionals and 162 technicians. With
the passage of the pasture law, the structure of separate pasture offices is being discontinued. About 70
percent of the pasture staff will be integrated into the forest districts. The remainder will be assigned to
communes, in particular, in the areas of winter pastures that are expected to be transferred to communes
over time.
2.34   Forest Management Implementation. The overall capacity of DGFP to manage State forests
has been considerably hampered due to harsh financial constraints since the early 1990s. Although
Albanian foresters are well trained, and used to manage State forests satisfactorily in the past, they lack
the basic equipment, infrastructure, and financial resources to perform their duties as managers of state
forests. These duties are administering the State forest and pastoral domain, implementing forest
management plans, organizing wood harvesting and marketing, organizing grazing on forest and pasture
land, carrying out investments in forests and pastures, caring for nurseries, enforcing environmental law
and policies, managing hunting and fishing, and administering budgets and revenues, and employment
of staff and workers.
2.35   Forest Research.
(a)    The Forest and Pasture Research Institute (FPRI) is responsible for: (i) applied research
activities in the field of forestry and pasture management, (ii) conducting forest
inventories, and (iii) preparing forest and pasture management plans. Administratively,
the Institute is attached to the Directorate of Science and Qualification at the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food. It has five research sections, the subjects of which are: forestry
and genetics, management, inventory, harvesting and pastures, protection (pests, fires),
and oil-bearing and medicinal plants. In 1993, the Institute had 49 professional staff, but
its activities have been very much reduced in recent years due to lack of funding. In
1994, the Institute, under contract with the World Bank, carried out the Ecological
Survey of Selected High Forest Areas that significantly influenced the design of the
forestry project by eliminating interventions to open up new harvesting areas.
(b)    The Forestry Faculty of the University of Agriculture in Tirana is also involved in
forestry research.
2.36   Forestry Education and Training. High level education in forestry is the responsibility of the
Forestry Faculty in the University of Agriculture in Tirana which also includes the faculties of agronomy,
6 The 12 prefect forest offices will also double as district forest offices, thus reducing the latter to 24.



Albania Forestry Project                   Page -13 -                         Staff Appraisal Report
veterinary and economics. The Faculty was founded in 1959 and, until the early 1990s, trained more
than 800 forest engineers. The curricula are organized over 5 years according to two profiles: (i) forestry
generalists, with a sub-specialization in silviculture or forest exploitation; and (ii) wood technology
specialists. The target is to graduate 20 students a year for the first profile and 10 a year for the second.
2.37   Intermediate training in forestry is the responsibility of the Forest Technician School located in
Shkoder. The present situation of the school is a cause for concern, as it lacks means to perform. Until
1994, the school had the same curricular paths as the Forestry Faculty, but now there are three divisions
or subject areas: (i) silviculture and greening; (ii) forest harvesting; (iii) furniture. Each division recruits
40-50 new students per year who have completed 8 years of primary education. There are 31 teachers,
of whom 6 are forestry engineers and one is a wood industry specialist. The length of curriculum is 5
years for the first two divisions and 4 years for the third. About 15-30 percent of the students who
graduate from the Technician School enter the Forestry Faculty in Tirana for further academic education.
2.38   Environmental Institutions. The Committee for Environmental Protection (CEP) is the central
authority for coordination of environmental affairs. Administratively, CEP is placed under the Ministry
of Health and the Enviromment. CEP gives final approval for environmental impact assessments. CEP
has a small professional staff of eight, including the chairman and seven specialists divided over three
directorates.  Forestry is grouped under the Natural Resource Protection and Soil Rehabilitation
Directorate. It is the Directorate's responsibility to monitor government activities in its functional areas
and register objections when environmental concerns are flouted. The Directorate head also represents
environmental interests on a commission that select larger forest exploitation projects.  CEP was
strengthened in 1994 with the establishment of Environmental Regional Agencies at the Prefectures.
Other environmental institutions of note include the Museum of Natural Sciences, the Faculty of Natural
Sciences at the University of Tirana, and the Institute for Biological Research. There are also a number
of environmental NGOs: the leading ones active in public awareness efforts are the "Society for the
Protection and Preservation of the Natural Environment in Albania", and the "Albanian Society for the
Protection of Birds and Mammals."
2.39   Local Government. Under Albania's decentralization policy, a new structure of central and local
government is being established to give more autonomous decision-making, management and
responsibility to communes (and municipalities for the large cities). Twelve prefectures, appointed by
the Council of Ministers, represent the central Government within new administrative-territorial units and
coordinate and supervise the work of ministries. Communes that comprise two or more villages are the
lowest level of local government with legal status and own budget. They are represented by communal
councils whose members are elected directly by the population. Districts are made up of several related
communes and are represented by district councils that are also directly elected. New pasture legislation
has now been passed allowing for the transfer of State assets to communes, and the rules for managing
communal assets are under preparation. Concerning forests and pastures, the elected council has the
responsibilities of managing the resources of the commune or municipality; of taking the measures for
the protection and revival of the environment; and of encouraging private initiatives.
G. FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
2.40   Fiscal Expenditure.  DGFP as an agency of MAF is bound by the Government's financial
mechanisms that require it to transfer all its income from sales, leases and services to the Treasury, and
to operate on an annual budget that is decided by the Council of Ministers and transferred to DGFP
directly from the Treasury (by-passing MAF). Until 1990, the total annual budget of DGFP amounted
to the equivalent of about US$75 million, of which about US$10 million was allocated to forest



Albania Forestry Project                      Page -14 -                            Staff Appraisad Repoft
management. However, at that time the budget included the forest enterprises responsible for forest
management, and the logging, distribution and wood processing enterprises, but excluded pasture
enterprises, which were under a separate department of MAF.  In 1992, with processing enterprises
transferred to the Ministry of Industry, the annual budget dropped to the equivalent of about US$3 million
and remained at a level of between US$2-3 million until 1995. Compared with the State budget
expenditure totaling the equivalent of about US$680 million in 1994, DGFP expenditure of about
US$2.6 million for forestry in the same year represents a very small portion of Albania's public
expenditure, absorbing less than 0.4 percent. From these DGFP expenditures, US$2.5 million was
allocated for recurrent expenditures, of which two-thirds for personnel costs, and only about
US$0.1 million, or a negligible amount, for investments (see Table 2.4 below).
Table 2.4: Expenditure by DGFP, 1991 - 1994 (in millions of US$ equivalent)
1994
EXPENDITuRE (MILION LEKS)                1991         1992         1993     (EMMATE)
* Salaries and Social Insurance Contributions  6.43     1.92        0.96         1.80
* Other Operating Costs                    3.43         0.29        0.58         0.84
Total Recurrent Expenditures               9.86         2.21         1.52        2.64
* Forest Investments                       4.57         0.72        0.11         0.07
* Pasture Investments                                               0.27         0
* DGFP Equipment                           0            0           0.12         0.04
Total Investment Expenditures              4.57         0.72        0.50         0.12
Total Expenditure (million USS equivalent)  14.43       2.80        2.02         2.76
2.41    Fiscal Income.  90-92 percent of the income from  forestry consists of wood sales, and the
remainder comes from hunting, non-wood products and fines. Largely because of the decline of the
domestic market demand in the transition period (para. 2.16 above), the wood sales revenues dropped
significantly from over US$5 million equivalent in 1991 to an estimated US$1 million in 1994 (see Table
2.5 below).
Table 2.5: Fiscal Income from Forest Management, 1991 - 1994
(In millions of US$ equivalent)
Income from Forest Management                                                 1994
1991      1992       1993    (estimnate)
Wood Sales (Tirnber and Fuelwood)             5.71       2.63       1.43       0.84
Other Products (Hunting, Non-Wood, Fines)     5.57       0.49       0.12       0.21
Total Income (million USS equivalent)        11.29       3.12       1.55       1.06
2.42   Fiscal Balance. With the exception of 1992, fiscal expenditures for forestry during these years
of transition have exceeded fiscal income from forest activities, making the sector a drain on central
Government resources. Shifts have also taken place in the composition of expenditures. In spite of high
inflation until 1993, the total budget for forestry has remained fairly constant in nominal terms, while the
share of salaries has increased at the expense of investments. As a consequence, investments in forestry
operations such as afforestation, complementary plantings, cultural works and improvement thinnings
were drastically reduced. The continuation of administered prices, with stumpage fees and fuelwood



Albania Foreay Project                     Page -15 -                         Staff Appraisal Report
prices below international levels, discrepancies between harvested and sold wood volumes, and increased
harvesting outside DGFP's control have negatively affected the income situation.
H. POLICY ISSUES AND REFORMS
2.43   The key policy issues that concern the forestry sector are summarized in the policy matrix
presented in Appendix 1. The matrix also proposes the actions that need to be taken to achieve the
objectives that are derived from the identified deficiencies. The main issues are:
(a)    Deficiencies in forest conservation and management that: (i) do not prevent illegal
harvesting of industrial timber and over-harvesting of coppice and shrub forests; and
(ii) reduce the sustained productivity of wood and non-wood products;
(b)    Lack of financial resources due to:  (i) barriers to international trade leading to
underpricing of domestic products; and (ii) under utilized potential for revenue
generation; and
(c)    Slow adjustment of the forest administration to a market economy due to: (i) a human
resource base that is not prepared for the efficient implementation of productive and
protective forestry activities; and (ii) inadequate facilities and programs for education,
training and research.
I. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.44   The updated Country Assistance Strategy of the Bank (1995) emphasizes infrastructure
development and selected projects for poverty alleviation as priorities for development. The forestry
project would make a major contribution toward effecting change in the forestry/pasture sector at the
national level, in particular introducing principles of use of natural resources that are both sustainable and
market-oriented, and redefining the public and private roles. The serious lack of domestic fiscal
resources affecting all sectors in Albania, will require substantial foreign assistance, both financial and
technical. IDA is in a position to help fill this gap and mobilize further external assistance. Italy has
been providing credit for emerging private forest enterprises and is committed to cofinance the forestry
project with a soft loan and a technical assistance grant. Switzerland is also committed to provide
technical assistance support for certain forestry and pasture activities in connection with the project. In
parallel, USAID has started a private forestry development program (APFDP) that provides policy advice
and monitoring services for the sector, supports farm forestry, and fosters communal forest and pasture
management, the latter, similar to the IDA project component. EBRD is interested in supporting the
development of the wood industry. Thus, IDA's involvement in Albania's forest and pasture sector
would mainly be to: help develop a sound overall policy and institutional framework, re-orient education
and training for forest professionals, improve State forest management and use to increase its productive
capacity and halt the ongoing degradation, introduce communal management of forest and pasture areas
under a participatory approach, and improve management of protected areas on a pilot basis, while
ensuring sound environmental practices in all activities.



ALBANIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
CHAPTER III.   THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND SUMMARY DESCRIPTION
3.1    Objectives. The project would have three principal objectives: (i) restore degraded State-owned
forest and pasture areas and promote their sustainable use; (ii) promote conservation of natural forest
ecosystems; and (iii) take the initial steps in the transition of the forestry/pasture sector to a market
economy, separating commercial from regulatory functions and establishing mechanisms for self-financing
of the commercial activities.
3.2    Summary Description. The project would support institutional and policy reforms of Albania's
forest and pasture sector and provide resources for investment in the following five main components:
(i) institutional development of the forest/pasture administration including related training, education and
research and the establishment of a project environmental management unit; (ii) improved management
of State forests; (iii) rehabilitation of forest roads; (iv) management of communal forest and pasture
areas; and (v) management of protected areas.
B. DETAILED FEATURES
Institutional Reform [See also the chart in Appendix 2, and Annex A of the Supporting Volume]
3.3    Approach. Over a three year period, the project would support the transition from the current
departmentally organized, all-encompassing forest and pasture administration, to a new institutional setup
that would separate the commercial from the policy/regulatory/public goods functions. This proposed
new institutional setup was preferred to the alternative of maintaining, and developing over the long-term,
the Government line department for all forest and pasture activities.  The separation will allow
commercial forestry operations to be placed in a commercially oriented entity, tentatively named "Forest
Corporation," where these functions can be performed in a more flexible, efficient and responsible way.
Efficiency improvements would result in part from the pressures of a market economy, and in part from
the participation of a broader range of stakeholders in the administration of natural resources who would
be represented in the Corporation's Board of Directors. The key to success will be that this new entity
(i) mainly acts as a management agent for the forest and pasture resources entrusted to it by the State and
uses private sector contractors and services on a competitive basis for implementation of its operational
plans; (ii) is directed by the stakeholders of the resources it exploits which not only include a broader
range of Government agencies beyond the Ministry of Agriculture, but also the private sector, affected
communes and villages, and NGOs; and (iii) maintains flexibility as to its structure, ownership and
operational approaches to adjust to evolving changes of socio-economic and technical conditions. The
creation of the proposed autonomous Forest Corporation will depend on the resolution of a number of
current issues affecting the sector's efficiency which include the clarification and further improvement
of the legal framework (forestry law, biodiversity law), implementation of policy reforms (control of
illegal logging and introduction of improved forest management, competitive timber marketing and
pricing, liberalization of timber trade, para. 3.9-3.11 below) and the establishment of an effective



Albania Foreutry Project                  Page -17 -                       Staff Appraisal Report
environmental management system (para. 3.6 below). The proposed separation of functions in the forest
administration will also, on the other hand, allow concentration of non-commercial services in a smaller,
tighter government line unit that ensures continuity of policies, regulatory control, provision of public
services and funding of targeted interventions. In view of the uncertainties regarding the resolution of
the current sector issues, project activities have been dimensioned and phased in a way that, except for
development of institutions, staff and procedures and the implementation of pilot projects, the bulk of the
investments in forest and civil works in the State forests and communes will be made after progress made
in resolving the above sector constraints and in defining the future institutional structure has been assessed
during the project's mid-term review (para. 4.12). During negotiations of the credit, agreement was
reached on the phased approach for project implementation and the criteria and timing for the
establishment of the future Forest Corporation.
3.4    Forest Corporation. At about the end of year three of the project, DGFP is expected to
transform into a managerially and financially autonomous Forest Corporation (FC). FC would likely be
established in accordance with Albania's Law on State Enterprises. It would operate along commercial
principles and be principally responsible for the efficient management and exploitation of productive State
forests and pastures. FC would retain the forest and pasture revenues that currently accrue to Treasury.
FC would finance its operating and investment expenditures from these revenues, except for specific
national development projects such as the Forestry Project, which would continue to be funded from the
Treasury under contractual agreements. From its revenues, FC would make contributions to the Treasury
in the form of a fixed annual fee (rent) or a variable charge for the products it sells based on volume or
value (for instance, stumpage fee for timber, or royalty), to compensate the State for the use of nationally
owned productive assets. Furthermore, FC would be expected to pay dividends to its shareholders (the
Government and/or private investors) and corporate or income tax on its profits, currently 30 percent.
FC would also be subject to the usual sales taxes or value added tax for its turnover.
3.5    Forest and Pasture Department. In parallel with the establishment of FC, administrative
functions of policy development for the sector; regulatory control; planning, monitoring and evaluation
of the sector's activities; provision of public services to sector agents (information, extension, education,
research); management and assistance for communal forest and pastures; and protected areas management
would continue as departmental Government services in a streamlined Forest and Pasture Department
(FD) within the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF) with funding provided from the central
Government budget.
3.6    Forest Environmental Management. In addition to the above future structure of the forest
administration, the project would establish within the Agricultural Program Office of MAF a Project
Environmental Management Unit (PEMU) (see also para. 4.1 (c)) that would remain separate both from
overall project management as well as from DGFP and the future FC. Its primary responsibility would
be to promote the conservation of the nature in the forests by monitoring the implementation of the
recommendations and mitigating measures under the Government endorsed Ecological Survey and
Environmental Impact Assessment reports. To facilitate this task, PEMU would monitor environmental
developments and adherence to standards in the forest and pasture sector, establish and operate an
environmental data base for the sector, and prepare periodic status reports including a baseline report on
environmental conditions of forests and pastures in Albania. It would also provide guidance and support
to project management (Steering Committee and PMU, see para. 3.8, and 4.1(a) and (b) below) and to
DGFP. Furthermore, PEMU will be used to channel technical assistance to the Committee for
Environmental Protection under the Ministry of Health and Environment to help fulfil CEP's institutional
role in respect of the project. Over time and in line with Government policies, PEMU would be expected
to assume a broader environmental management responsibility for all of MAF's activities. During



Albania Foreaty Project                  Page -18 -                       Staff Appraisal Report
negotiations of the credit, agreement was reached on the terms of reference for a PEMU in MAF, and
its establishment no later than January 1, 1997.
3.7   Interim Period and DGFP Revenue Account. For the interim period of two to three years until
the establishment of FC, during which the project would help make forest/pasture operations
progressively viable financially and environmentally, and during which the ultimate design of Albania's
future forest administration and its financial relationships with the State and the markets will be refined
and agreed, DGFP and Treasury would establish a "Revenue Account" within DGFP. This Account
would remain outside project funding flows and would initiate the re-direction of investment resources
by accumulating and channelling an increasing share of Treasury revenues from forest and pasture sales
towards specific direct investments by DGFP in the following year, as approved by the Project Steering
Committee (para. 3.8 below). A simple pre-determined formula, starting at 50/50 in the fourth quarter
of 1996, would be used to split these revenues between Treasury and DGFP and increase the share of
DGFP by five percentage points in each of the subsequent years. Treasury would continue to receive part
of the sector revenues and would continue to fund through the Government's central budget mechanism
DGFP's recurrent costs (staff salaries, staff benefits, and operating costs corresponding to the "without
project" situation), including DGFP's non-_ommercial and regulatory services. During negotiations of
the credit, an assurance was obtained that the draft decision or law to establish the Revenue Account
would be provided to IDA by July 15, 1996.
3.8    Project Steering Committee. A Steering Committee would be established within MAF that
would be responsible for the allocation of project resources and also of the local investment resources
generated under the DGFP Revenue Account mechanism (para. 3.7). The Steering Committee's voting
members would comprise the Minister of Agriculture as Chairperson, the Director of the Agricultural
Program Office (APO), the Project Director (PMU), the Head of PEMU and the Director General of
DGFP. In addition, the Steering Committee would draw on the expertise of non-voting, non-permanent
members representing a broad range of public and private sector interests in forestry and pastures,
including the Ministry of Health and Environment, Ministry of Construction and Tourism, local
governments, private sector, and non-governmental organizations. The Steering Committee would also
rely on a Forest Policy Advisory Group that has been established within DGFP under the USAID-funded
APFDP.
Policy Reforms [See also the Policy Matrix in Appendix 1, and Annex J of the Supporting Volume]
3.9    Control of Illegal Forest Harvesting. Illegal timber and fuelwood harvesting activities have
increased in some locations in recent years, resulting in revenue loss for the Government, wastage of
timber, and devastation of harvesting areas. Illegal logging needs to be kept in check to justify
investments in forest management, road infrastructure and protected areas. Vehicles and communications
equipment were provided to DGFP in the pre-project phase with funding from the PPF to help build its
capacity for improving the policing of forests and controlling timber transport at road check points and
sawmills. During negotiations of the credit, agreement was reached on the content and targets of DGFP's
Action Plan to Reduce Illegal Forest Harvesting (a summary is in Appendix 9). The Plan also includes
training and motivation workshops for DGFP staff, publicity campaigns to obtain the cooperation of the
local population, and close collaboration with the law enforcement and judicial authorities.
3.10   Marketing and Pricing Reforms. Competitive procedures (auctions) for the domestic marketing
of forest and non-forest products and the use of pasture areas would be further improved under the
project. All remaining administratively set prices would be liberalized (fuelwood prices had been
liberalized in April 1994). However, floor prices for auctions of timber and fuelwood would be



Albania Foreatry Project                  Page -19 -                        Staff Appaiaal Report
maintained based on current replacement costs for these products. Improvements would be introduced
for the composition of the timber auction commissions, the process of marking trees for harvesting, and
the timing and location of auctions. During negotiations of the credit. agreement was reached on (i) the
adoption of improved marketing and pricing procedures for timber and fuelwood; (ii) their introduction
no later than July 1, 1996; and (iii) maintenance of such marketing and pricing procedures, acceptable
to IDA.
3.11   Trade Policy Reform. The current ban on the export of logs, poles, sawn wood and fuelwood
(following a period of export quotas, licensing and export taxes until June 1995) limits the volume of
forest sales, depresses domestic prices, and is thus one of the major factors preventing the sector from
becoming financially viable. These conditions have contributed to the under-use of harvestable timber
resources, low fiscal revenues and investment, and the preservation of wasteful and inefficient
technologies. In order to facilitate more efficient use of Albania's forest resources and enhance the
overall financial viability of the sector, exports of forest products should be fully liberalized by
eliminating the existing trade ban. This liberalization would, however, be contingent upon DGFP
regaining effective control over the forests (para. 3.9 above) and the updating of the annual allowable cut
(AAC). Free external trade and competitive domestic marketing, combined with initial institutional
reforms and strengthening to ensure environmentally sound and sustainable forest production, would lead
to higher domestic prices (and higher marketed volume within the allowable cut). This in turn would
allow to increase the floor price of stumpage, currently very low, and generate substantial additional fiscal
revenue. While quantitative restrictions for exports of forest products would be eliminated (in effect,
control of trade would be replaced by harvesting control in the forests), the re-emerging timber industry
would continue to be protected by import tariffs on processed timber products. During negotiations of
the credit agreement was reached that IDA and the Government would exchange views on the adequacy
of DGFP's control over forest harvesting no later than during the project's mid-term project progress
review (see also para. 4.12).
Project Investments
3.12   The project, to be implemented over six years (including a one year pre-project phase funded by
the PPF and with TA support by a Japanese Grant), would contain the following five investment
components:
(1)   Institutional Development ($5.1 million base cost including $2.95 million in grant funded
technical assistance). This would include the following activities:
(a)    Reorganization and Strengthening of DGFP ($0.6 million base cost) [For details
see Annex A of the Supporting Volume]: DGFP, as part of MAF, would be
reorganized by (i) decentralizing its management by establishing an administrative
structure at the prefecture level to better serve district and sector offices with
personnel and finance management, marketing, engineering design and forest
management planning; (ii) developing capacity to manage its new roles in
communal forest and pasture management, and in pasture administration and
development in general, through integration of management functions of the
former pasture enterprises into the mainstream forest administration; (iii)
developing market economy skills fcr bidding, contracting, marketing, financial
management and involvement of the private sector through information and
training campaigns; and (iv) establishing and operating a "Revenue Account" to
generate local resources for forest investments outside the project (para. 3.7



Albania Foreatry Project                  Page -20 -                       Staff Appraisal Report
above) and adjust DGFP's budgeting and accounting processes for future self-
financing. The purpose of the DGFP reorganization is to prepare the forest
administration for its future role and division into an autonomous Forest
Corporation (FC) and a remaining forestry and pasture department (FD) in the
MAF (para. 3.3 above).  Support provided under the project would include
office, transportation and communications equipment for DGFP headquarters,
and related incremental operating expenditure;
(b)    Support for Training, Education and Research in Forestry and Pastures
($0.7 million base cost) [For details see Annex F of the Supporting Volume]:
(i) In-service training for forestry and pasture staff at senior and mid-levels
would be provided through project-financed service contracts, mainly with the
Forest Faculty at the Agricultural University of Tirana ($0.05 million). In
addition, provision would be made for other local and foreign training
($0.18 million). (ii) Education for forestry technicians would be supported by
funding courses, equipment, and training of trainers at the Forest Technician
School at Shkoder ($0.07 million). (iii) Forestry and pasture research capacity
would be strengthened through upgrading the facilities and funding of foreign
training of staff of the Forest and Pasture Research Institute ($0.4 million);
(c)    Project Management ($0.6 million base cost) [For details see Annex G of the
Supporting Volume]. A temporary Project Management Unit (PMU) would be
responsible to plan, coordinate, manage, fund and monitor all project activities
in accordance with work programs and budgets approved by the Project Steering
Committee (para. 3.8 above);
(d)    Project Environmental Management ($0.2 million base cost) [For details see
Annex G of the Supporting Volume]. A Project Environmental Management
Unit (PEMU) would be established within the Agricultural Program Office of
MAF to ensure that project implementation is environmentally sound and to
promote conservation of nature in forests (para. 3.6 above and 4.1 (c) below).
The Head of PEMU would be a member of the Project Steering Committee and
supported by local and international consultants, training, transport equipment
and operating funds. In addition, technical assistance and training would also be
provided to the Committee for Environmental Protection (CEP) to strengthen its
capacity to prepare guidelines for environmental monitoring and environmental
impact assessments of the sector; and
(e)    Technical Assistance ($2.95 million total cost) [For details see Annex G of the
Supporting Volumel. Technical assistance (TA) would be provided, in addition
to some PPF-funded TA, from two grant resources: (i) the Government of
Switzerland ($0.45 million total cost) to support the communal forest and pasture
and protected areas management components during year 1-3 of the project. This
TA would be implemented by PMU; and (ii) the Government of Italy under a
FAO-Government Cooperation Project ($2.5 million total cost) to support project
management, policy reforms and institutional development, and provide expert
advice and training under all components except communal forest and protected
areas management.



Albania Fomstiy Prject                     Page -21 -                        Staff Appraisal Report
(2)    Improved State Forest Management ($8.1 million base cost) [For details see Annex B of
the Supporting Volume]. Project activities under this component are aimed at curbing
the ongoing degradation of Albanian State forests that will remain under the management
authority of DGFP and subsequently the Forest Corporation. These forests cover some
800,000 ha, or 70 percent of Albanian total forest cover, and include all high forests and
a significant share of coppice and shrubs. Project supported activities would include:
(a)    strengthening of forest management and conservation capacity of DGFP's field
offices to efficiently manage and protect State forests by providing 194 Sectors,
32 Districts, and 12 new "Technical Units" to be established at the Prefecture
level with improved offices and office, transportation and communications
equipment and funding of related incremental operating costs. It would also
include implementation of the action plan to reduce illegal forest harvesting
($3.3 million base cost);
(b)    resuming forest management planning by developing new, improved forest
management plans for 57 management units, or 160,000 ha of high forests, and
updating the simplified management plans for coppice and shrub forests. Both
types of forest management plans would be based on new guidelines that would
take account of non-wood economic aspects, including the forest's ecological and
social functions, and of a participatory approach ($1.3 million base cost);
(c)    reforestation  of sensitive  areas by  supporting  artificial complementary
regeneration (or reforestation by plantation or direct seeding) in areas of high
forests that: (i) have been harvested and where the natural regeneration has
partially or totally failed; and (ii) are located on highly erosive soils (i.e., clay
soils on steep slopes). DGFP would carry out a study of the high forest areas
with failed regeneration to identify those locations where reforestation is expected
to generate sufficient environmental benefits to make reforestation with
indigenous species economically viable. Reforestation activities would be agreed
with IDA during the review of the annual project work program and budget
(para. 4.5), and would be carried out on about 1,000 ha ($0.9 million base cost);
(d)    pre-commercial thinnings on about 29,000 ha of young stands of black pine,
beech, and oak, which is the total area of young stands of these species, 15 to
20 years of age, that need this silvicultural treatment ($2.1 million base cost);
and
(e)    forest protection by funding research and monitoring activities inter alia on the
processionary moth. This activity would be contracted to the Forest and Pasture
Research Institute ($0.5 million base cost).
(3)    Forest Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance ($2.4 million base cost) [For details see
Annex C of the Supporting Volume]. The project would support the rehabilitation of
about 350 km of existing forest roads in 53 selected forest management units in 16
districts which would be consistent with the units where new forest management plans
would be developed. The rehabilitation works would include levelling the bearing
course, rehabilitating the gravel bed, digging roadside ditches and reconstructing culverts
and other minor structures where necessary. Project resources would fund the design,
the implementation of rehabilitation works, and the maintenance of rehabilitated roads.



Albania Forestry Project                  Page -22 -                        Staff Appraisal Report
The rehabilitation and maintenance works would be contracted to new private civil works
enterprises.
(4)    Management of Communal Forest and Pasture Areas ($2.2 million base cost) [For details
see Annex D of the Supporting Volumel. The Project would support participative
management of forests and pastures in 30 communes, involving:
(a)    implementation of a pilot project in three selected communes in Central Albania,
with funding provided under a Project Preparation Facility;
(b)    development of improved management and investment plans for areas of State
forests and pastures that would be transferred to communes, using a participatory
approach;
(c)    funding of selected communal investment projects in restoration of degraded
areas and pasture improvement, planting of fodder and fuel wood trees, and
fencing for protection and rehabilitation of highly degraded coppice and shrub
forests; and
(d)    establishment of a data base on communally managed forests and pastures, and
preparation of studies on the production and marketing potential for non-timber
forest products.
(5)    Protected Areas Management ($0.4 million base cost) [For details see Annex E of the
Supporting Volume]. This component would be implemented as a pilot operation over
a three-year period and would involve:
(a)    strengthening of protected areas management services in five priority districts,
by funding transport and communications equipment, staff training, and the
preparation of management plans for biodiversity protection; and
(b)    preparation and implementation of a protected areas pilot project for the Lura
National Park.
C. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING [See also Appendix 6, and Annex L of the Supporting Volume]
3.13   Total Project Cost. The Forestry Project is expected to cost US$21.6 million (Lek 2.1 billion)
over six years, including a PPF-funded pre-project phase. The foreign exchange component is estimated
at US$9.4 million, or about 43 percent of total project costs. Taxes and duties amount to U$1.6 million
of total project costs (9 percent of base costs). The estimated project costs are summarized in Tables 3.1
and 3.2 below.



Albania Forestzy Project                          Page -23 -                               Staff Appraisal Report
Table 3.1: Sunmary of Projed Costs by Component
USS MILLION EQULVALENT         %       % ToTAL
FOREIGN     BASE
LocAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL   EXCHANGE   COSTS
A. Institutional Development                      0.7       4.4       5.1       86        28
B. Improved State Forest Management               5.2       2.9       8.1       36        44
C. Rehabilitation of Forest Roads                 1.5       0.9       2.4       36         13
D. Communal Forest and Pasture Management         2.1       0.1       2.3        6         12
E. Protected Areas Management                     0.2       0.2       0.4       50         2
Total Base Costs                          9.8       8.5      18.3       47       100
Physical Contingencies                            1.0       0.6       1.5       37          8
Price Contingencies                               1.5       0.3        1.8      17         10
Total Project Cods                       12.2       9.4      21.6       43
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
3. 14   Cost Estimates. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been applied to all investment and
recurrent costs, with the exception of FAO technical assistance financed by the Italian grant, to which
no physical or price contingencies were applied, in accordance with FAO procedures. The price
contingency calculation is based on 2.6 percent annual increase for foreign costs and local inflation of
10 percent in Project Year (PY) 1, 8 percent in PY2, and 7 percent in PY3, PY4, and PY5.
Table 3.2: Summary of Project Costs by Category of E:xpendiiure
US$ '000                 %       % TOTAL
FOREIGN     BASE
LoCAL    FoREiGN    TOTAL   EXCHANGE   COSTS
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil and Forest Works                       6.5         0.6        7.1         8         39
B. Vehicles                                     --          1.3        1.3       100          7
C. Equipment and Materials                       0.1        1.0        1.1        88          6
D. Training and Studies                          1.8        0.7        2.5        27         14
E. Technical Assistance                          0.2        3.0        3.2        94         17
Total Investment Costs                            8.7        6.6       15.2        43         84
II. Incremnental recurrent costs
A. Non-Permanent Staff salaries                  0.5       --          0.5        --          2
B. Other                                         0.6        1.9        2.6
Total Incremental Recurrent Costs                 1.1        1.9        3.0        63          16
Total Base Costs                                  9.8        8.5       18.3        47         100
Physical contingencies                            1.0        0.6        1.5        37          8
Price contingencies                               1.5        0.3        1.8        16         10
Total Project Costs                              12.2        9.4       21.6        43
Note: Figures uay not total exactly due to rounding.



Albania Forestry Project                      Page -24 -                          Staff Appraisal Report
3.15   Project Financing.
(a)    IDA.  Of the total project cost of US$21.6 million, the proposed IDA credit would finance
US$8.0 million (37 percent of total costs). IDA funds would be used to finance: (i) the PPF
expenditures for equipment, technical assistance, and training; (ii) most of the forest roads
component and the protected areas management component; (iii) part of the institutional
strengthening component, the state forest management component, and the communal forest and
pasture management component; and (iv) project recurrent costs (on a declining basis).
(b)    Government of Italy. The Government of Italy would finance a total of US$11.0 million (51
percent of total costs)-an untied soft loan of US$8.5 million would cofinance the institutional
strengthening component, the state forest management component, and the communal forest and
pastuire management component; and a grant of $2.5 million equivalent would finance technical
assistance by FAO under the institutional strengthening component.
(c)    Government of Switzerland.  The Government of Switzerland would provide a grant of
US$0.45 million equivalent for additional technical assistance under the institutional strengthening
component.
(d)    Governmentof Albania. The Government of Albania would contribute local counterpart financing
of about US$2.1 million equivalent (10 percent of total costs), which is sufficient to cover the
duties and taxes expected to be paid under the project and the agreed local share of recurrent cost
financing. The financing plan is shown, in Table 3.3 below.
Table 3.3: Sources of Project FYnancing
Project Component                                    US$ MILIION EQUIVALENT
GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT
OF ITALY    OF ITALY       OF      GOVERNMENT
IDA LOAN    GRANT    SWEGRANT    OF ALBANIA  TOTAL
A. Institutional Support         0.8         1.4         2.5         0.5          0.3      5.5
B. Improved State Forest Management   3.1    5.7        --           --           1.0      9.8
C. Rehabilitation of Forest Roads  2.6      --          --           --           0.3      3.0
D. Communal Forest & Pasture Mgmt.  1.1      1.5        --           --           0.3      2.9
E. Protected Areas Management    0.5        --          --           --           0.2      0.5
Total Project Costs (including    8.0        8.5         2.5         0.5          2.1     21.6
contingencies)
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
All TA has been budgeted under the "Institutional Support" component.
3.16   Credit Effectiveness. Cross-effectiveness conditions of the IDA credit would be the effectiveness
of the three cofinancing sources: (i) the Government of Italy loan; (ii) the Goverment of Italy grant
and the FAO administered TA project; and (iii) the Swiss Grant Agreement for the project.



Albania Forestry Project                     Page -25 -                          Staff Appraisal Report
D. FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY [See also Annex J of the Supporting Volume]
3.17   The forestry/pasture sector in the last years has been a drain on the Government's budget (para.
2.42). The policy reforms, institutional strengthening and initial investments supported under the project
are expected to turn the situation around and generate increased revenues from forestry and pasture
operations.  A conservative estimate, based on income from  timber and fuelwood revenues only,7
indicates that (i) the forestry sector's overall balance of total public income and expenditures could turn
positive by 1998; (ii) the Treasury contribution to funding of DGFP's operating expenditure in the
interim period would still be higher than the income Treasury will receive under the Revenue Account
mechanism; however, the negative balance would decline over the period; and (iii) sector financial
conditions could allow self-financing of a Forest Corporation from 1999 onwards. Treasury net income
from forestry (the Corporation's forest royalties and taxes less continued budgetary support for the new
Forest and Pasture Department), will sharply increase once the Corporation is operating on the basis of
its own revenues without further budgetary support, except for project investments. In the longer term,
assuming an annual allowable cut of 0.6 million m3 of industrial timber at an average price of $34 (i.e.,
85 percent of the 1994 average stumpage price in Central Europe, or 2.6 times the 1994 price in
Albania), potential annual gross proceeds on the order of $20 million could be expected over time from
timber sales alone. 30-50 percent of this would accrue to Treasury from the Corporation's payments of
royalties, dividends and profit taxes, making the forestry sector a major net contributor to the
Government's budget, even if taking into account future budget expenditures for non-commercial activities
of the FD and payments of interest/service charges and principal on the Italian soft loan and IDA credit
for the project.
E. PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
3.18   Procurement under the project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank guidelines
(Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995). To simplify project implementation,
items financed by the Italian Government loan would be procured using IDA guidelines. An indicative
Project Procurement Plan, indicating the main procurement packages financed under the project by all
financiers, is shown in Appendix 7. Specific procurement methods to be used for items financed by the
IDA credit are described below.
3.19   Civil Works: Forest Road Rehabilitation. Contracts for the rehabilitation and maintenance of
forest roads would be procured using special procedures acceptable to IDA. During negotiations of the
credit. it was agreed that forest road rehabilitation would be procured using lumpsum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three or more qualified domestic contractors
and using either (i) Bank-approved sample contract documentation for small works procurement (normally
used for contracts up to US$50,000) or (ii) the Bank's simplified bidding documents for small works,
which were prepared for Albania (available on diskette in Albanian and English). Out of a total cost of
US$2.2 million (including contingencies), IDA would finance an aggregate contract volume of
US$1.9 million, which would represent an estimated 35 contracts ranging from US$20,00 to US$100,000
per contract. Because of the small size of these contacts and the localized and highly scattered nature of
the works (53 forest management units in 16 districts), international firms are unlikely to be interested
7 Timber sales are projected to increase from 150,000 m3 at $13 per m3 in 1995 to 425,000 m3 at $30 per m3 in 1999, while
fuel wood production and prices are projected to remain at the 1995 levels; DGFP operating expenditure (without the project) is
projected to increasc from $2.95 million in 1995 to $4.3 million in 1998; and local investments (without the project) would increase
from $0.3 million in 1995 to $2.4 million in 1998 under the Revenue Account mechanism Ifor details see Annex J, Appendixl.



Albania Forestry Project                 Page -26 -                        Staff Appraisal Report
in these contracts. In the event that contract value exceeds $100,000, National Competitive Bidding
procedures would be applied using the Bank's model documents of September 1995.
3.20   Civil Works: Ofrice Buildings. Contracts for the construction and/or rehabilitation of district
and sector DGFP offices, PMU office, and PEMU office are estimated at the aggregate amount of
US$0.6 million. Out of this aggregate amount, IDA would finance an aggregate contract volume of
US$0.1 million equivalent (including contingencies), which would be procured using special procedures
acceptable to IDA.  During negotiations of the credit, it was agreed that civil works for office
construction or rehabilitation would be procured using lumpsum, fixed price contracts awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained from three or more qualified domestic contractors and using either (i) Bank-
approved sample contract documentation for small works procurement (normally used for contracts up
to US$50,000) or (ii) the Bank's simplified bidding documents for small works, which were prepared for
Albania (available on diskette in Albanian and English). When possible, the works would be grouped.
However, given the wide geographic disparity of the 10 district offices (including 5 for protected areas
management) and 90 sector offices to be constructed/rehabilitated, the contracts are not expected to
exceed US$40,000 each.
3.21   Forest Works, Forest Reforestation and Pre-Commercial Thinning. The reforestation of
degraded forests and the thinning of young forests, for an aggregate amount estimated at US$3.8 million,
of which an aggregate amount estimated at US$1.3 million would be financed by IDA, would be carried
out as follows:
(I)    Reforestation (aggregate amount estimated at US$0.4 million):
(a)    Reforestation is expected to be carried out in scattered areas where reforestation
can produce high environmental benefits. An estimated 10 contracts, which are
expected to range from US$20,000 to US$50,000 per contract, would be
procured using special procedures acceptable to IDA (aggregate amount US$0.3
million). It was agreed during negotiations that forest works would be procured
using lumpsum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained
from three or more qualified domestic contractors and using either (i) Bank-
approved sample contract documentation for small works procurement (normally
used for contracts up to US$50,000), or (ii) the Bank's simplified bidding
documents for small works, which were prepared for Albania (available on
diskette in Albanian and English).
(b)    Reforestation of beech by direct seeding, where natural regeneration has failed,
would be carried out by Force Account (aggregate amount estimated at
US$0. I million), because of specialized expertise available only within DGFP.
(2)    Pre-Commercial Thinning (aggregate amount estimated at US$0.8 million):
(a)    An estimated 22 contracts, expected to range between US$20,000 to US$50,000
each, would be awarded for pre-commercial thinnings on the basis of special
procedures acceptable to IDA, using the same procedures as described for
reforestation under (1)(a) above.
(3)    In the event that any of the contracts for reforestation and pre-commercial thinning
exceeds US$100,000 equivalent, NCB procedures would be applied using the Bank's
model bidding documents dated September 1995.



Albania Foratsy Project                  Page -27 -                        Staff Appraisal Report
3.22   Forest Works, Communal Forest and Pasture Management Activities. Communal silvo-
pastoral improvement activities, for an aggregate amount not expected to exceed US$2.4 million, of
which US$0.9 million would be financed by IDA, would be carried out by local communities using
community-participation procurement procedures acceptable to IDA. These procedures were used with
good results under the IDA-supported Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (Cr. 2461-AL). Under
these procedures, contracts will be signed with communes for forest and pasture management activities;
communes will directly hire villagers to undertake manual labor, and will use National Shopping
procedures acceptable to IDA to procure small goods or transport. Individual contracts to be carried out
by local communities are not expected to exceed US$40,000 each.
3.23   Vehicles.  Contracts for 4-wheel drive vehicles, cars, and a bus, for an aggregate amount
estimated at US$1.2 million, of which US$0.3 million would be financed by IDA, would be awarded
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with World Bank Guidelines.8
Domestic bidders would be granted a margin of preference as per IDA guidelines. Contracts for
motorcycles, for an aggregate amount estimated at 0.3 million, of which US$0.06 million would be
financed by IDA, would be awarded on the basis of International Shopping (IS), by soliciting at least
three quotations from suppliers in at least two eligible countries. The main procurement packages for
vehicles financed under the project are provided in Appendix 7.
3.24   Equipment, and Furniture.  Contracts for computer equipment, for an aggregate amount
estimated at US$0.4 million, of which IDA would finance an estimated US$0.1 million, would be
awarded on the basis of ICB. Domestic bidders would be granted a margin of preference as per IDA
guidelines. Contracts for office equipment, radio equipment, field equipment, and furniture, for an
aggregate amount estimated at US$0.7 million, of which IDA would finance US$0.3 million, would be
awarded on the basis of IS. Individual contracts awarded under IS are not expected to exceed
US$200,000. Small contracts below US$50,000 each for computers, equipment, materials, and horses,
for an aggregate amount estimated at US$0.1 million, of which IDA would finance an estimated US$0.04
million, would be awarded on the basis of NS. The main procurement packages for equipment financed
under the project are provided in Appendix 7.
' Vehicles funanced under the Project Prparation Facility were procured by increasing the number of units procured by ICB
for the IDA-frnced Tax Administration Project.



Albania Forestry Project                           Page -28 -                               Staff Appraisal Report
Table 3.4: Sununary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000 Equivalent)a'
Items to be Procured                                             Procurement Method
ICB         NCB         Other        NBF          Total
1. Civil Works
---         ---       2,151           ---       2,151
Road Rehabilitation                                             (1,936)a/                 (1,936)
---         ---         604           ---         604
Other Civil Works                                                 (52)b/                     (52)
2. Forest Works
---   ---  1,216         ---        1,216
Reforestation                                                    (438)c/                   (438)
---         ---       2,581           ---       2,581
Thinning                                                          (813)d/                   (813)
---         ---       2,396           ---       2,396
Communal Forestry                                                (863)e/                   (863)
3. Goods
1,205          ---         296           ---       1,501
Vehicles                                (343)f/                    (59)g/                   (402)
429                      823           ---        1,252
Other Equipment                        (106)h/                  (333)i/                    (439)
4. Services
---         ---         322        2,961        3,284
Technical Assistance (consulting services)                       (1 38)j/                   (138)
---         ---       1,302           ---       1,302
Research, Studies, Training                                       (440)k/                  (440)
1,714          ---       1,714
Management Plans                                                  (572)1/                  (572)
---         ---       3,606           ---       3,606
5. Incremental Operating Costs                                       (1,937)                   (1,937)
1,635          ---      17,010        2,961       21,606
Total                                        (449)          ---      (7,581)                   (8,030)
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/   Figures may not total exactly due to rounding. Amounts in parentheses are the amounts to be rmnanced by IDA.
b/   Special Procedure packages estimated between US$20,000 and US$100,000 per contract (procured using lumpsum,
fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three or more qualified domestic
contractors).
c/   Special Procedure packages estimated at less than US$50,000 per contract.
d/   Special Procedure packages estimated less than US$50,000 per contract.
e/   Community Participation packages estimated at less than US$40,000 per contract.
f/   International Competitive Bidding packages estimatcd between US$200,000 and US$400,000 per contract.
g/   International Shopping packages estimated between US$50,000 and US$200,000.
h/   International Competitive Bidding packages estimated between US$200,000 and US$400,000 per contract.
i/   International Shopping packages (aggregate US$289,000), estimated at between USS50,000 and USS200,000 per
contract; National Shopping Packages (aggregate amount US$44,000) estimated at less than US$50,000 per
contract.
j/   Consulting services estimated at less than US$100,000 per contract
k/   Research, studies, and training estimated at less than US$100,000 per contract.
U    Forest management plans estimated at less than US$50,000 per contract.



Albania Fomsrty Project                 Page -29 -                       Staff Appraisal Repoit
3.25   Technical Assistance; Training, Research and Studies; Management Plans.  Technical
assistance, training, research and studies, and management plans to be financed under the project are
estimated at US$6.3 million.
(a)    Technical assistance (TA) is estimated to cost a total of US$3.3 million. [For details see
Annex G of the Supporting Volume]. The Government of Italy would finance the
majority of TA with a US$2.5 million grant to be administered by FAO. The
Government of Switzerland would provide a grant of US$450,000 for TA. The
remaining TA (US$0.3 million), of which IDA would finance an aggregate amount
estimated at US$0.1 million, would be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants. IDA-financed TA comprises about 6 mm of foreign experts
(I mm under the PPF; 5 mm for mid-term review), and local consultants for management
plan preparation under the Communal Forestry component and public awareness and
tourism promotion under the Protected Areas Management component.
(b)    The project also finances training, research, and studies for an aggregate amount of
US$1.3 million, of which IDA would finance an aggregate amount estimated at US$0.4
million, which would be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines for the Use of
Consultants. [See Annex F of the Supporting Volume for details on training, research,
and studies financed under the project].
(c)    Forest management plans are estimated at an aggregate amount of US$1.7 million, of
which IDA would finance an estimated US$0.6 million, which would be procured in
accordance with IDA guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Contracts for management
plans, which would be undertaken for the 57 forest economies and Lura Park, are not
expected to exceed US$50,000 each. Management plans are described in detail in Annex
B of the Supporting Volume, and the schedule for procuring management plans is shown
in Appendix B. I of this Supporting Volume to the SAR.
3.26   Incremental Operating Costs. Total project incremental operating costs are estimated at
US$3.6 million, of which IDA would finance US$1.9 million. Incremental operating costs consist of
PMU, PEMU, and communal forestry component non-permanent staff salaries, and vehicle and
equipment operation and maintenance costs.
3.27   Procurement Implementation.  Procurement under the project would be undertaken or
coordinated/monitored by the PMU (para. 4.1 (b)).
3.28   Contract Review. In order to ensure compliance with IDA's procurement guidelines, the
procurement documentation to be submitted for prior review by IDA would include:
(a)    Civil Works for Forest Road Rehabilitation:
-     list of civil works contracts to be agreed with IDA
-     first three civil works contracts and all civil works contracts over US$100,000
equivalent: all documentation subject to prior review
(b)    Civil Works for Office Rehabilitation or Construction:
list of civil works contracts to be agreed with IDA



Albania Foresty Projoct                    Page -30 -                        Staff Appmisal Report
first three civil works contracts and all civil works contracts over US$100,000
equivalent: all documentation subject to prior review
(c)    Forest Works for Reforestation or Thinning:
-      list of forest works contracts to be agreed with IDA
-      first three forest works contracts for reforestation or thinning and all such
contracts over US$100,000: all documentation subject to prior review
(d)    Communal Forest Works
first communal forest works contract using Community Participation procurement
procedures and all communal forest works contracts over US$100,000: all
documentation subject to prior review
(e)    Vehicles and Equipment:
-      ICB contracts: all procurement documentation subject to prior review
(f)    Consulting Services (if subject to IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants):
-      contracts above US$50,000: all documentation (terms of reference, short list of
firms or individuals, letters of invitation, selection criteria, evaluation reports,
draft contracts);
-      contracts below US$50,000: terms of reference;
-      amendments to consultant contracts raising the contract amount above
US$50,000.
(g)    Training:
foreign training: all documentation (ustification, proposed participants, selection
criteria for institutions to provide training, cost estimate).
All contracts not subject to prior review would be subject to selective post-award reviews by IDA.
3.29   Procurement Information to be Provided by the Borrower. A detailed Procurement Plan
would be prepared annually and submitted by the PMU with the annual work plan and budget. The PMU
would promptly inform IDA of contract awards, procurement in process and procurement issues and
would include the procurement information in its quarterly progress reports concerning:
(a)    vehicles and equipment, technical assistance, and training: status and timing of all
pending actions; and
(b)    the status of aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.



Albania Foretry Project                    Page -31 -                        Staff Appraisal Report
F. IDA CREDIT ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
3.30   The proposed IDA credit of US$8 million would be disbursed over five fiscal years plus a PPF
funded pre-project phase of about one year. The closing date for the credit would be December 31,
2002. Estimated IDA disbursements are shown in Table 3.5 below.
Table 3.5: Estimated IDA Disbursements
USS Million Equivalent
FY 1997    FY 1998    FY 1999    FY 2000    FY 2001       FY 2002
Annual                     1.2        1.2         1.6        1.6         2.0         0.4
Cumulative                 1.2        2.4         4.0        5.6         7.6         8.0
3.31   IDA disbursement categories are shown in Table 3.6 below. IDA disbursements would be based
on full documentation of expenditures for the following: (a) individual contracts for equipment and
materials above US$100,000 equivalent; (b) individual contracts for civil and forest works above
US$100,000 equivalent; (c) individual service contracts (technical assistance, studies, research) above
US$50,000 equivalent. Disbursements for recurrent costs, equipment and materials consisting of
iindividual contracts below US$100,000, civil and forest works consisting of individual contracts below
US$100,000, consulting services contracts less than US$50,000, and training would be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure certified by the Project Director (PMU). The required supporting documents
would be retained by the PMU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the
year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available for review
by the auditors and by visiting IDA staff upon request.



Albania Foresy Project                          Page -32 -                             Staff Appraisal Report
Table 3.6: Disbursement Categokes
AMouNT USS' MILUON EQUIVALENT
ITEMS                                        (SDR MIUJON)                       % FINANCING
1. Civil Works                                   1.80                               90%
(1.24)
2. Forest Works
2a. State forest works                          1.20                              90%
(0.82)
2b. Communal forest works                       0.65                              90%
(0.45)
3. Goods                                         0.25                     t00% of foreign expenditures
(0.17)               100% of local expenditures (ex-factozy
cost) and 85% of local expcnditures for
other items procured locally
4. TA, Tmaining, Research
4a. Other than for State Forest                0.55                               100%
Management Plans                          (0.38)
4b. for State Forest Management                0.40                               100%
Plans                                      (0.28)
5. Incremental Operating Costs                   1.55                 100% up to first US$500,000 equivalent
(1.07)                 70% up to the next US$1,000,000
equivalent
40% thereafter
6. Project Preparation Advance                   0.60                               100%
(0.41)
7. Unallocated                                    1.00
(0.68)
Total                                         8.00
(5.50)
3.32   Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government of Albania would
establish, maintain, and operate, under conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account denominated in
US dollars in the Bank of Albania. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation of the
Special Account would be limited to US$250,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under
the Credit have reached the level of SDR 680,000 (US$1.0 million), the initial allocation may be
increased up to the authorized allocation of US$500,000 by submitting the relevant Application for
Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must
include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.



Albania Forestry Project                    Page -33 -                          Staff Appraisal Report
G. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT [See also Annex K of the Supporting Volume]
3.33   The project as a forestry operation has been assigned to the environmental "A" category, in line
with the Bank's Forestry Policy. Based on the findings and recommendations of the Ecological Survey,9
the originally proposed construction of new forest access roads to open up new areas for timber
harvesting was eliminated from the project, and harvesting operations were limited to areas with existing
access that do not classify as present or future protected areas.
3.34   A full Environmental Assessment (EA) was carried out by the Government with assistance from
a FAO/CP team of local and international consultants, in parallel with project appraisal and post-appraisal
by IDA and the cofinancing agencies. Public hearings were held in October 1995. On January 17, 1996
the Government approved in principle the Ecological Survey and the EA report.'" During negotiations
of the credit, agreement was reached on the details of the mitigation and monitoring plan proposed in the
EA report that would be implemented under the project (See Appendix 8). Annex K of the Supporting
Volume contains the following excerpts from the original EA report: the summary, the table of issues
and impacts of the project, and the full mitigation and monitoring matrix.
3.35   All major additional findings and recommendations of the Ecological Survey and the EA have
been incorporated in the project design and funding: (i) the addition of a protected areas management
component, including the development of a management plan for one existing national park (para.
3.12 (5)); (ii) the establishment and operation of a Project Environmental Management Unit (PEMU),
separate from project implementing agencies and the project management unit, but with its head being
a member of the Project Steering Committee; PEMU would inter alia would be responsible for managing
the implementation of the mitigating measures (para. 3.6); (iii) the expansion of skill development in
environmental matters through training, provision of expert advice and twinning with a suitable
counterpart agency abroad for all agencies in Albania concerned with forest ecosystems (CEP, PEMU,
academic and research institutes) (paras. 3.6 and 4.1 (c)); and (iv) the use of the Forest and Sector
Strategy Review to involve local specialists and public participation and improve the environment for
multiple-use and sustainable forestry (para. 4.9).
3.36   The remaining main mitigating measures and monitoring actions to ensure environmentally sound
project implementation include (for minor measures and further details see Appendix 8):
(a)    The implementation of DGFP's Action Plan to Reduce Illegal Forest Harvesting would
be monitored by an independent third party, such as PEMU. Furthermnore, forest
products trade would not liberalized prior to the Bank's acceptance of successful results
of the Plan and the updating of the AAC (see also paras. 3.9, 3.11, 4.9 and 4.12);
(b)    PEMU's capacity would be developed to assume a lead role in etivironmental
management of the project. PEMU's responsibilities would include: preparation of
guidelines for environmental impact assessments (EIA) in forestry; provision of support
to DGFP for the preparation of best management practices for road rehabilitation;
preparation for approval by CEP of EIA for individual forest management plans
Ecological Survey of Selected High Forests of Albania. Dalip Habili, Forest and Pasture Research Institute; Ferdinand Bego
et al., Institute of Biological Research; Petrit Hoda, Faculty of Natural Sciences of Tirana University; and Phillip Brylski, World
Bank consultant. March 1995.
O Albania Forestry Project - Environmental Assessment Report. FAO, Investment Center, FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Programme. February 1996.



Albania Forevtiy Project                    Page -34 -                         Staff Apprial Report
(including road rehabilitation and harvesting plans); identification of suitable candidates
to receive training in forest management planning, ElAs and other environmental topics;
inspection of road rehabilitation activities; collaboration with DGFP in the selection of
areas for harvesting during the first two years of the project where current management
plans are adequate; contribution to the revisions of the draft Law on Nature and
Biological Diversity and other law revisions affecting forestry; participation in the
preparation of the Biodiversity Strategy and the Forest and Pasture Sector Strategy
Review; and coordination of consultations with stakeholders for all components of the
project;
(c)    Forest management plans in accessible areas would be updated under the project and
would be based on new guidelines and include results of floral and faunal inventories and
recommendations for their protection; and
(d)    Road rehabilitation activities would be limited to areas with existing, acceptable
management plans and areas with new-style forest management plans. Furthermore, road
rehabilitation would be undertaken only after illegal harvesting is under control in those
areas, the application of new best practices for road rehabilitation works, and the
completion of EIA.



ALBANIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
CHAPrER IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. RESPONSIBiLmES AND MANAGEMENT (see also Annex G of the Supporting Volume)
4.1    The Ministry ofAgriculture and Food (MAF) would be responsible for the overall implementation
and coordination of the project, including its institutional and policy reforms. To ensure focus, efficiency
and accountability in a situation with major institutional reforms evolving under the project, temporary
management mechanisms would be established which include a high-level Project Steering Committee and
a Project Management Unit (PMU) reporting to that Steering Committee. New permanent structures for
management of certain aspects of the forestry/pasture sector include a Project Environmental Management
Unit (PEMU) and a new forest and pasture department as line agency in the Ministry once DGFP has
been transformed into a Forest Corporation. These new structures are also expected to adjust their scope
and responsibilities over time. DGFP shall remain the major project implementing agency within the
MAF until the Corporation is established. Specific responsibilities of the various agencies would be as
follows:
(a)    The Project Steering Committee would be constituted by the Minister of Agriculture (or
his representative) as Chairperson, the Director of the Agricultural Program Office, the
Project Director, the head of PEMU, and the Director General of DGFP (to be replaced
later by both the Forest Corporation's Chief Executive and the Director of the new Forest
and Pasture Department). In addition, the Steering Committee will draw on the expertise
and recommendations from stakeholders in the forestry and pasture sector by including
as non-voting members representatives from the Ministry of Health and Environment,
Ministry of Construction and Tourism, local governments. private sector and non-
governmental organizations. The Steering Committee will be responsible for: the
approval of the annual project work program and budget prepared by PMU; quarterly
reviews of implementation and approval of budget adjustments proposed by PMU; overall
monitoring of project execution; and assistance in resolving evolving problems. The
Steering Committee would also decide about the allocation of local investment resources
provided under the Revenue Account mechanism, but outside the project.
(b)    The Project Management Unit (PMU) would consist of a Project Director (PD), four
technical specialists (institutional and legal, forester, economist, and procurement), an
accountant, secretary/translator and support staff who would all have long-term consultant
contracts. PMU would also be supported by a resident internationally recruited Advisor,
and technical specialists provided periodically under the technical assistance programs.
The PD would report directly to the Project Steering Committee." It was aereed during
negotiations of the credit that the terms of reference and the qualification and experience
of the PD would be acceptable to IDA. PMU will be responsible for: (i) preparing,
jointly with the project implementing agencies, project annual work programs and
budgets (para. 4.5 below) for approval by the Project Steering Committee, as well as of
I During the PPF-supported pre-project phase, the head of the PMU reported to the DG of DGFP.



Albania Forestry Project                  Page -36 -                        Staff Appraisal Report
quarterly updates; (ii) managing, coordinating and monitoring the implementation of all
approved project work programs by the implementing agencies under contracts or
agreements between PMU and the implementing agencies; (iii) managing and
coordinating the technical assistance input and training; (iv) implementing or coordinating
procurement; (v) securing the timely provision of local and external project funding; (vi)
making payments to project implementing agencies in accordance with the contractual
arrangements;  (vii) keeping accounting records and ensuring audits of all project
expenditure; and (viii) reporting on project progress.
(c)    The Project Environmental Management Unit (PEMU) would be a new permanent unit
to be established as part of MAF's Agricultural Program Office (APO) in order to
maintain authority and avoid conflict of interest with project implementing agencies on
sensitive environmental matters. While PEMU would initially, within the framework of
the project, focus on the conservation of nature in the forest as its primary responsibility,
over time, it would expand the scope of its functions towards other environmentally
sensitive aspects of the activities and programs of the Ministry of Agriculture in line with
the Government's policy to establish an environmental management capability in each
sectoral ministry. Major tasks of PEMU would be to undertake directly, or commit
experts for environmental impact assessments, monitor progress in reducing illegal
harvesting, provide assistance for and check the implementation of environmental
mitigation and monitoring plan, establish and operate a data base for the sector, and
contribute to the development of a long-term forest and pasture strategy. PEMU would
be staffed with an Albanian expert (economy, biology or engineering) and support staff.
It would be supported by specialized international expertise provided under the TA
component including backstopping by an external scientific or forest management
institution to provide training and expert visits. Training would include not only PEMU
staff but other Albanian experts in CEP and DGFP. PEMU would mainly operate
through contractual arrangements that it would conclude with Albanian scientific,
academic and research institutions for the provision of specific experts, with payment
under the project. It was agreed during negotiations of the credit that the terms of
reference and the qualification and experience of the head of PEMU would be acceptable
to IDA.
(d)    The Directorate General of Forests and Pastures (DGFP) would be the main project
implementing agency within MAF that would both carry through and be affected by
institutional reforms of the forest administration, and that would be responsible for
carrying out the project's State forest management, forest roads rehabilitation, communal
forest and pasture management, and protected areas management components, under
contractual arrangements with PMU. DGFP would implement most of the activities
through its own functional and regional dependencies, but could also, in agreement with
PMU, contract specific services directly with specialized agencies, such as the
Agriculture University or the Forest and Pasture Research Institute, or private sector
enterprises, which it would supervise.



Albania Foratzy Project                  Page -37 -                        Staff Appraiaal Repoit
In addition to the APFDP supported Forest Policy Advisory Group, DGFP would
establish in its Pastures Section a new communal forest and pasture management
capability to implement the project's respective component. 12
DGFP would also prepare and implement, after approval by the Project Steering
Committee, the investment programs to be funded by the local resources generated under
the 'Revenue Account' mechanism, which would be complementary to project resources.
(e)    The Forest Corporation (FC), and a new Forest and Pasture Department in MAF would
evolve from the current DGFP, likely after the mid-term review of the project when most
of the distortions of prices and costs in the sector have been eliminated allowing
financially viable forest management, and when detailed institutional and business plans
have been developed for the DGFP successor organizations. It is also anticipated that FC
and the new forest line agency in MAF would assume the role and responsibilities for
project implementation that previously rested with DGFP. It is expected that DGFP's
activities in policy development and monitoring, regulatory control, communal forest and
pasture management, and protected areas management will be transferred to the new
Forest and Pasture Department, while the remaining commercially viable DGFP
functions, both with and without the project, will remain in the future FC.
4.2    Other project-relevant Government institutions in the forestry and pasture sector include:
(a)    Forest Technician School at Shkoder: Project support to strengthen the Technician
School through the acquisition of selected equipment and training of trainers would be
based upon the detailed preparation of proposals and cost estimate by the School for
vetting by the PMU and approval of funding by the Project Steering Committee. In
addition, following the completion of the human resources study, PMU would establish
contracts with the School for funding specific training courses.
(b)    Forest and Pasture Research Institute: Selected facilities and equipment of FPRI would
be upgraded and funds provided for foreign training of its staff. Decisions would be
made on the basis of detailed proposals and cost estimates prepared by the Institute for
vetting by the PMU, and approval of funding by the Project Steering Committee. Also,
the Institute's services could be contracted for the development of forest management
plans, the implementation of project related research work and project monitoring and
evaluation (para. 4.11). It was agreed during negotiation of the credit that the adoption
of regulations for new-style forest management planning methodology, acceptable to
IDA, would be a condition of disbursement for the preparation of forest management
plans in State forests.
4.3    Communes:  Communes are considered implementing agencies under the project.  The
participation of communes in the project-supported communal forest and pasture management program
would be based upon pre-selection by DGFP's communal forest and pasture unit, and the receipt of a
letter of intent from the communes together with the assessment of their socio-economic situation,
management capacity, and livestock, forestry and pasture situation. Selected communes would set up
their communal silvo-pastoral commission that would be the main interlocutor with the DGFP to plan and
12 During the PPF-supported pre-project phase preparation of the component and the imnplementation of the communal foreat
and paatum pilot project was done by PMU.



Albania Foreasy Project                 Page -38 -                      Staff Appmisl Report
implement the component.  These commissions would be responsible for carrying through the
participatory approach within their communes, employing contractors for the preparation and
implementation of management and investment plans for their forest and pasture areas, and managing the
communal reinvestment funds that would receive parts of the revenues generated under the program. The
commune's preparations and proposals would be reviewed by DGFP professionals in relation to their
technical and managerial feasibility, and economic and environmental soundness. Communal silvo-
pastoral projects, that are approved by DGFP would be included in the pipeline of projects proposed for
approval by the Project Steering Committee within the Annual Work Plans and Budgets. Upon transfer
to the communes of the usufruct rights for the State-owned forest and pasture land concerned, and
approval by the Steering Committee, DGFP through its district offices would enter into a three-year
contractual arrangement with the commune that would specify the scope, timing and cost of the
investment project and the procedures to be observed by both parties. DGFP would provide extension
services through commune-based forest/pasture technicians who would be reassigned within DGFP.
DGFP would also supervise contract implementation by a team of project paid silvo-pastoral inspectors.
The approval of the regulation, acceptable to IDA, for the transfer of State forest and pasture land to
communes will be a condition of disbursement for forest works under the communal forest and pasture
management component, excluding works financed under the pilot project with PPF funding.
Furthermore, it was aereed during negotiations of the credit, that PMU will not disburse for communal
investments unless the transfer of land to the commune had been effective and the "Agreement-Contract"
between DGFP and the participating commune had been signed in each case.
B. FINANCING MECHANISM
4.4   Funding Sources. The sources for project funding are: (i) the Ministry of Finance as (1)
borrower of the IDA credit and Italian soft loan, (2) recipient of the TA grant from the Government of
Switzerland, and (3) provider of the Government's own contribution; and (ii) FAO through its
Government Cooperation Project for the in-kind provision of technical assistance that is being funded
from the TA grant of the Government of Italy. All project funding channelled through the Ministry of
Finance will be fully budgeted and included in the Annual Public Investment Budget. The Project
Steering Committee will be the major tool for allocating project expenditure, and the Project Management
Unit (PMU) will be in charge for planning, executing, and accounting for, the approved budgets.
4.5    Annual Project Work Program and Budget. Project execution would be based on annual detailed
work programs and budgets that would be prepared by PMU based on guidelines from the Project
Steering Committee, reviewed by IDA and the cofinancing agencies, and approved by the Steering
Committee and the Treasury/Council of Ministers. Agreement was reached during negotiations of the
credit that (i) the draft work program and budget would be submitted to IDA no later than October 15
of each year; (ii) that only expenditures included in the approved work plan and budget, acceptable to
IDA, would be eligible for funding from project resources; and (iii) the quarterly updates and revisions
of the project work plan and budget would be acceptable to IDA.
4.6    Contracting.  Project cash and in-kind expenditure would be based on annual, renewable
agreements or contracts between PMU and the project implementing agencies, or on direct supply
contract by PMU with providers of goods and services. PMU's own budgetary expenditure would be
approved and monitored by the Project Steering Committee. Implementing agencies including the
communes can, within the limitations and conditions set by their global contract with PMU, enter into
sub-contracts with their specific providers of goods and services or with the beneficiaries of their project
activities. Project funding will allow both full financing of expenditures as well as cost-sharing with
public and private institutions having access to other funding sources. Recurrent operating costs of



A1bania Porety Project                   Page -39 -                       Staff Appraisll Report
DGFP/Forest Corporation will be funded on a declining basis to enhance sustainability by early
incorporation of such funding into their locally funded budgets. Non-contract project expenditure made
by the implementing agencies, including by PMU, would be reimbursed by PMU on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure that would be consistent with the annual budget and quarterly updates and
signed off by the Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer of the implementing agency. Funding of
investments in communal forest and pasture improvement would be limited to a three-year period per
commune, and funding of the protected areas development component would be limited to the first three
years of the project.
4.7    The 'Revenue Account' mechanism would, during the interim period and until the establishment
of FC, operate in parallel to the project and would complement the resources and investments provided
under the project. This mechanism would replace the customary investment budget of DGFP from 1997
onwards, when the accumulated Revenue Account resources would become available for investment. The
allocation of the Revenue Account resources would be the responsibility of the Project Steering
Committee, and DGFP would be in charge to implement the approved investment program. This
mechanism would be a pre-cursor to the envisaged self-financing mechanism of the future FC, and help
improve DGFP's budgeting and accounting processes as well as the motivation and incentives for DGFP
staff who will now see the link between their revenues from forest sales and the amount of investment
DGFP can undertake the following year. In view of the need to closely coordinate the DGFP investment
programs funded under the project and under the Revenue Account, it was agreed during negotiations of
the credit that IDA and the Government would annually, before budget finalization, exchange views on
the investment program funded under the local "Revenue Account."
C. TECHICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
4.8    Technical Assistance [See also Annex G of the Supporting Volume]. Technical Assistance would
be provided under the project for a wide range of specific expertise by internationally recruited
consultants for technical, managerial, financial and research activities. It would also include twinning
and back-stopping by an external specialized institution (for environmental management). TA would be
funded from an Italian Government Grant and administered by FAO under a FAO-Government
Cooperation Project, and from a Swiss Government Grant and administered by PMU. Local coordination
of TA would be the responsibility of PMU which would include the provision of all TA in the annual
work programs and budgets, and also in the agreements and contracts PMU will conclude with the project
implementing agencies, where a secondment of TA is appropriate. Under the project, all TA resources
have initially been budgeted as provision of external expertise. Albanian experts would be eligible for
recruitment as local consultants where their qualification and experience is competitive with international
candidates. In such cases, the terms of employment of Albanian consultants would be guided by the
specific requirements of the funding agencies. Furthermore, TA resources can, after review and
agreement between the Project Steering Committee and the external financing and cofinancing agencies,
be converted into external training of Albanian staff in case savings occur by agreed reductions of the
external consultant input, or by replacing expatriate consultants with competent and experienced Albanian
personnel.  It was agreed durine negotiations of the credit that the terms of reference and the
qualifications and experience of the following TA assignments would be acceptable to IDA: (i) the full-
time advisor to the Project Director (para. 4.1 (b)); (ii) the scientific or forest management institution
that would provide back-stopping to PEMU (para. 4.1 (c)); and (iii) the forestry policy specialist who
would coordinate the preparation of the forest and pasture sector strategy (para. 4.9 below).
4.9   Sector Strategy Reiew [For terms of reference see Annex G, Appendix 4 of the Supporting
Volume]. TA resources would also be used to prepare, during year one and two of the project,



Albania Fomstry Project                   Page -40 -                        Staff Appraisl Repoit
alternative options for the long-term development of Albania's forest and pasture sector. The review
would be aimed at identifying constraints to sustainable and environmentally sound management of the
sector and proposing an action program for overcoming the identified constraints. This program should
include legal, institutional, macro-policy, financial, economic, environmental and technical measures as
relevant for the sector, both at the production and the processing level. Particular attention during the
review should be given to: (i) the legal and institutional base for effective environmental management;
(ii) the updating of the annual allowable cut (AAC); (iii) commercial operations, including the structure
and operations of the proposed Forest Corporation, potential forest concessions and opening up of new
harvesting areas; (iv) the institutional and funding arrangements for protected areas and national parks;
(v) communal and private sector forest and pasture management, including land ownership issues; and
(vi) economic viability and funding of afforestation, reforestation, soil conservation and other programs
of improved management of renewable natural resources. The Review would prepare specific proposals
to update and refine the existing Forestry Law, to finalize the National Biodiversity Strategy and to revise
the draft Law on the Protection of Nature and Biological Diversity. The review process would involve
high-level Albanian policy makers and would seek to create a national consensus on the long-term vision
for the sector using a conference or workshop/seminar format. These activities would be carried out
prior to the project's Mid-term Review (para. 4.12) so as to provide an input for possible adjustments
of the project design and legal framework for the project's second half, generate actions to improve the
conditions of the sector, and identify desirable new project interventions.  It was agreed during
negotiations of the credit that (i) the Sector Strategy Review documents would be prepared by June 30,
1997; (ii) public workshops/seminars would be held, and a study and recommendations would be prepared
by June 30, 1998; (iii) proposals for amending the Forestry Law and the draft law on the protection of
nature and biological diversity would be reviewed with IDA no later than April 30, 1999; and (iv) the
agreed proposal and draft law would be submitted to Parliament no later than June 30, 1999;
4.10   Training [See also Annex F of the Supporting Volume]. Training activities under the project
include: (i) local in-service training for DGFP staff at all levels to be provided mainly through one week-
courses at the Forest Faculty of the Agricultural University of Tirana; (ii) local training for a total of
18 Forest Technician School staff by a foreign "trainer of trainers" in three four-week courses; (iii)
foreign training and study tours for DGFP staff in a variety of subjects to improve specialist skills for
which training opportunities do not exist in Albania: timber marketing and pricing, new-style forest
management plans, and to expand international experience; (iv) short-term training and study tours for
staff of the FPRI to learn how forest research issues (such as sustainable forest management, conservation
of genetic resources, forest protection measures, forest harvesting and pasture management in mountain
areas) are being addressed in different countries and how approaches elsewhere may have applicability
to the Albanian situation; (v) long-term foreign training for one FPRI staff to study management and
monitoring of forest ecosystems; and (vi) on-the-job training by visiting foreign TA experts who each will
be assigned at least one local counterpart.
D. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
4.11   The Forest and Pasture Research Institute which is independent from project management and
DGFP, or another suitable agency, would be contracted by PMU to develop and implement a monitoring
and evaluation system for project activities. In order to be able to perform this task, FPRI or another
agency selected, would receive TA to set up the system and train assigned staff, and its staff would attend
an external training course on the subject of project monitoring and evaluation. A computerized system,
such as "Microsoft Project," would be used to plan and monitor project activities. The use of the system
and data would be shared with PMU that would use it as a management tool. Key performance indicators



Albania Forvstry Poject                   Page -41 -                        Staff Appniusa Report
to measure the achievement of overall project objectives, the effectiveness of project management ar.d
institutional and policy reforms, and the realization of project physical targets is in Appendix 4.
4.12   It was agreed during negotiations of the credit that, before December 31, 1998, a Mid-Term
Project Progress Review would be carried out between the Government, IDA and the cofinancing
agencies. This Mid-Term Review will take account of the results of the prior Sector Strategy Review
(para. 4.9 above), assess project implementation progress to date, and agree on adjustments, if necessary,
of the project's scope, focus and implementation schedule. The Review would cover the following
particular areas:
(a)    Implementation progress and impact achieved through (i) policy adjustments (reduction
of illegal logging, liberalization of forest products trade, improved domestic marketing
and pricing), (ii) reforming and developing institutions of Albania's forest administration,
(iii) developing and introducing new-style forest management planning procedures,
(iv) planning of reforestation investments, taking account of their economic viability,
(v) initial projects in communal forest and pasture management, (vi) compliance with the
environmental mitigation and monitoring plan, and (vii) operation of the Revenue
Account mechanism; and
(b)    Development of strategies and detailed operational plans for the second half of the project
implementation period, including (i) building on consensus achieved on the resolution
of strategic issues in the Albanian forest and pasture sector, (ii) assessment of the
readiness of the Albanian forest institutions to move toward the creation of an
autonomous entity for commercial operations, (iii) detailed designs and operational plans
for the future Forest Corporation, (iv) draft documentation on a new law for the
protection of nature and biological diversity and on proposed amendments to the existing
forestry law; (v) involvement of stakeholders in the management of the sector, and
(vi) identification/preparation of a follow-on operation for biodiversity protection.
E. AUDITING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
4.13   Separate auditable project accounts would be established in PMU for each of the three external
financing agencies and the local Government contribution in order to keep project expenditures
identifiable by funding source. The project accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. Separate audit statements would be prepared for the Special Accounts and for
Statements of Expenditure. The Project Director, PMU, will prepare and furnish to IDA and the
cofinancing agencies, by December I of each year during the disbursement period, a forward looking
technical and financial project annual progress report in a format acceptable to IDA, and review with IDA
and the cofinancing agencies the conclusions and recommendations of this report, including the
forthcoming annual work program and budget of PMU and any measures that need to be taken during
the following year to ensure proper execution of the project. The submission to IDA and the cofinancing
agencies would also include the budget proposal for the Revenue Account investments by DGFP (or the
budget proposal of the future Forest Corporation) for the following year to facilitate the exchange of
views with IDA and the project cofinancing agencies on this parallel investment program (para. 4.7).
Assurances on these auditing and reporting requirements have been obtained during negotiations of the
credit.
4.14   A quarterly report on project progress and statements of project expenditures would be prepared
by the Project Director, PMU, and submitted to the Project Steering Committee members, the agency



Albania Forety Project                   Page -42 -                       Staff Apprail Report
selected for monitoring and evaluation, and IDA and cofinancing agencies. Based on these quarterly
reports, the forward looking work plan and budget prepared by the Project Director, PMU, (para. 4.13
above), and its own findings and assessments, FPRI or another agency selected for monitoring and
evaluation would compile an annual report that would be submitted to the Government, and the
Government would submit the report to IDA and the cofinancing agencies by March 31 of each project
year. The agency in charge of monitoring and evaluation would also be responsible for preparing the
agenda and report for the Mid-Term Review and the Borrower's Project Evaluation Report. The latter
report, which would be due six months after the Project Completion Date, would form the basis of the
Implementation Completion Report that would be compiled by IDA.
F. IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION PLAN
4.15   Implementation. Details on the implementation of the different components of the project are
in Appendix 3. An implementation plan produced by the Borrower is in Annex H of the Supporting
Volume.
4.16   Supervision. Since the project involves innovative components for Albania, including communal
forest/pasture and protected areas management, the transformation of a Government department towards
a market enterprise, and also environmentally sensitive activities such as timber harvesting and forest
roads rehabilitation, careful project supervision would be undertaken by IDA. The project would be
supervised by IDA Headquarters staff on an average of three times per year for an estimated total cost
of about 75 staff-weeks. In addition, about half of the time of one project officer in the Bank's Resident
Mission would be allocated to deal with problems and issues arising between Headquarter missions. In
the first year, however, one additional start-up mission would be necessary, including a start-up
workshop. A detailed supervision plan is given in Appendix 5.



ALBANIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
CHAPTER V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. PROJECT BENEFITS
5.1   In relation to the principal project objectives (para. 3. 1), the project's activities are expected to
generate the following benefits: (i) economic production benefits from restoring degraded forest and
pastures; (ii) direct and indirect environmental benefits from preventing losses from soil erosion,
enhancing biodiversity and ecosystems protection, and preservation of protected areas; and
(iii) institutional and policy improvements that are expected to lead to higher degrees of efficiency and
sustainability of use of a public renewable resource, with provisions to safeguard stakeholder interests
and the creation of positive externalities through continued, but more focused public sector involvement.
Key indicators for progress would be: control of illegal harvesting operations; application of new-style
forest management methodology that would be geared to multiple and sustainable forest use; annual total
timber harvests not exceeding the AAC of net effective productive areas; achievement of the sector's
financial viability which will depend on competitive marketing and trade liberalization; and creation of
an autonomous Forest Corporation to deal with commercial, efficient exploitation of the resource.
5.2    Economic production benefits would accrue to the project from  incremental investment in
restoring and maintaining the production potential of forests and pastures; and more effective planning
and management of its utilization. These benefits, in connection with the above institutional and policy
reforms, are expected to improve the long term viability of the forest and pasture sector and would
consist principally of:
(a)    Incremental wood productivity of State forests generated by the project through:
(i) improved control of illegal cutting through DGFP's strengthened field services; (ii)
halting degradation and improving management of existing forests, based on new forest
management plans for 160,000 ha; (iii) reforestation by direct seeding or plantation on
1,000 ha of high forest areas in areas with expected high environmental benefits (clay
soils on slopes), where no natural regeneration has been successfully established
previously; (iv) pre-commercial thinnings on 29,000 ha; and (v) forest pest monitoring;
(b)    Incremental wood productivity  of communally  managed forest areas through:
(i) reforestation of hilly/mountainous areas; and (ii) clear-cutting and temporary fencing
of degraded shrub and coppice land to improve regrowth, mainly for fuelwood;
(c)    Increased production and productivity offodderfor livestock from communally managed
forest and pasture areas through: (i) an increase of fodder yields of pasture land by
fertilization, re-seeding and temporary fencing; (ii) the addition of fodder trees in pasture
areas; (iii) the interplanting in shrub areas with fodder trees; (iv) the clearcutting and
temporary fencing of shrubs to increase fodder yields (in addition to stimulate growth of
fire wood -- see sub-para. (b) above). These increases in fodder availability will allow
better feeding of the existing animal stocks, expand livestock numbers where the carrying
capacity allows, and encourage change in the composition of livestock towards more



Albania Foresty Project                    Page 44 -                         Staff Appraisal Report
productive and less damaging types (such as replacement of goats by sheep and cattle).
These changes will result in increased milk and meat production for subsistence and
sales;
(d)    Incremental productivity of non-timber products through: (i) increased possibilities of
hunting and tourism activities in State forests; (ii) collection, processing and marketing
of medicinal plants, wild mushrooms, and berries from State forests; and (iii) the
development of secondary forest product production from communal areas including
aromatic, medicinal or cosmetic plants and mushroom cultures, as well as their local
processing; and
(e)    Savings in lost production and productivity. Thanks to the expected impact of the project
in curbing on-going degradation of forest and pastoral resources, additional economic
benefits would be generated by foregoing lost production and productivity in wood, non-
wood forest products, and fodder. Without the project, further degradation would have
resulted.
5.3    Environmental benefits would be generated under the project through:
(a)    Soil protection. All reforestation activities will take place in steep terrain where the risk
for erosion is high. By re-establishing forest cover, with environmentally friendly
methods, where most of the work is done manually, the risk of erosion is very much
reduced. If these areas were not reforested, the bare land would be very vulnerable to
erosion;
(b)    Water quality and retention. Continuous forest cover improves water quality and the
capacity of the land to retain water, which is a very important function in many of the
steep mountain areas of Albania;
(c)    Improved biodiversity of the forests.  The reforestation sub-component has a strong
element of improving the biodiversity of the state forests since the restoration of forest
ecosystems, especially in areas with failed regeneration, would improve the conditions
of the ground flora and create favorable habitats for wildlife;
(d)    Improved health of the forests. Improved management of forests in general, would
improve the general health situation of the forests and the resistance to pest attacks;
(e)    Enhanced preservation of protected areas and one National Park for their biodiversity and
other environmental values; and
(f)    Increased carbon absorption from faster tree growth and expansion of tree cover.
5.4    The institutional and policy development supported under the project would create an
administrative and policy framework for a more efficient and sustainable use of State-owned forest and
pasture assets, based on market values, competition, incentives, and environmental soundness. The project
would build the base for placing commercially viable operations in the sector under an autonomous
corporation and reorganizing the remaining functions of a public goods or general services character,
including that of environmental management, under one or several Government agencies with transparent,
full or partial, funding from the central budget.



Albania Foraiy PoJect                      Page 45 -                         Staff Appraiaal Report
5.5    The project is expected to lead to a reduction of government support by making the sector
financially viable and a net contributor to the government:
(a)    Liberalized trade, competitive marketing and pricing of timber, and efficiency
improvements in forest management will allow the timber production sector to move from
a situation of depressed prices and sales volumes, and fiscal transfers, towards financial
viability and generator of fiscal incomes;
(b)    Institutional restructuring will lead to reduction, transparency and higher efficiency in the
allocation of fiscal resources limiting them in principle to ensure the generation of
external benefits and the provision of public goods and services; and
(c)    Several components of the project will require significant amounts of unskilled labor and
thus contribute to generate employment opportunities in rural areas although this is not
one of the project's principal objectives. The investments that are to be made in
reforestation and pre-commercial thinnings, in particular, are labor intensive. These
activities would provide significant employment opportunities in rural areas over the
project period. The project would also contribute to fostering rural entrepreneurship and
maintaining economic activity in areas facing difficulties during Albania's period of
economic transition.
B. MARKETS AND PRICES
5.5   In the immediate pre-project situation of the mid-1990s, the sustainable and technically feasible
supply potential for industrial timber (annual allowable cut) exceeded the domestic demand, even taking
into account significant illegal logging. The low demand is largely caused by the breakdown of timber
processing industries during the transition from State-owned to private sector enterprises and by the
quantitative restrictions and current ban on timber exports. Demand for fuelwood has, for a long time,
exceeded the sustainable supply capacity due to a history of a subsidized and centrally administered
distribution system. While the fuelwood subsidy was officially eliminated in 1994, the sales price has still
been set by DGFP and not by market forces, and customary preferences are being accorded to villagers
for their local fuelwood supply. These issues are expected to be resolved over the next few years:
(a)    A number of joint ventures with foreign partners have been established in the timber
processing industry that are expected to improve capacity and technical efficiency;
(b)    an early action program to reduce illegal logging would be implemented under the
project;
(c)    as part of the project's policy reform agenda, timber exports would be liberalized once
control has been regained over illegal logging, allowing foreign sales of surplus timber
at world market prices which are substantially higher than corresponding domestic prices
before the project; and
(d)    the full liberalization of domestic fuelwood distribution and prices will tend to lift fuel
wood prices closer to the price of alternative fuels such as electricity or kerosene.
Furthermore, it can be expected that, regardless of price advantages of fuelwood, over
time more convenient and attractive energy sources would be preferred as the economy



Albania Forestry Project                      Page -46 -                            Staff Appraisal Report
develops and incomes rise. Legal sales of fuelwood have fallen to record lows in 1995
and 1996.
5.6    Forest production in Albania is largely geared towards serving the domestic demand. While beech
wood, due to its high quality, appears to have good potential for export sales, the volumes available are
uncertain as a result of the lack of volume assessments. However, the trade, pricing and marketing
reforms proposed under the project would contribute to open up foreign markets and apply competitive
pressures on forest production and processing enterprises that will all result in efficiency improvements.
Domestic prices will be determined by demand and supply, using competitive bidding and auctions of
standing timber as the main mechanisms. Over time domestic prices would thus adjust to their border
equivalents. This will clear the markets and no major obstacles are therefore foreseen in terms of
marketing the incremental wood production generated under the project's activities.
5.7    However, within this liberalized system  of trade, pricing and marketing of forest products,
interventions and regulations are needed in three principal aspects:
(a)    The total annual allowable cut for the productive areas that would be re-assessed under
the project and regularly updated must not be exceeded by the harvesting volume in any
one year to ensure sustainable forestry production;
(b)    harvesting must be done in accordance with new style forest management plans that
ensure a sound spatial balance of harvesting and provide for the application of the results
of environmental assessments for selecting the harvesting areas, the roads rehabilitation
works, and the harvesting technology; and
(c)    auction of timber by the producing agency must have a pre-determined minimum price,
below which sales would not take place since it could lead to 'mining" of the resource.
T.his minimum price should be composed of two elements: (i) a royalty (a fixed fee per
area or share of the minimum price) to be paid to the owner (the Albanian government)
in compensation for the use of national assets (timber land and natural or previously
planted forest) and the associated external benefits these assets generate; and (ii) the
discounted cost of replacing the timber harvested, to be paid to the agency responsible
for forest management.
C. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS Isee also Annex I for details]
5.8    Assumptions. The quantified financial and economic analysis of the project is based on: (i) the
incremental value of timber, fuelwood and fodder (meat and milk) produced through project-supported
technical interventions in Albanian high forests and in communal forests and pastures (thinning,
reforestation, forest road rehabilitation, fuelwood plantations, pasture improvement, and fodder trees);
(ii) the long-term loss of forest productivity caused by illegal logging which would be reduced by
institutional strengthening;t3 (iii) market prices for the financial costs and values that are linked to the
adoption of the policy and institutional reforms proposed under the project, including improved control
13 The economic benefits do not include the value of direct revenues foregone from uncollected stumpage fees (which affect
the cash flow of thc Government and are irrelevant for the economic valuation). They reflect future prcduction that will not be lost
as a result of reducing illegal logging (broken trees, unremoved logs, damage to regeneration). These losses are conservatively
estimated at $0.75 million per year over the forty years that the forest will need to recover naturally from the damage.



Albania Forestry Project                    Page 47 -                          Staff Appraisal Report
over illegal logging, competitive timber sales and liberalization of trade in forest products; and (iv) the
adjustment of financial values to arrive at economic values by (1) adding reduced soil erosion as an
environmental benefit of reforestation on clay soils on slopes; and (2) pricing of unskilled labor used in
all forest works by applying a factor of 0.3 during the project implementation years in view of the current
high rate of unemployment in the forest areas and the current low level of income available from
alternative jobs such as gathering of herbs. The financial and economic analysis does not include
additional benefits that would be obtained from non-timber products (medicinal and aromatic herbs), non-
extractive values other than soil erosion such as hunting, improved hydrological conditions and carbon
sequestration, and the preservation value of forests (biodiversity value). Reliable estimates of these values
are not available or highly speculative. The economic analysis is therefore conservative and likely
underestimates the total economic value of the project.
5.9    Results. The project is economically viable, both as a whole and by component (excluding the
protected areas management component, which being a pilot project has not been valuated). Details of
the economic analysis using "best estimates" of the technical and economic parameters, are given in Table
5.1 below. The project ERR, based on the aggregation of the individual component cost and net benefit
streams, is estimated at 49 percent including the large and high-return road rehabilitation component.
The very high returns from road rehabilitation is mainly due to the sunk cost of former road construction
which is being exploited with relatively small rehabilitation expenditure, and because all of the wood that
can be extracted is considered incremental. Excluding this road rehabilitation component, the ERR of
the project would be 16 percent. Commercial reforestation of beech and black pine yielded an economic
return of about 5 percent and failed to reach the threshold ERR level of 10 percent (opportunity cost of
capital). During the project appraisal process, reforestation with native species was therefore excluded
from project support, except for reforestation on highly erodible soils where the benefits from reduced
soil erosion lifted the returns to above 10 percent.
5.10   Sensitivity. (i) The results of the economic analysis of timber production in the high forests are
not sensitive against changes in costs and benefits. This is largely due to the very long term nature of
the production cycle (80-100 years). (ii) For communal forest and pasture investments, most of which
are maturing faster, in particular the pasture investments, the analysis results are more sensitive to
changes in costs and benefits. However, even if costs are increased by 20% and benefits decreased by
20%, these investments do not loose economic viability. (iii) The investment in forest thinning generates
a good economic return and remains viable over a relative wide range of changes of costs and benefits,
since it improves the benefits from an existing, poorly exploited resource, i.e., existing forest stands.
(iv) The investment in forest roads rehabilitation which shows very high returns under the basic
assumptions used, remains viable under practically all circumstances. This is due to the sunk cost
character of roads that were built earlier, the relative low investments needed for rehabilitation, and the
attribution of the net value of all wood extracted from those areas as incremental benefits. (v) The
benefits attributed to institutional development are based on the estimated value of the damages of illegal
logging that would be prevented through institutional strengthening. This estimate is not based on
detailed, comprehensive and reliable surveys but on observations of the affected areas and intensity of
such damages. The value of the timber extracted illegally is not included in the damage estimate since
this timber will not loose its economic value by being used outside the legal channels. The investments
to help controlling illegal harvesting are only part of the costs included under institutional development,
which cover for instance the costs of all technical assistance, project management, education, training and
research. The effectiveness of the measures to ensure efficient forest management, initially mainly
through the reduction of illegal logging, is the most sensitive element of the project's justification. This
reduction can only be achieved over time and with initial investments in equipment and training. Should
the reduction in illegal logging not be possible during the first half of the project period, the justification
for continuing with project investments would be lost.



Albania Forestry Project                        Page -48 -                             Staff Appraisal Report
Table 5.1 Financial and Economic Rate of Return
PROJECTCoMIP'O~ME                                               RATE OF RETuRN
I                                                               |  FINANCIAL        ECONOMIC
Institutional Development                                                               15.3%
Improved State Forest Management                                                        17.9%
* Thinning Beech                                                        6.1%            17.4%
l * Thinning Pine                                                       11.6%           29.6%
* Reforestation Beech (slopes, clay soils) a/                           2.3%            12.4%
* Reforestation Pine (slopes, clay soils) a/                            2.8%            10.4%
Forest Roads Rehabilitation                                                            207.0%
Communal Forest and Pasture Management                                                  17.9%
* Improved Pastures                                                     19.2%           53.8%
* Fodder Tree Planting in Pastures                                      15.5%           27.1%
* Fodder Tree Planting in Shrubs/Coppice                                6.9%            19.0%
* Clearcutting of Shrubs/Coppice                                        2.1%            25.6%
* Afforestation w. Robinia (fuel wood)                                  2.6%            10.8%
* Afforestation w. Pine on Slopes                                       3.5%            10.6%
Protected Areas Management Pilot                                          not evaluated
Total Project, based on component net benefit streams                                   49.4%
Total Project without Road Rehabilitation                                                16.3%
Note: ai economic rate of returns do include environmental benefits from reduction of soil erosion
D. RISKS
5.11    Project risks regarding technical aspects of forest management, road rehabilitation and communal
forest and pasture management are considered low. Albania possesses the basic expertise to deal with
technical aspects of forest use.  Safeguards are built into the project that require modern forest
management planning methodology, environmental assessment and mitigating procedures, and regulations
concerning transfer and use of communal forest and pasture areas are in place before disbursements for
investments in these activities are made.
5.12    The main risks of the project relate to uncertainties about the implementation of the institutional
and policy reforms. Critical elements are the following. First, the State must regain control over forest
management and exploitation. Albania's forest resource is characterized by public ownership, an
extremely long production cycle, and the generation of important, though not easily quantifiable,
environmental and other external benefits. Without effective protection and management of the forests
the benefits expected from investments in forest and road works cannot materialize. To this end, the
project focuses on the implementation of a monitorable action plan to reduce illegal logging and the early
strengthening of the administrative capacity through the provision of physical inputs and staff reorientation
and training. It will also include more effective involvement of a broader range of stakeholders and of
affected communes and populations. Second, and building on progress made in forest protection, is the
need to achieve financial viability and sustainability within the sector, at least for its commercial
operations. To this end, market-oriented procedures, both in domestic marketing and external trade,
would be introduced to help overcome the current under-use and under-valuation of the forest resource,
while at the same time ensuring technically and environmentally sound procedures of exploitation. Third,



Albania Forestry Project                   Page -49 -                         Staff Appraisal Report
and depending on progress made in achieving both technical and financial viability, is the need to improve
the technical and economic efficiency of forest and pasture operations. To this end, the project would
support the separation of commercial forest and pasture operations from regulatory and policy activities.
The former are expected to become the responsibility of a financially autonomous enterprise, the Forest
Corporation, and the latter services would remain within a line department of the Ministry of Agriculture.
5.13   At the start of the project, these three critical elements presenting major risks are not in place
since investment and time are required to build competence and implement these actions. The risk to
achieve the policy and institutional goals is mitigated by allowing a relative long adjustment and reform
period of up to three years. This first half of the project period would be used to build capacity for
dealing with the issues, achieve consensus within Albania about the longer term arrangements for use of
the forest and pasture resources, and refine concepts and planning for the policy, legal and institutional
actions. This process would be facilitated and smoothened by a proposed high-level seminar in year two
to review strategies proposed for the development of the sector, and the mid-term review of the project.
The latter would be used to assess progress made in resolving the above critical aspects and, depending
on the outcome and achievements, to confirm or adjust the design and scope of project activities, in
particular the more heavy forest and road rehabilitation investments, as well as communal investments,
planned for the second half of the project. Firmness in decision making as well as flexibility in project
implementation would be further enhanced by the high level of authority given to the institutional
arrangements for project management and the use of annual work programming, budgeting and
contracting procedures for project implementation activities.



ALBANIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
CHAFrER VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1    During negotiations of the credit, agreement was reached with the Government on the
following:
(a)    a phased approach for project implementation and on the criteria for the establishment
of the future Forest Corporation at the mid-term of the project (para. 3.4);
(b)   the terms of reference of a Project Environmental Management Unit in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food, and its establishment no later than January 1, 1997 (para. 3.6);
(c)   the submission to IDA of a draft decision or law to establish the Revenue Account by
July 15, 1996 (para. 3.7);
(d)   the adoption of improved marketing and pricing procedures for timber and fuel wood,
their introduction no later than July 1, 1996, and maintenance of such marketing and
pricing procedures, acceptable to IDA (para. 3.10);
(e)   the procurement arrangements as described in Section E. of Chapter III (para. 3.18 -
3.29);
(f)   the enviromnental mitigation and monitoring plan to be implemented under the project
(para. 3.36 and Appendix 8);
(g)   the terms of reference and the qualification and experience of the Project Director (PMU)
and of the head of the Project Environmental Management Unit (PEMU) would be
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.1 (b) and (c));
(h)   the Project Management Unit (PMU) will not disburse for communal investments unless
the transfer of land to the commune had been effective and the "Agreement-Contract"
between DGFP and the participating commune had been signed in each case (para. 4.3);
(i)    only expenditures included in the approved work plan and budget, acceptable to IDA,
would be eligible for funding from project resources, and quarterly updates and revisions
of the project work plan and budget would be acceptable to IDA (para. 4.5 (ii) and (iii));
0j)   the terms of reference and the qualifications and experience of the following TA
assignments would be acceptable to IDA:  (i) the full-time advisor to the Project
Director; (ii) the scientific or forest management institution that would provide back-
stopping to PEMU; and (iii) the forestry policy specialist who would coordinate the
preparation of the forest and pasture sector strategy (para. 4.9); and
(k)   the auditing and reporting requirements as described in para. 4.13 and 4.14.



Albania PoreAtry Project                 Page -51 -                        Staff Appmiisal Report
6.2    Furthermore, the Government agreed to comply with the following dated covenants:
(a)   the exchange of views on the adequacy of DGFP's control over forest harvesting no later
than during the project's Mid-term project progress review (para. 3.11);
(b)   the draft work program and budget would be submitted to IDA no later than October 15
of each year (para. 4.5 (i));
(c)   the annual exchange of views with IDA, prior to the finalization of the budget, on the
investment program funded under the local "Revenue Account" (para. 4.7);
(d)   the sector strategy review documents would be prepared by June 30, 1997; public
workshops/seminars would be held, and a study and recommendations would be
prepared, by June 30, 1998; proposals for amending the forestry law and the draft law
on the protection of nature and biological diversity would be reviewed with IDA no later
than April 30, 1999; and the agreed proposal and draft law would be submitted to
Parliament no later than June 30, 1999 (para.4.9);
(e)   the carrying out of a Mid-term Project Progress Review before December 31, 1998
(para. 4.12).
6.3    A Condition of effectiveness of the credit would be the effectiveness of the three cofinancing
sources: the Italian Government loan; the Italian Government Grant and the FAO technical assistance
project; and the Swiss Grant (para. 3.16).
6.4    Conditions of disbursements of the credit would be:
(a)    for the preparation of management plans for State forests: the adoption of regulations for
new-style forest management planning methodology, acceptable to IDA (para. 4.2 (b));
and
(b)   for communal forest works investments under the communal forest and pasture
management component (excluding works financed under the pilot project with PPF
funding): the approval by Government of the Regulation, acceptable to IDA, for the
transfer of State forest and pasture land to communes (para. 4.3).
6.5    Recommendation. Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 5.5 million (US$8.0 million equivalent) at standard IDA terms with
40 years maturity.



Albania Forestry Project                                                            Page - 52 -                                                               Staff Appraisal Report
ALBANIA                                                                           Appendix I
FORESTRY PROJECT
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                      ISSUES & EFFECTS                                               ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY 
1. INMPROVE FOREST CONSERVATiON AND MANAGEMIENT
Reduce illegal harvesting of industrial wood. -DGFP is not provided with the -Implement action program to reduce illegal logging, including through additional road blocks and publicity
necessary resources to       campaigns [P]
effectively control felling and   -Strengthen field presence of DGFP with additional staff and training. (PI
the system of fines and     -Provide staff with improved transportation and communications equipment.  [P]
penalties is ineffectively   -Improve enforcement of laws and the implementation of the system for processing fines and penalties. [PI
applied.
Reduce over harvesting of coppice and   -Inventory and harvesting plans -Carry out forest inventory to determine productivity of forests. [P and 0]
shrub forests.                           and annual allowable cut     -Revise and improve harvesting plans in view of new economic goals and forests' reassessed productivity. [F]
(AAC) estimates for coppice   -Reassess AAC. [P]
and shrub forests likely
outdated.
DGFP unable to effectively    -Decentralize DGFP staff and improve field presence. [P]
manage and control harvesting  -Shift management and harvesting control responsibilities to communes and other local user groups. [P and U]
of coppice and shrub forests.   -Shift emphasis of DGFP actions from command and control to incentives as technical assistance providers to local
user groups. [P and U]
Demand for fuelwood exceeds  -Increase fuilwood supply by undertaking neglected silvicultural thinnings in high forests. [P]
supply.                      -Provide alternative fuels to substitute for fuelwood where feasible. [0]
-Promote private and communal forestry with fast growing fuelwood/ fodder species (in coordination with proposed
USAID supported project). [P and U]
-Eliminate trade restrictions and gradually decrease implicit subsidy to fuelwood by raising its price to level of
altemative fuels--improve public auctioning of wood products to develop market pricing. [P]
-imprve enforcement of illegal harvesting laws. [PI
Fuelwood price for legal sales  -Open fuelwood gathering rights to auctions as with other wood products fmm govenmment forests and set up
from govemment coppice and   community participatory groups to monitor the harvesting process. [P and 01
scrub forests is set by DGFP
and not determined by market
forces.
Improve the management of high forests for Management plans outdated    -Carry out new inventory of high forests. [P and 0]
greater, sustained productivity of wood and  and focus strictly on supplying  -Revise management plans to refocus production goals on new markets and to consider non-timber products (medicinal
non-wood products.                       state forest industries with  plants, nuts, fruits), environmental aspects (wildlife values for both managed hunting & biodiversity conservation) and
sufficient log supplies.     social factors. [PI
-Improve forest protection, especially through monitoring of pests. [P]
Natural regeneration fails or is  -Implement livestock control measures including fencing, intensive (e.g., cut and carry fodder) grazing. [P]
weak due, in part, to goat   -Improve pastures with better rotation of grazing areas, fertilizer application and improved seed. [PI
browsing.                    -Plant fast growth fuelwood and fodder species. [P]
-Develop pastoral infrastructure (e.g., construction of water points). [P]
-Reforest failed natural regeneration areas on clay soils and steep slopes. [P1



Albania Forestry Project                                                             Page - 53 -                                                                 Staff Appraisal Report
|OBJECITVES                     ISSUES & EFFECTS                                                 ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY *
Access to existing harvesting    -Rehabilitate and maintain existing forest access roads. [PI
areas are deteriorated, making  -Implement protected areas plan to assure inter alia, biodiversity and watershed protection on relevant areas of high
it difficult to carry out second   forest. [P]
and third felling to complete
,the harvesting cycle.
11. IMPROVE THE FINANCIAL SnUAToN OF THE FoREsTRY SECTOR
Eliminate trade barriers to allow domestic    Barriers to trade remain (ban   -All barriers to trade in forest products should be established onc this forest administration has regained control over
prices to rise to international levels.  on the export of logs, poles,   illegal logging [PI
sawn wood and fuelwood)      -To safeguard that harvesting volume remains within AAC, forest management and control needs to be strengthened.
which lower costs to domestic  [PI
consumers leading to
inefficiencies and poor use of
resource.
Improve productivity of forests.         High forests have untapped    -Carry out inventory of high forests. [P and 0]
productivity due to inadequate  -Revise management plans to refocus production goals on new markets where Albania has a clear
management and outdated      competitive/comparative advantage and to consider non-timber products (medicinal plants, nuts, fruits), environmental
management goals.            aspects (wildlife values for both managed hunting and biodiversity conservation) and social factors. [P]
-Improve forest protection, especially monitoring of pests. [P]
III. SUPPORT TnE TRANSnITON TO A MARxEr ECONONtY
Reorganize government agencies to adapt to  DGFP responsible for       -Establish a new Forest/Pasture Department with a reduced role in policy-making, planning, regulatory and monitoring
market economy and provide necessary     productive and protective     function and service provision. [PI
equipment, training and technical assistance.  forestry activities for which it  -Establish an autonomous Forest Corporation (FC) which would be financed by forest revenues and operated like a
does not have adequate training private sector firm. [P]
or resources to effectively  -Establish capacity outside the sector administration and project implementing agencies for carrying out environmental
implement.                   management, environmental assessments and monitoring the sector. [P]
-Prepare a human resource development plan to assess present skills to be matched with required task and job
descriptions. [P]
-Implement a training program for forestry staff including technical assistance and foreign study tours for improved,
sustainable, multiple-use management and harvesting techniques, timber sales and auctions, marketing, basic business
principles and market economics. [PI
-Improve training facilities at the Forestry Technicians School at Shkoder and research capacity at the Forestry and
Pasture Research Institute. [P]
*) Actions to be taken by:   P supported under the Project
U expected for support by USAID
0 separate action by the Govemment of Alb&nia or other donor agency



ALBANIA
FORESTRY PROJECT                                      Appendix 2
EVOLUTION OF ALBANIA'S FUTURE FOREST ADMINISTRATION
0r
STATE             ~~~~~~S-TATE        $eigSTATE'-- 
.  /  I  i        STUMPAGE FEES.
( BUDGEBUDG             ETEURRET )                                 CORPORATE TAX,
\ . ~~~~~~~~~~~ t S ~~~~~~~~~VALUE-ADDED TAX|I
@  _*  FOF(EST
*I< CORPORATION' 
l   I l?03                                            4~~~~~~~~~~~~......
FOREST-_o               / FOREST &                                 OREST &
t  FOREST                    ATR                                    PASTURE)   |
REEUESEVNS
;100 %          \50.40%              _50.60%}
PRE-P:C  FMEDIUM-TERM GOAL (1999)
PRE-PROJECT FINANCIAL              PROPOSED FINANCIAL               .       * Commercial Operations of DGFP + Revenue
PROCESS               ~~~~~~~PROCESS DURING                Account merged into Forest Corporation
PRO S                 INTERIM PERIOD (1997-98)                Policy and Service Functions of DGFP --> New
INTERIM PERIOD (1997-98)     ~~Forest & Pasture Dept. in Min. of Agriculture



ALBANIA                                                                  Appendix 3
Forestry Project
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Target Date                 Action or Activity                                                                                  Responsibility
Project Start-Up Activities                                                                      0fi
Mar-95 to Jul-96 (ongoing)    Implementation of Pre-Project Phase Activities (PPF-Funding)                                     .DGFP-PMU
Nov-95 to Dec-96 (ongoing)   Implementation of PHRD-Grant Funded Technical Assistance, Training and Study Tours                .DGFP-PMU
Apr-96                      :Completion of National Survey of Forest Roads and of Detailed First-Year Rehabilitation Program for Review by.DGFP
IDA
Apr-96                      Completion of Comprehensive Project Operations Manual, as well as First-Year Project Work Program and  PMU
.Budget, including Detailed Procurement Plan, for Review by IDA
Apr to Jun-96              .Formalize and Sign Loan and Grant Agreements with Government of Italy; and of World Bank Administered    *Minister of Finance,
'Swiss Grant Agreement                                                                             *with assistance from
.  DEDAC
un-96                     ::Complete Bidding Documents for Major First Year Procurement of Vehicles, Equipment and Civil Works, and  .PMU
Training and Research Programs, for Review by IDA
un to Sep-96               Recruitment of Technical Assistance by FAO (for Italian Grant) and PMU (for Swiss Grant)           *PMU and FAO
un-96                     .Decrees Issued for Establishment of Project Steering Committee, Project Management Unit (PMU) reporting to  Minister of Agriculture
*it, and the Project Environmental Management Unit (PEMU)
ul-96                      .Issue Bidding Documents for ICB of Vehicles and Equipment and for NCB of First Year Roads and Forest    .PMU
:Works
May to Sep-96              .Formalize Twinning Arrangements for DGFP and PEMU                                                  *DGFP and PMU
ul-96 or earlier           Legal Opinion from Minister of Justice on the Approval of the Development Credit Agreement          Ministry of Justice
I E



ALBANIA                                                                 Appendix 3
Forestry Project
IMPLFMENTATION SCHEDULE F
Target Date                'Action or Activity                                                                               :Responsibility
Main Project Implementation Activities
Jul-96 or earlier          ,Declare Project Effective (al external funding sources effective)                                .IDA                            0
Jul-96                      Recruit Additional Staff/Consultants for PMU and PEMU                                            *PMU                            X
Jul-Dec 96 and Jun-Dec 97    Major ICB Procurement and InstaDlation of Transport and Office Equipment        ,PMU
ul-96 to Dec-97            Main Rehabilitation/Construction of DGFP Field Offices                                           .PMU-DGFP
from Jul-96 to end of project  ,Preparation of Forest Management Plans                                                       ,DGFP-FPRI
ul-Oct 96                 :Survey and Analysis of Reforestation Needs and Preparation of Proposal for Project-Funded Reforestation  .DGFP
:Activities
from Jul-96 to end of project  .Implementation of Pre-commercial Thinning Activities Using Contractors                       .DGFP
from Jul-96 to end of project  .Implementation of Forest Roads Rehabilitation Program Using Contractors                      .DGFP                            0
from Mar-97 to end of project Implementation of Reforestation Activities Using Contractors                                    DGFP and Communes
from pre-project phase to end  :Implementation of Communal Forest and Pasture Management Activities, Starting with Pilot Project for Three  ,PMU (during pre-
of project                 ,Communes                                                                                         :project), then DGFP and
:later FD
ul-96 to Jun-99           .Implementation of Protected Areas Management Component                                           ,DGFP
Nov-96 to June 97           Prepare Forest and Pasture Sector Strategy Review Documents                                      .PMU-FAO
ul-97 to Sep-97            Workshop/Seminar on Policies and Options for Albania's Forest and Pasture Sector                  .PMU-FAO; IDA,
cofinanciers,
.Government, USAID
Oct-97 to Jun-98          ::Prepare Proceedings of Workshop/Seminar and Study with Policy and Strategy Recommendations       .PMU-FAO                        >
Jul-98-Jun-99              .Prepare and Review Revised Proposals for Amendments of Forestry Law and new Law on Protection of Nature .PMU-MAF
.and Biological Diversity, and submit to Parliament



ALBANIA                                                                  Appendix 3
Forestry Project
IMPLEMFNTATION SCHFnUL F
Target Date                .Action or Activity                                                                                 .Responsibility
May 98 to Oct 98            Preparation of Mid-term Evaluation Report including Proposals for Creation of Forest Corporation and  PMU, Selected
:Adjustment of Project Design, as Appropriate                                                      .Evaluation Agency,             0
IFAQ
Nov-98                      .Project Mid-term Review and Evaluation                                                             IDA, cofinanciers. FAO
Aug-98 to Dee-98            .Final Preparation and Legal Measures to Establish Forest Corporation and Forest and Pasture Department  PMU, FAO, Council of
Ministers
from Jan-99                 Operation of Forest Corporation, and of Forest and Pasture Department in Ministry of Agriculture and Food  Forest Corporation,
Ministry of Agriculture
Ce
9J
i.
L,



ALBANIA                                                                   Appendix 4
Forestry Project
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICA ORS                                                                                >
Target
0
!   I  Date
1 Achievement of Overall Project Objectives
(i) Restore Degraded State Forest and Pasture Areas and Promote their Sustainable Use                                                                             X
* Guidelines for New-Style Forest Management Plans Developed                                                                          I    Jul-96
* New-Style FMPs Effectively Implemented in 57 Forest Units                                                                             end of Project
* Illegal Logging Reduced to Below 3 % of Annual Allowable Cut                                                                        I    Jun-98
* Road and Harvesting Investments Made in Areas Where Second and Third Fellings Needed to Complete Harvesting Cycle
and Stimulate Natural Regeneration                                                                              t                   I  continuous
* Regulation Adopted for Transfer to Communes of State Forests and Pastures                                                                Jul-96
* State Forest and Pasture Areas Transferred to 30 Communes, with Development Plans Prepared and Implemented                            end of Project
(ii) Promote Conservation of Natural Forest Ecosystems
* Regulations and Procedures Developed for Environmental Impact Assessment of Forest Activities                                            Jun-97
* Effective Institutional Framework Developed to Implement Project Related Environmental Management (CEP, PEMU)                       I    Jun-97
* All Environmental Mitigation Measures of Project Implemented                                                                            continuous
* National Biodiversity Strategy and draft Law on Biodiversity Protection Developed                                                   I    Jun-98
 No New Forest Access Roads Built or Harvesting Areas Opened up unless after Approval by PEMU/CEP of Full-Fledged                    I
Environmental Impact Assessments                                                                                                    I  continuous
* Pilot Project for Protected Areas Management Successfully Completed                                                                       Jun-99
* New National Biodiversity Protection Project Identified and Prepared                                                                I    Apr-99
(iii) Adjust Forest/Pasture Sector Operations to Market Econo,nv
* Improved Procedures Adopted for Pricing, Sales and Harvesting of Domestic Forest Products                                           I    Jul-96
* External Trade in Forest Products Liberalized                                                                                             Jun-98
* Domestic Prices of Forest Products Reflect Border Prices                                                                            I    Dec-98
* Positive Fiscal Balance of Funding Flow for Commercial Forest and Pasture Operations Achieved                                            Dec-98
* Policy, Regulatory and Service Functions for Forestry and Pastures Separated Institutionally from Commercial Operations   I               Jan-99
* Timber Harvests Increased (and Limited) to Annual Allowable Cut Calculated for Areas with Road Access                                    Jun-99
2 Project NManagement, and Institutional and Policy Reforms                                                             _                   _
* DGFP Revenue Account in Operation                                                                                                        Oct-96
* Bidding Documents Issued for ICB of Vehicles, and Communications and Office Equipment by                                            I    Jul-96               Ca
* Decrees for Establishment of Project Steering Committee, Project Management Unit (PMU), and Project Environmental  I
Management Unit (PEMU) Issued by                                                                                                    I    Jul-96                >
* Resident Senior Advisor (FAO-GCP) in Post by                                                                                             Aug-96
* Terms of Reference Finalized and Issued for Forest and Pasture Sector Strategy Review by                        I                   I    Sep-96
* Human Resource Plan Prepared by                                                                                                          Dec-96
* Review of Effectiveness of DGFP Action Program to Reduce Illegal Forest Harvesting and, if positive, Achieve Lifting of   I         E
Export Ban on Wood Products by                                                                                                            Jun-98



ALBANIA                                                                 Appendix 4
Forestry Project
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Target
!            !    ~~~~Datea
* Draft Report Available from Consultants on Forest and Pasture Sector Strategy by                             I                  I   May-97
* Final Report on Forest and Pasture Sector Strategy Available with Agreed Recommendations                     I                       Jun-98
* Terms of Reference Finalized and Lead Consultants Recruited for Preparation of Project Mid-term Review, including the    I
detailed Preparation of Institutional Reform Proposals by                                                                             Jun-98
* Implementation of Mid-Term Project Review during                                                                                I    Nov-98
* Legal Establishment of Forest Corporation and Forest/Pasture Department in MAF by                                                     Jan-99
3 Major Physical Targets for Project Implementation                                                                l                  X
Office Construction/Rehabilitation
* Office Construction/Rehabilitation Completed for 5 DGFP District Offices by                                                     i   May-98
* Office and Stable Construction/Rehabilitation Completed for 90 Sector Offices by                                                     Dec-98
Forest Management
*  9 Additional Road Blocks to Control Timber Traffic Established by                                             V                       Dec-96
* New-Style Forest Management Plans Completed for                                                                I 1 pilot unit by   I    Dec-96
additional,'   12 units by       Dec-97
additionalf    16 units by       Dec-98
additional:    17 units by    I    Dec-99
additionall    12 units by       Dec-00
* Thinning Operations Completed for                                                                         1     4,000 ha by b       Feb-97
additional:   5,500 ha by    I    Feb-98
and additional 6,500 ha in each year thereafter,
* Reforestation:
Completion of Survey of Reforestation Needs and Preparation of Detailed Proposal for Area Selection, Seed/Seedling Supply, a    e
Cost Estimate and Implementation Schedule for Review with IDA by                                                                      Oct-96
Reforestation in High Forest Areas Completed for a total of                                                  I     ,000 ha by    I    Dec-00
Forest Roads Rehabilitation
* Forest Roads Survey Completed and Draft Roads Program Prepared                                                                  I    Apr-96
* Completion of Rehabilitation Work for                                                                             115 km by          Dec-97
additional:    75 km by          Dec-98
additionall    160 km by         Dec-00
Communal Forest and Pasture Management                                                                                                                        >
* DGFP Approval of Investment Plans for Three Pilot Communes by                                                                   I    Feb-96
*Transfer of DGFP Forest & Pasture Land to Three Pilot Communes by                                                                     Feb-96
* Investment Plans Approved and Land Transferred for an additional                                             1  3 communes by  I    Dec-97
* Investment Plans Approved and Land Transferred for an additional                                                6 communes by        Dec-98
* Investment Plans Approved and Land Transferred for an additional                                             I  8 communes by  I    Dec-99
 Investment Plans Approved and Land Transferred for an additional                                             1  10 communes by        Dec-00



ALBANIA                                                                Appendix 4
Forestry Project
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Target               I
I                 ~~~~~~~Date,0
Protected Areas Management                                                                                     ;
* Completion of Lura Park Development Plan by                                                                                        Jun-97
* Completion of Training, Rehabilitation and Equipping of 5 District Offices and Implementation of Lura Park Development   ;    '
Plan by                                                                                                                            J e    lun-98
4 Administrative Matters and Reporting
Draft Annual Project Work Program and Budget Submitted                                                             each year by         15-Oct
Quarterly Project Progress Reports Submitted                                                                                      I30-Apr; 31-Jul;
each quarterby  ;31-Oct; 31-Jan
Annual Audit of Project Accounts Submitted    _I   each year by    I    30un



ALBANIA                                                                 Appendix 5
FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
Year                                                                                                                                    Weeks
IDA Fiscal.       Specific Activities to be Reviewed (besides General Reviewv of Implementation Progress)  jExpected Skill Requirements j Estimated Staffm
FY 96      Project Launch Mission (4/96)                                                                                                    8.0
* Review progress of pre-project, in particular implementation of communal pilot project and training/study   ;Forest Engineer,
tours                                                                                          1Economist,                I
* Review Project Operations Manual and Implementation Plan                                      lProcurement,
* Review First Year Work Program and Budget                                                     'Finance and/or
* Review Draft Bidding Documents for ICB Procurement of Vehicles and Equipment, and for First-Year  iOffice Technology,
Procurement of NCB Office Rehabilitation, Forest and Roads Works                               :Operations (Resident
* Review Road Rehabilitation Program, based on National Survey                                  iMission)
* Review progress made in reduction of illegal logging
* Review status of Cofmancing Arrangements (Italy, FAO, Switzerland)
* Review Terms of Reference for TA positions
* Hold workshop on procurement, monitoring, reporting, accounting and audits, and preparation of work
programs and budgets
FY 97      Supervision Mission (7/96)                                                                     i                                 5.0
* Review Effectiveness of Institutional Changes: Project Steering Committee, PMU, PEMU, DGFP    jForest Engineer,
Restructuring, Forest Council                                                                 iEnvironmental Economist,   I
* Review Monitoring and Accounting System                                                       'Operations
* Review Procurement Progress (Vehicles, Equipment, Works)                                      i(Resident Mission)         I
* Review Human Resource Plan and Training Program
* Review Status of Procurement of TA and of Twinning Institute
* Review Guidelines for New-Style Forest Management Plans and Status of Implementation of Pilot
Management Project
* Review DGFP Marketing and Pricing Procedures
* Review Roads Rehabilitation Program
* Review Status of preparation of first-year communal program
Supervision Mission (11/96)                                                                                                      5.0
Work Program and Budget Review for Project Year 2                                              'Forest Engineer
* Review of Proposal for Project-Funded Reforestation                                           IEnvironmental
Review of Reorganization of DGFP                                                               :Economist,                                             >
* Review of Status Preparation of Lura Park Development Plan                                    IOperations                 X
* Review TOR and Preparations for Sector Review                                                 ,(Resident Mission)         !     _     _



ALBANIA                                                                 Appendix 5
FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
IDA Fiscal        Specific Activities to be Reviewed (besides General Review of Implementation Progress)   j Expected Skill Requirements j Estimated Staff
Year                                                                                                                                     Weeks
Supervision Mission (3-4/97)                                                                                                       4.0
* Review Forest and Roads Work Programs and Contracts                                             iForest Engineer,
* Review Draft of Forest/Pasture Sector Study                                                     'Environmental Economist
,Operations (Re-
sident Mission)
FY 98      Workshop on Forestry/Pasture Sector Long-term Policy (7/97)                                                                        8.0
* Review and Consensus Building on long-term policy options                                       IForest Engineer,
* Review of DGFP Reorganization,Strengthening and Human Resource Development                      :Forest Economist,
* Review of Effectiveness of DGFP Forest Management/Control                                      lInstitutional Specialistm   I
* Review of Demand/Supply of Forest Products                                                     1Environmentalist,
* Review Justification for Forest Trade Liberalization                                            IOperations
* Review Draft Proposals for Legal and Institutional Structure of Forest Corporation and of Business Plans    1(Resident Mission)
Supervision Mission (11/97)30
* Work Program and Budget Review for Project Year 3                                               'Forest Engineer,
* Review of TOR and Arrangements for Preparation of Project Mid-term Evaluation                   ;Operations
'(Resident Mission) I
FY 99      Supervision Mission (7/98)                                                            _                 _fi            _           4.0
* Review Preparation of Project Mid-Term Evaluation                                               iForest Engineer,
* Review Impact of Forest Trade Liberalization                                                    ,Operations
* Review Completion Protected Areas Management Component                                          i(Resident Mission)         I
Mid-Term Project Evaluation Review (11/98)                                                      1                           1      13.0
* Review Project Results Achieved in aU Activities, and Agree on Necessary Design Changes         iForest Engineer,
* Review Feasibility to Establish Autonomous Forest Corporation and Forest/Pasture Department in MAF, and lForest Economist, Institutional a
Agree on Action Plan to Implement this Institutional Change, including Further Detailed Preparation Needs  1Specialist,
1Environmentalist,
*Completion Report for Protecled Areas Development                                                Operations
* Proposal for Follow-Up Operation to Protect Forest Biodiversity                                :(Resident Mission)                                      >
* Review Proposed Legal Structure, Detailed Organization and Financial Plan for Forest Corporation and MAF I
Department for Forests and Pastures
* Work Program and Budget Review for Project Year 4                                               1



ALBANIA                                                                  Appendix 5
FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
IDA Fiscal         Specific Activities to be Reviewed (besides General Review of Implementation Progress)     Expected Skill Requirements; Estimated Staff
Year                                                                                                                                        Weeks                   8
Supervision (3-4/99)                                                                             tE      i                    t      5.0                   :I
* Review Establishment and Initial Operations of Forest Corporation and Forest Department           Economist,                 tI
1Forest Engineer,                                        3
1Operations
:(Resident Mission)
FY 00      Two Supervisions (11/99 and 3-4/00)                                                                               _ t10.0
* Review of Operation of new Forest Administration Structure                                       ;Economist,
* Work Program and Budget Review for Project Year 5 (11/99)                                        ;Forest Engineer,
* Review of Proposals for Funds Reallocation (3-4/00)                                              iOperations
(Resident Mission)
FY 01      Supervision Mission (11/00)               E                                                           __X__          ____
* Arrange for Preparation of Borrower's Project Evaluation Report                                  [Economist.
* Identification of Follow-On Operation, if Justified                                              :Forest Engineer.                                          P
* Review of Arrangements for Continued Funding of Project Recurrent Costs                          'Operations
i(Resident Mission)
Project Completion Nlission (11/01)    __40
* Review of Borrower's Evaluation Report and Preparation of IDA's Project Implementation Completion  'Economist,
Report                                                                                           iForest Engineer,
* Review Arrangements for Sustainability of Project                                                 Operations
I(Resident Mission)         I
FY 96 - 01 Total of 13 Missions                                                                                                          I      75.0
In addition to the above supervision input from Headquarters during missions, about half of the time of one
local project officer from the Tirana Resident Mission would be allocated to follow-up onn day-to-day
implementation issues between missions.
ii



Appendix 6
ALBANIA
Forestry Project
Components Project Cost Sumnnary
Table AS-1
(Lek'000)                                       (USS '000)
%    % Total::                                  %     % Total
Foreign   Base                                  Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign      Total   Exchange Costs    Local    Foreign      Total   Exchange Costs
1. Institutional Support                         64,616.8   404,503.8   469,120.6     86      28       702.4   4,396.8    5,099.1      86      28
2. Improved State Forest Management             476,304.7   264,984.6   741,289.3     36      44,   5,177.2   2,880.8    8,057.5       36      44
3. Rehabilitation of Forest Roads               141,450.0    80,270.0   221,720.0     36      13-,   1,537.5    872.5    2,410.0       36      13
4. Communal Forest and Pasture Management       194,244.9    12,886.2   207,131.1      6      12.   2,111.4      140.1    2,251.4       6      12
5. Protected Areas Management                    20,097.4    19,830.6    39,928.0     50       2       218.5    215.6      434.0       50       2
Total BASELINE COSTS                              896,713.8   782,475.2  1,679,189.0     47    100'   9,746.9   8,505.2   18,252.1       47     100
Physical Contingencies                           89,671.4    52,849.0   142,520.4     37       8.      974.9    574.4    1,549.1       37       8
Price Conitingencies                            248,312.0    62,890.9   311,202.9     20      1 91    1,508.0    297.1    1,805.1      17      10
Total PROJECT COSTS                              1,234,697.0   898,215.2  2,132,912.0    42    127.  12,229.6   9,376.7   21,606.3       43     118
ALBANIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingency
(USS '000)
Table AS-2
1995    1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      Total
1. Institutional Support                        186.0   2,030.4   1,138.9    969.4    589.2    569.9    5,483.8
2. Improved State Forest Management             327.1   1,912.6   1,894.2   1,894.2   1,831.8   1,960.8    9,785.4
3. Rehabilitation of Forest Roads                  -      290.9    445.2    601.1      750.4    883.3    2,971.0
4. Communal Forest and Pasture Management        47.2     194.3    280.7    550.1      753.9   1,040.7    2,867.0
5. Protected Areas Management                      -      304.4    120.9      73.9         -         -      499.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                               560.3   4,732.7   3,84.4   4,088.7   3,9.3   4,454.8   21606.3



Appendix 6
ALBANIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
Table A6-3
Improved                  Conmnunal
State    Rehabilitation   Forest and  Protected
Institutional  Forest       of Forest     Pasture       Areas
Support    Management      Roads      Management  Managerment       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil and Forest Works
Road Rehabilitation                   0.00         0.00      2,151.43         0.00          0.00      2,151.43
Other Civil Works                     8.53       537.40          0.00         0.00         58.28       604.20
Forest Works-Reforestation            0.00      1,216.16         0.00         0.00          0.00      1,216.16
Forest Works-Thinnings                0.00      2,580.64         0.00         0.00          0.00      2,580.64
Communal Forest Works                 0.00         0.00          0.00      2,396.27         0.00      2,396.27
Subtotal Civil and Forest Works         8.53      4,334.20     2,151.43      2,396.27        58.28      8,948.70
B. Equipment                          435.72       741.60          0.00        20.83         53.49      1,251.70
C. Vehicles                           414.17       921.60          0.00        38.56        127.03      1,501.36
D. Training & Studies
Training in Albania                 101.10         0.00          0.00         0.00         71.37        172.47
Training Abroad                     280.38         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00       280.38                                   L
Studies                             232.60       592.70          0.00        23.46          0.00       848.70
Subtotal Training & Studies           614.08       592.70          0.00        23.46         71.40      1,301.60
F Management Plans                      0.00      1,631.20         0.00         0.00         82.40      1,713.60
E. Technical Assistance             3,118.50         0.00         41.31       100.01         23.88      3,283.70
Total Investment Costs                4,591.00      8,221.30     2,192.73      2,579.13       416.45     18,000.60
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries                     365.66         0.00          0.00        180.45        10.71       556.82
B. Equipment Operation & Maintenance   48.95        57.19          0.00         1.35          3.43       110.92
C. Vehicles Operation & Maintenance   398.53      1,506.89         0.00        81.61         68.61      2,055.64
D. Road Maintenance                     0.00         0.00        778.23         0.00          0.00       778.23
E. Other                               79.63         0.00          0.00        24.43          0.00       104.06
Total Recurrent Costs                   892.78      1,564.08       778.23       287.84         82.75      3,605.68
Total PROJECT COSTS                    5,483.80     9,785.40      2,970.97     2,866.96       499.20      21,606.30
Taxes                                 200.79       708.50        331.88       316.69         20.38      1,578.20
Foreign Exchange                    4,636.45      3,304.60      1,037.96      160.41        241.75      9,376.70>
'0



Appendix 6
ALBANIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
Table A64 
1995         1996         1997          1998         1999         2000         Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil and Forest Works
Road Rehabilitation                          0.00       285.36        379.81       454.63       505.17        526.45      2,151.43
Other Civil Works                            2.75        259.20       214.00       128.30         0.00          0.00       604.20
Forest Works-Reforestation                   0.00         0.00         70.85       264.31       396.00        485.00      1,216.16
Forest Works-Thinnings                       0.00        328.02       461.32       568.57       596.56        626.16      2,580.64
Communal Forest Works                        0.00        103.95       212.64       443.53       659.26        976.90      2,396.27
Subtotal Civil and Forest Works                2.75       976.50       1,338.60     1,859.40     2,156.99     2,614.50      8,948.70
B. Equipment                                 174.18       814.00        192.50        71.00         0.00          0.00      1,251.70
C. Vehicles                                  300.96      1,046.06       154.34         0.00         0.00          0.00      1,501.36
D. Training & Studies
Training in Albania                          0.00         67.75        54.02        45.83          4.88         0.00       172.47
Training Abroad                              0.00         56.83        61.74        68.62         48.74        44.45       280.38
Studies                                      0.00        283.70       197.50       216.00         80.50        71.10       848.70
Subtotal Training tStudies                     0.00        408.30       313.20       330.40        134.10       115.50      1,301.60
F Management Plans                             0.00        81.20        369.10       409.70        416.60       436.90      1,713.60
G. Technical Assistance                       11.00       957.80        856.20       696.23       408.80        353.70      3,283.70
Total Investrnent Costs                        488.89      4,283.90     3,224.00      3,366.70     3,116.50     3,520.00     18,000.60
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries                             45.29         92.46        94.57       103.74        104.96       115.80       556.82
B. Equipment Operation & Maintenance           6.36         17.81        23.47        24.36        23.79         15.14       110.92
C. Vehicles Operation & Maintenance           16.50       319.69        425.18       436.24       423.51        434.52      2,055.64
D. Road Maintenance                            0.00         0.00         57.95       137.69       235.64        346.96       778.23
E. Other                                       3.30         18.84        19.29        20.02        20.86         21.74       104.06
Total Recurrent Costs                           71.45       448.81        620.46       722.04       808.76        934.16      3,605.68
Total PROJECT COSTS                             560.33      4,732.70     3,844.40     4,088.70      3,925.30     4,454.80    21,606.30



Appendix 8
ALBANIA                                                                                  2
Forestry Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Sunmmary
Table A6-                                                                                0
(Lek '000)                                               (US$ '000)
%Total                                                   % Total
Foreign     Base                                         Foreign      Base
Local     Foreign      Total    Exchange    Costs        Local      Foreign     Total    Exchange    Costs
I. Investdent Costs
A. Civil and Forest Works
Road Rehabilitation                       112,700.0    48,300.0   161,000.0        30         10,    1,225.0       525.0     1,750.0        30          10
Other Civil Works                          41,066.5     6,313.5    47,380.0        13          3 -     446.4        68.6      515.0         13           3
Forest Works-Reforestation                 86,029.1      327.0    86,356.1          -          5       935.1         3.6      938.7          -           5
Forest Works-Thinnings                    189,428.0          -   189,428.0          -         11      2,059.0         -      2,059.0         -          11
Communal Forest Works                     171,120.0          -   171,120.0          -         10.    1,860.0          -      1,860.0         -          10
Subtotal Civil and Forest Works             600,343.6    54,940.5   655,284.1         8         39'.   6,525.5       597.2    7,122.7          8          39
B. Equipment                                 11,665.6    90,736.9   102,402.5        88          6-      126.8       986.3     1,113.1        89           6
C. Vehicles                                        -   123,957.1   123,957.1        100          7.          -     1,347.4     1,347.4       100           7
D. Training & Studies
Training in Albania                        13,372.5          -    13,372.5          -          1       145.4           -      145.4           -          1      i
Training Abroad                                   -    22,080.0    22,080.0       100          1           -       240.0      240.0        100           1
Studies                                    31,740.0    34,500.0    66,240.0        52          4,      345.0       375.0      720.0         52           4
Subtotal Training & Studies                  45,112.5    56,580.0   101,692.5        56          6-      490.4       615.0     1,105.4        56           6
E Management Plans                          120,814.4     4,563.2   125,377.6         4          7.    1,313.2        49.6     1,362.8         4           7
F. Technical Assistance                      17,480.0   276,341.1   293,821.1        94         17-      190.0     3,003.7     3,193.7        94          17
Total lnvestment Costs                        795,416.0   607,118.9  1,402,535.0       43         84      8,645.8    6,599.1    15,244.9        43          84
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries                            41,586.3          -    41,586.3          -          2       452.0           -      452.0           -          2
B. Equipment Operation & Maintenance          1,312.2     7,435.6    8,747.8         85          1        14.3        80.8       95.1         85           1
C. Vehicles Operation & Maintenance          24,143.1   136,810.9   160,954.0        85         10.      262.4      1,487.1    1,749.5        85          10
D. Road Maintenance                          28,750.0    28,750.0    57,500.0        50          33      312.5       312.5      625.0         50           3
E. Other                                      5,506.2     2,359.8    7,866.0         30                   59.9        25.7       85.5         30           -
Total Recurrent Costs                         101,297.8   175,356.3   276,654.1        63         16      1,101.1     1,906.0    3,007.1        63          16
Total BASELINE COSTS                           896,713.8   782,523.5  1,679,189.0      47         100.    9,746.9     8,505.2    18,252.1        47         100
Physical Contingencies                       89,671.4    52,849.0   142,520.4        37          8.      974.7       574.4     1,549.1        37           8
Price Contingencies                         248,312.0    62,890.9   311,202.9        20          19,    1,508.0      297.1     1,805.1         16         10
Total PROJECT COSTS                           1,234,697.0   898,215.2  2,132,912.0      42        127,   12,229.6     9,376.7   21,606.3         43         118
a
'V



Albania Forestzy  Project                                                    Page -68  -                                                   Staff Appraisal Report
Appendix 7 - A
Project Procurement Ilan: Equipment and Vehides
No.            Type of Package                       Detailed             Base          Cost w/   Procurement   Technical    Invitation   Delivery by
Cost Table            Cost           Conting.           Method    Specifications   to Quote
Reference   (US$'000)  (US$'000)                                        Prepared by:   Sent by:
A. Computer Equipment
A.1 Computer equipment for                           1.1, 1.3                  22.1             24.2          NS                            --completed- --
DGFP, PMU (PPP)
A.2 Computers, laser printers,                    1.1, 1.3, 1.4,             379.1            428.8           ICB              30/06/96           31/07/96           31110/96
software, UPS (for DGFP,                      2.1, 5.1
PMU, PEMU, Protected
Areas Management)
A.3 GIS System for Communal                             4.1                    18.7             20.8          NS               30/06/96           31/07/96    31/10/96
Forestry Component
Subtotal. Computer Equipment                                                 419.9            473.8
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
B. Offce Equipment
B.l Equipment for DGFP, PMU                          1.1, 1.3                  10.8             11.9          NS                            --- completed---
(PPF)
B.2   Fax and Photocopier (for                       1.1, 1.4                 51.6              57.3           IS              30/06/96           31/07/96           31/10/96
DGFP, PEMU)
B.3  Office equipment                                   1.2                    45.7             51.2           IS              30106/96           31107/96           31110/96
for FTS and FPRI
Subtotal: Office Equipment                                                   108.1            120.4
..................................................................................................I.............................................................................................................................................
C. Furniture
C.l  Furniture for PMU  (PPF)                           1.3                    11.0             12.1          NS                            --- completed- - -
C.2 Furniture for PEMU,                           1.1, 1.4,2.1                83.0              92.5           IS              30/06196           31/07/96           31/10/96
prefectures, districts,
technical units
C.3  Furniture for sectors                              2.1                   97.0            110.9            IS              30/06/96           31/07/96           31/10/96
Subtotal Furniture                                                           191.0            215.5
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
D. Radio Equipment
D.l Radio Equipment (PPF)                            1.1, 2.1                 114.5           125.9            IS                       radio equipment needs
to be further defmed
D.2 Radio equipment for DGFP,                        2.1, 5.1                  65.0             72.5           IS                         during negotiations
Protected Areas
Subtotal: Radio Equipment                                                    179.5            198.4
APPEND7AXLS



Albania Forestry  Project                                                   Page - 69 -                                                  Staff Appraisal Report
Main Procurement Packages: Equipment and Vehicles (continued)
No.            Type of Package                     Detaued              Base          Cost w/    Procurement               Technical           Invitation      Delivery by
Cost Table            Cost          Conting.          Method          Specifircations    to Quote
Reference         (USS'000)   (US1'000)                                Prepared by:          Sent by:
E. Field Equipment
E.1   Field  equipment for FTS                         1.2                 109.0             121.5           IS             30/06/96           31/07/96           31/10/96
and FPRI
E.2  Field  equipment for districts,                   2155..                                    .1          IS             30/06/96           31/07/96           3110/96
sectors, technical units
Subtotal Field Equipment                                                   156.4            176.6
....................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
F.Other Equipment
F.1 BooksandmapsforDDGFP                               1.1                    0.8               0.8         NS                                                   30/09/96
F.2  Books and maps for DGFP                           1.1                    0.8               0.9         NS                                                   30/09/96
F.3 Books and maps for DGFP                            1.1                     0.8             0.9          NS                                                   30/103/96
F.4  Horses                                            2.1                   18.0             20.8          NS
F.5  Horses                                            2.1                   18.0             21.3          NS
F.6  Horses                                            2.1                   18.0             22.2          NS
Subtotal Other Equipment                                                    56.4             661  9
...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total: Equipment                                                        1,113 3          1,25136
...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
G. Vehieles
G.1  4 wheeldrive for DGFP,                     1.1, 1.3, 2.1,             273.6            301.0          ICB                           --- completed ---
PMU, techncial units,                           3.1
communal forestry (PPF)
G.2  4 wheel drive for FPRI, PMU    1.2, 1.3, 1.4,                         296.4            330.2          ICB              30106/96           31/07/96          31/10/96
PEMU, technical units,                          2.1
protected areas
G.3  Cars for DGFP, PMU,                        1. 1, 1.2, 1.3,            515.S            574.5          [CB              30106196           31107196          31110196
districts, communal forestry,                2.1, 4.1
bus for Technician School
G.5  Motorcycles (sectors)                             2.1                 126.9            141.4            IS             30/06/96           31107/96          31/10/96
G.6  Motorcycles (sectors)                             2.1                 135.0            154.3           IS              30106197           31107197          30111/97
Subtotal Vehicles                                                       1,347Z4          1,501.4
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Equipment and Vehicles                                                             2,-753.0
APPEND7A.Xt S



Albania Forestry Project                          Page - 70 -                             Staff Appraisal Report
Appendix 7 - B
Project Procurement Plan: Civil and Forest Works
No.         Type of Package         Estimated    De-tailed   Estimated    Total    Procurement       Works to
Number   Cost Table    Cost per    Value of    Method              Begin
of      Reference    Contract    Contracts                       by:
Contracts               (US$'000)   (US'000)
A. Office Construction/Rehabilitation
A.l  PMU office rehabilitation (PPF)    I           1.3             2.8         2.8      NS           completed
A.2  PEMU office rehabilitation         1           1.4             5.8         5.8      NS             1/9/96
A.3  DGFP district offices              3          2.1             32.7        98.2      NS             1/9/96
A.4  DGFPdistrictoffices                2          2.1             33.5        67.0      NS             1/6/97
A.5  DGFP sector offices/stables       30          2.1              4.0       120.5      NS             1/9/96
A.5  DGFPsectoroffices/stables         30          2.1              4.1       123.4      NS             1/6/97
A.6  DGFPsectoroffices/stables          30         2.1              4.3       128.3      NS             1/6/98
A.7  Protected areas office             3          5.1             11.6        34.7     NS              1/9/96
rehabilitation/construction
A.8  Protected areas office             2          5.1             11.8        23.6      NS             1/8/97
rehabilitation/construction
Subtotal: Office Rehab./Consiruction   102                                    604.3
B. Forest Road Rehabilitation
B.1  1996 program                       5          3.1             58.2       290.9     NS
B.2  1997 program                       6          3.1             64.5       387.2     NS           continuous,
in accordance with
B.3  1998 program                       8          3.1             57.9       463.4     NS         annual workplan
and budget
B.4  1999 program                       8          3.1             64.4       514.8     NS
B.5  2000 program                       8          3.1             67.0       536.3     NS
Subtotal: Road Rehabilitation          35                                   2,192.6
APPEND7B.YIS Primt [M: 3/11/96



Albaniia Forestry Project                                           Page - 71 -                                            Staff Appnsal Report
Project Procurement Plan: Civil and Forest Works (continued)
No.             Type of Package                  Estimated        Detailed          Cost w/          Total        Procurement             Works to
Number         Cost Table    Conting. per   Contract               Method                  Begin
of         Reference          Contract          Value                                   by:
Contracts                        (USS'000)        (US'000)
C. Reforestation
C.A    Beech-400 ha (1997-2000)                       10              2.3                   34.8           348.0   force acct.
(Direct Seeding)                                                                                                                   continuous,
in accordance with
C.2   Black Pine on steep                             10              2.3                   41.4           413.7         NS            annual workplan
slopes-200 ha (1998-2000)                                                                                                          and budget
C.3   Black Pine on gentle                            10              2.3                   37.9           454.5         NS
slopes-400 ha (1998-2000)
Subtotal: Reforestation                               30                                                1,216.2
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
D. Thinnings
D.1   Black pine-22,000 ha                            60              2.3                   32.7        1,959.4          NS               continuous,
(1996-2000)                                                                                                                    in accordance with
annual workplan
D.2   Beech (1996-2000)                               15              2.3                  41.4           621.2          NS               and budget
Susblotat Thinnings                                   75                                                2,580.6
............................................................... ._ ..... .. .......    ................. ._ ...............  __ .......................... .  . .....  . . . .._
TotaL Reforestation and Thinnings                    105                                                3,796.8
.__ .  .............. ............. .............................................   ___ ....... ._ ...........    ......  ..... .  ........... .._._.__.. . ..............  . .....     . . ...
E. Communal Forest and Pasture Works
e.1    Contacts wiLh communes (1996)                   3                    4.1            34.7            104.0
E.2   Contracts with communes (1997)                  6                     4.1            35.4           212.6   community               continuous,
participation    in accordance with
E.3   Contracts with communes (1998)                  12                    4.1            37.0           443.5   procedures           annual workplan
agreed with            and budget
e.4   Contracts with conmmunes (1999)                 17                    4.1            38.8           659.3         IDA
e.5   Contracts with communes (2000)                  24                    4.1            40.7           976.9
Subtotal Conwnal Works Contracts                      62                                                2,396.3
APwPODDX.LS PrA Dre: 3/ Ii6



Appendix 8
ENVIRONNENTAL MITIGATION AND MoNTroRING PLAN                                                                         >
MITIGATION MEASURE                                          PHASE          RESPONSIBLE J FREQUENCY OF MONITORING/I    CosT/FU7NDING          INTEGRATED IN PROJECT
_  I                 |  AGENCY              REPORTING          ll                               DT SIGN         l  
Laws
1. The DGFP shall prepare and implement an action plan  Prior to Negotiations  FPRI, DGFP             Once             DGFP regular staff and    SAR para. 3.9
that details the steps to be taken in preventing illegal                                                            operations: PPF funding
harvesting. The action plan shaUl define the indicators                                                             available if needed                             l
and methods to be used to monitor its effectiveness and
shaUl be approved by the Bank prior to loan negotiations.                                                                                                           l
2. The PMU shall contract with a third party consultant       Years 1-5          PMU          Annually for Years 2-5    Funds for local experts    SAR para. 3.6 and para.
suitable to the Bank to monitor the progress and success                                                            provided under PEMU:   4.1(e)
of the illegal harvesting plan.                                                                                     and for TA provided by
FAo
3. Trade liberalization for the export of timber and timber  Mid-termn review or  MAF               AnnuaUy            No incremental costs     SAR pam. 3. 11, pam.
products shall not occur either prior the mid-term review   earlier                                                                          4.9, and para. 4.12
of the project or to the Bank's acceptance of successful
results of the plan to prevent illegal harvesting and of a
recalculation of the national AAC.
4. The PEMU, CEP and DGFP shal work together to revise  Revisions in Year 2,   MAF, CEP          Draft Law, 1997       Funding provided through SAR para. 4.9
the draft Law on the Protection of Nature and Biological   gov't action in Year 3              Final Law, 1999      project resources allocated
Diversity and submit it for discussion by the Council of                                                            to PEMU and TA iiiput
Ministers at the earliest feasible date. Where appropriate,                                                         from FAO
the Law on Nature Protection and Biological Diversity
shal specify its primacy over parts of existing laws (e.g.,
within the Forest Law) that are redundant or
contradictory. Revisions to the law shall incorporate
recommendations developed during discussions on the
Forest and Pasture Sector Study and on the Biodiversity
Strategy, which wil be conducted in 1996 and 1997.
Government action on the draft Law shall occur before
year 3 of the project.
5. At least two working meetings of the Project Steering     On-going            MAF         Summaries of meetings and  No incremental cost     SAR para. 4.1(a)
Committee shal be open to the public each year to                                         decisions to be reported to
develop public awareness in Albanian forestry and                                           Bank and co-fiuancing
provide a forum for public involvement in forest policy.                                   agencies quarerly or bi-
annually.                                                                  >
6. The head of the PEMU shall be a voting member of the        Year I         MAF, PMU                 Once            No incremental cost      SAR para. 4.1 (a)
Steering Conmuittee.                                  _



Appendix 8
ENVIRON%ffiNTAL MmGATION AND MONITORING PLAN
# MITIGATION MEASURE                                          PHASE          RESPONSIBLE  FREQUENCY OF MONITORING/          COST/FUNDING       INTEGRATED IN PROJECT
AGENCY             REPoRTING                                            DESIGN
7. The PEMU shall be responsible for the preparation of        Year I           PEMU                On-going           Project resources are    SAR para. 4. 1(c)m
ElAs for forest management plans, harvesting plans, and,                                                            provided for PEMU
road rehabilitation activities. The ElAs are to be                                                                  operations, as well as for
approved by the CEP. The roles and responsibilities for                                                             recruiting and training
environmental assessment of forestry projects shall be                                                              local experts, and for the
established by the PEMU in year I of the project, and                                                               provision of TA from
shall include the participation of the CEP, MNH, and                                                                FAO
IBR.
8. The PEMU, wvrking with the PMU, shall be responsible        Year I        PEMU, PMU              On-going           Project resources are    SAR paras. 3.6, 4.8 and
for identifying appropriate individuals within the                                                                  provided for PEMU        4.10
Environmental Monitoring Unit of the DGFP, the CEP,                                                                 operations, as well as for
the FPRI, and specialists from the IBR, MNS, and FNS                                                                recruiting and training
to jointly receive technical assistance in the preparation of                                                       local experts, and for the
forest management plans, ElAs, and other environmental                                                              provision of TA from
training under the project.                                                                                          FAO
Forest Management Plans
9. Forest management plans shall be updated according to      Years 1-5      FPRI, PEMU             On-going           Cost of environmental    Supporting Volume,
standards and methods acceptable to the Bank and shall                                                              expertise (S2,740 per    Annex B, paTrs 14 and
include results of loral and faunal inventories and                                                                 management unit) and of  15.
recommendations on mitigations for their protection                                                                 environmental review by a
prepared by bio!ogists from the IBR and MNH.                                                                        third party (S900 per unit)
has been budgeted under
the project
10. The PEMU sh. i work with the CEP and foreign               Year I         PEMU, CEP         draft guidelines to be  See mitigation measure #9 See mitigation measure
technical expee lo prepare guidelines for the preparation                               submitted within 3 months of                        #9
of ElAs, including procedures for determining whether an                                   technical assistance, final
EIA is necessary and its scope, depending on the                                           guidelines with 6 months
_ proposed forest opertion.                              _                                                            I_I
Forest Road Rehabilitation
I_I The DGFP shall develop, with the assistance of the   prior to road rehab.  DGFP, PEMU  draft BMPs to be submitted 4 Project resources for local SAR paras. 3.6 and
PEMU, best management practices for minimizing         bids to contractors              months prior to preparation of and international experts  3.36(b)
environmental impacts from road rehabilitation, which are  (expected in Year 2)          bid documents, final BMPs 2 to assist PEMU and                                      M
to be incorporated into technical specifications for the                                        months prior        DGFP are provided
request for bids for road rehabilitation contracts.                                                                                                                          >
12 The PEMU shall prepare ElAs for individual road            Years 1-5        managed by            On-going           Costs of EIA are included SAR paras. 3.6 and
rehabilitation projects. The scale of the EIA effort should                  PEMU,                                  in design costs for road    3.36(b)
reflect the size of the rehabilitation project and the                     prepared with                             rehabilitation
potential for significant impacts (i.e., small ElAs for                    DGFP, FPRI,
localized rehabilitations and detailed, with floral and                     IBR, MNH,
faunal field studies of the road area and entire forest unit                reviewed by
for large-scale rehabilitations).                                              CEP



Appendix 8
ENvtRoireiNwTAL MMGATION AND MONIfORING PLAN
# MIGATION MEASURE                                            PHASE         REsPONsiBLE FREQUENCY OF MONITORING/          COST/FUNDING       INTEGRATED IN PRO1ECT
AG ENCY            REPORnNG                                           DESIGN                   .
13. Road rehabilitation activities shall be undertaken only  As needed       PEMU, CEP             On-going          No incremental cost      SAR pam. 3.36(d)
after implementation of the illegal harvesting action plan
in these areas, completion of the road rehabilitation
engineering standards, and completion of an
environmental assessment or EIA of the proposed
activities.
14. The PEMU shall periodically inspect road rehabilitation  As needed         PEMU                On-going           Operational funding for   SAR para. 3.36(b)
projects during or immediately after operations to ensure                                                          PEMU is provided under
that the recommended mitigations have been followed,                                                              the project
and submit a brief report to the CEP.
Forest Harvesting
15. The PEMU, FPRI, DGFP, MNH, and IBR, shall identify   Within 3 months of  PEMU, MNH            Once, 1996          Costs included in budget  SAR para. 3.36(c)
forest units with current forest management plans (less  project approval                                         for
than 10 years old) where forest harvesting is unlikely to                                                          DGFP and PEMU
have significant impacts to biodiversity, either within the
forest unit or within the region. The resulting forest units
will be candidates for forest harvesting prior to updating
of the forest management plans during years I and 2 of
the project. ElAs will be prepared for proposed
harvesting operations in accordance with Mitigations 7
and 10. For the remaining forest units, forest harvesting
shall not be implemented prior to updating of the forest
management plan.
16. Foreign technical assistance from IUCN or another         Year I            PEMU              Once, 1996          Project resources are   SAR paras. 4.8 and 4.10
qualified contractor shall be provided under the project to                                                        provided for PEMU
provide professional development and training for site-                                                            operations, as well as for
specific and regional biodiversity analyses and planning to                                                       recruiting and training
appropriate staff of the DGFP, FPRI, to the PEMU, and                                                             local experts, and for
to specialists from the MNH and IBR.                                                                               provision of TA from
l_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   FA O
17. The harvesting code shall include standards for snag       1997          FPRI, PEMU             Annually          Project resources are   SAR para. 4.1(c), 4.2(b)
retention and maintenance of heterogeneous mix of forest,                                                          provided for FPRI and    and 4.8
shrub, and herbaceous.                                                                                            PEMU opertions, as wel
as for recruiting and
training local experts, and                            >
for provision of TA from
L___________                                                  FAO.
18. Spring field surveys for the capercaillie shall be       Years 1-5       FPRI, MNH              On-going          Costs included in budget  SAR pam. 4.2(b)
conducted prior to preparation of harvest plans and during                                                         for FPRI.
preparation of forest management plans. This mitigation
applies to the districts of northem Albania where this
species is known to occur.



Appendix 8
ENvtonomTAL NIMTIGATION AND MONTORING PLAN
_  MITIGATION MEASURE                                         PHASE          RESPONSBLE| FREQUENCY OF MONITORING/          COST/FUNDING       NTEGRATFD IN PROJECT
L                   j |  AG,ENcY            REPORfnNG                                          DEsI6N
r                                                                Biodiversity and Protected Areas Network
19. The recommendations on protected areas from the     Prior to Negotiations   MAF                   Once            No incremental cost      SAR para. 3.34
ecological survey (Habili et al, 1995) shall be approved
by the MAF prior to negotiations of the forestry loan.                                                                                      _
20. The Biodiversity Strategy should be completed in year 2    Year 2           PEMU             Annually, 1996-7     Funded under the project  SAR para. 4.9
of the forestry project, and shall be coordinated with                                                             with support from UNDP
prepanrtion of the Forest and Pasture Sector Strategy.                                                             and GEF
Participalory Management
1. The PMU and PEMU shall schedule and coordinate             Year I            PEMU        Preliminary schedule to be  No incremental cost    SAR para. 3.36(b), 4.9
consultation with stakeholders for all components of the                                  submitted 6 months after                         and 4.12
forestry project, including, but not limited to, the Forest                                   project approval
and Pasture Sector Strategy, Forest Management Plans,
and ElAs.



Albania Forestry Project                       Page - 76 -                           Staff Appraisal Report
ALBANIA                                      Appendix 9
FORESTRY PROJECT
ACTION PLAN
F(OR REDUCING ILLEGAL FOREST HARVESTING
Proposed Actions                                1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000    cost
(US$)
LOCAL PEoPLE
- Training (3-day Sessions/Prefectures)                   9      48      48       48      48       -
- TV Broadcasts                                           9       9       9       9       9      5,000
- Brochures/Forest & Pasture Legislation                 1000    1000                            2,000
- Information Report/Illegal forest Harvesting            *
- Awareness/Schools (nb of Schools/"Forest Day")         90      180    300      300     300
- Local Information (nb of Districts)                     9       9       9       6       3
- Communal Forest Management                      3       6       12      18      24      30
(nb of Communes)
- Participative Forest Protection (Pilot Operations)      2       4       4      tbd    tbd
COMMERCIAL ILLEGAL LO.GING
- Training (one-week Sessions/"Hot' Districts)            9       9       9       6       3
- Road blocks (creation)                                  9                                     18,000
- Road blocks (Operation)                         8       17      17      17      17      17       -
- District Patrols (nb of Districts)                      9       18      18      18      18       -
- Logs Identification (nb of Districts)                   9       18      18      18      18       -
- Independent Inspection Patrols                  1       2       3       3       3       3
- Fines collection improvements                           *       *       *       *       *
Monitoring
Monitoring of the action plan to reduce illegal forest harvesting would deal with the following:
the implementation of the plan, by assessing actual implementation of the different activities listed
in the table above in the annual progress report;
the impact of the plan on illegal harvesting, by analyzing the annual reports from the Cadastral
District Units which are expected to document the following indicators:
-       number ot "offense reports" established by the District Forest Services for illegal
harvesting,
-       importance of the ot'enses measured by: number of illegally cut trees, volume cut
(extracted and remaining in the forest), area affected by illegal cutting;
-      legal suite for each offense: number of cases sent to the court, number of cases treated by
the court, number ol' cases punished, nature of the punishment.



Albania Forestry Project                 Page - 77 -                       Staff Appraisal Report
Appendix 10
ALBANIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PRoJEcT FILE
1.    Albania: Forest Sector Review and Forestry Project. Reconnaissance Mission. Report No. 78/92
CP-ALB 3. FAO, Rome, Investment Centre, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme. June 18, 1992.
2.     Albania: Integrated Forest Management Project. Preparation Report (2 Volumes) No. 15/94 CP-
ALB 12. FAO, Rome, Investment Centre, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme. February 8, 1994
3.     Albania: Preparation of a Forest Cover Map and Reconnaissance Forest Inventory of Albania.
Technical Report No. GCP/ALB/002/IDA. P. Reichert/A. Di Gregorio, Environmental Information
Management Service, Sustainable Development Division, FAO, Rome. May 1995.
4.     Albania: Forestry Project. Environmental Assessment Report. FAO, Rome, Investment Centre,
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme. February , 1996.
5.     Directorate General of Forests and Pastures: Action Plan to Reduce Illegal Forest Harvesting.
March 1, 1996.
6.    Habili D. et al.: Ecological Survey of Selected High Forests in Albania. July 1995.
7.     Openshaw, Keith: Albania - Suppy and Demand for Wood and Other Biomass Energy (part of
World Bank's Energy Sector Review for Albania). No date.
8.    Ruzicka, I.: Sustainability Without a Big Stick: A Study of Forestry Policy in Albania. Draft
May 5, 1994.
9.     Weill-Hebert, Q. and M. Dedieu, Office National des Forets, Paris: Albania - Integrated Forest
Management Project. Post Preparation Mission Report (institutional proposal). February 13, 1995.
10.   World Bank: Albania- Environmental Strategy Study. Report No. 11784-ALB. June 11, 1993.
11.   World Bank: Foresty Project. Working tables supporting the economic and financial analysis
of the project and the forest management models. January 22, 1996.






MERD 27265
r ~     ~      W 'S :.-  /-------t 
Ko! /- tL) g /  ) X ' -                                                                     YUGb[LAVIA
CROATIA                                                    [    0
42 SC'                                                                   *         'N~              - O:
1  0 
/  iAiESi  T/POlE   K
T           A cMAOHEI1 N 
r                       
N  if~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/'F  i'pbk    /                '        ~
4055                                                                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  oo ': t~A                                                             ? -X  0 t  >       
I  k e l  M,                'I A.t } R l E ' R t  c -   ' S _       
(Sh 1    J  -                PlseKrlf   S,X EP  A,       ,
ALBANIA                                                                              P.
FORESTRY  PROJECT                                F-shcKcjc6  . 6'        or                          1.
8;  ,,,  .     R M A T       r   
_   FOREST NI' 1`r P r VHICH FOREST                                                4*e  *R
-41 3X'                   MANAGIVM`, I LAI`TS WOULD BE                                                                             ; .>.o ('. ~ 1oI. Y R.
EEVLI     DEEmS ETOIPT                   0 1 NF. -                                 B
~~~~~~  ~Buo-EL>\
p    LUJRA NATIONAL PARK FE                            O      TIRA NA
I_.-  D STRICT' W-TH MAJOR FORE ST           01l                                  >     
1.'MANAGEtENT INTERVENTIC:;N       IV' e.)       j        TIEANA   <          *
o    SELECTED C TIES                                                                    B R.ZH
3   DISTPICT CENTERS                                            I
*    NAT ONAL CAPITAL                             F'A VAI V     ; .                             *l
RIVEPS                                                                                               4i
1 C0_   .D STRICT BOUNDARIES                                  r
' ' >   . ,    'S /t   Pla>APAI (O RADE8 9 
ilC:AFTERS    C   20   Sc   A )   St                                      E BASAN
~~~l CIO ~     KIOE'R
ope ,, . l" 's301  -x,,, \ 1. *. Mollq ) < X
DENMR                       'N ,                          V,, ,5              /            / ce -         J.>I          ~           F       4
t `;3X    -11  -IL0                                                        il--I.         AIr>
2OTEI i                              SLATS _-21t                     vEr                                                    o - i     s- ir    _,
r9$,: ,-    j,e.,'  
1, ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                             '>.J,   \,r,  s  SA.<:L,I
TEItOT                                                     / ,-.,                   GREEtCE
TALS           N-            j< i                                             |       ;f5
^  AIBAN~ 17 
SNOVEMER 1E995






t   \,   IS 30     !                 ]~~~       ~        ~       ~~~~~ ~~~9|  1 9'30,  .>       00                       20'3q                        21 601'
' <.1                                         ' . 1\  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEDERAL REPUBlIC  OF YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA                                                                   ,                ,   ,                               '                             20
42'30'~~~~~~ 4' 16';'                                                                  R t,  
- X2 00'                                        ,         1   , .  )      f   s   <            /)7U4E S   j                1                 47 ~~co%'q). -
ALUBANIARAS X _^.t w;
AGRICULTURE a FRUIT TREES/f(.t>                                                              J     . r  
GRASSLAND  a UNPRODUCTIVE LAND Lzd4     
SCRUB OR DEGENERATE FORESTS                                         1    e     J                   DBRt
MEDITERRANEAN MAOUISlB !                                                                            .,-   M   > ehk
HIGH SCRUB OPEN FOREST                                      Air,           ;              AA
FORESTS                                                  f      _                                     )     1
DECIDUOUS                                                       KR                    .    
AI 10'CONIFEROUS                                                                                                                                               41 '30-Q-, Nlqz 
WATER BODIES &RELAIED VEGETATION:                  DURt9              _                                U     \F Y  R                        413
L . SWAMPY AREAS                                     y                           A ,t.r  
. I S~~~~~~~~~~ DISTRICT CAPITALS ;O-\,F< *\ 
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                            \>           >      Q             Ajt4 H 
RIVERS                                 ,                 6Kwvj  0,-jFirzd 
- -DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                    KAVAJE    6      *       '.    -,      *                 j    I
E,p qPEjQIN\      ;Slon                     ;            "
. LlUS NJE* '\- f  40-
I -i             c                                          F4                                            .."Po  : -t    ilMfS i
18>30'                      19,00,            tf\         }     ar               B       ,'             .% 'Siv                      eEt  t  VOLL i
t    5we>n   Y   \,>    ,,   _        \.     ,  ,,      kb4~~~~~~~~~~~ALLAKASt,R  5, '-)SKRAPAR          ,,0I,t 
/   ;-_,  t-.P.>IiD             oretd 540 30'                                                                                40 30 -
NEHJ  S              v   NU5  \                       1~~~~~~~~~ior RNs  iv                            ER            rrLO<NJ
- j Na > _ _..~~~~~~~~~~~~._! bo < st Tep~~~~~~~~~~411  e>    
t U,W   ^.S  *7r   )              '                  j>fi,               *\>W .1 rUPELNE    <      <,trent '
w1  B   r^  t_ < _  _-s;  *-n                      _           A         C           M           S      p~~~~~~~~~~ONJ
2    :   /<~~~~~;   wo^AnsA  ......................... ,, DE;s.i \'\ 4000-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.ek                  e~
>   FED  e  &, . _  ./   >                ._                         9      . '   ' 
f   * s A  \  rsA  (SWl^9>-   k                                       SoronZ ~~~Is   i    '      4G E C 
v.  e|  .L,   J  ,_ _L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                              ~~    i ~T K          NE                  K6lrt 
oD G.A









IMAGING
Report No:        15104 ALB
Type: SAR



