                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 28783

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (PPFI-P9050 IDA-28460 TF-20909 TF-20893 TF-29312)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.5 MILLION (US$8.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                                ALBANIA

                                                 FOR A

                                         FORESTRY PROJECT




                                           November 30, 2004




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Southeast Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective November 15, 2004)

                    Currency Unit = Lek
                             Lek 1 = US$ 0.0102
                             US$ 1 = Lek 97.8

            Exchange rate at Appraisal (June 25, 1995)
                          US$ 1 = Lek 93.3

                          FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1      December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CEP      Committee for Environmental Protection (CEP)
DANIDA   Danish International Development Agency
DGFP     Directorate General of Forests and Pastures (DGFP)
FAO/CP   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations/Cooperative Programme
FC       Forest Corporation
FD       Pasture Department
FPRI     Forest and Pasture Research Institute
FPUAs    Forest and Pasture Users Associations
GEF      Global Environmental Facility
GIS      Geographic Information Systems
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IFAD     International Fund for International Development
MAF      Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
NBF      Non-Bank Financed
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGO      Nongovernmental Organization
NS       National Shopping
NTFPs    Non timber forest products
PEMU     Project Environmental Management Unit
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PMU      Project Management Unit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SIDA     Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
SNV      Netherlands Development Organisation
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WFP      World Food Programme


                   Vice President:       Shigeo Katsu
                Country Director         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                  Sector Director        Laura Tuck
               Task Team Leader          John Fraser Stewart

                                           ALBANIA
                                  FORESTRY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37

Project ID: P008271                                                  Project Name: ALBANIA FORESTRY PROJECT
Team Leader: Gerhard Dieterle                                        TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 6, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: ALBANIA FORESTRY PROJECT                                 L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9050; IDA-28460;
                                                                                                     TF-20909; TF-20893;
                                                                                                     TF-29312
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Forestry (46%); Central government administration (41%);
                            Agricultural extension and research (13%)
                  Theme: Land management (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P);
                            Infrastructure services for private sector development (S);
                            Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/22/1994                                     Effective: 08/01/1996                08/09/1996
     Appraisal: 06/25/1995                                         MTR: 11/01/1998                  12/09/1999
      Approval: 04/16/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ALBANIA/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
                      Other Partners:      Italy (TF-20909), Japan (TF-29312), Switzerland (TF-20893)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Kemal Dervis
Sector Director:                Laura Tuck                                     Anil Sood
Team Leader at ICR:             Gerhard Dieterle                               Ewald Goetz
ICR Primary Author:             John W. Fraser Stewart


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project had three principal objectives:

    (i) Restore degraded State-owned forest and pasture areas and promote their sustainable use;

    (ii) Promote conservation of natural forest ecosystems; and

    (iii) Take the initial steps in the transition of the forestry/pasture sector to a market economy,
    separating commercial from regulatory functions and establishing mechanisms for self-financing of the
    commercial activities.

These three overarching project objectives were important for the country and sector and supported
implementation of the Bank's country assistance strategy, in that they were aimed at halting or reversing
degradation of natural resources, maintaining or increasing the values of the State's forest and pasture
assets, and increasing incomes and resource security for poor rural communities.

Based on the information available during project preparation, all three objectives appeared to be realistic.
Technical aspects of forest management, road rehabilitation and communal forest and pasture management
were considered to be relatively low risk, since the required basic technical expertise was already available.
Implementation of the institutional and policy reforms needed to regain control over illegal forest
management and exploitation, establish financial viability and sustainability, as well as technical and
economic efficiency of forest and pasture management were correctly identified at entry as the main project
risks. Given the importance and urgency of the challenge to the country, and based on the information
available at the time, the level of risk was considered acceptable and the project strategy to mitigate these
risks was considered appropriate.

The project worked primarily with one institution, i.e., the Directorate General of Forests and Pastures
(DGFP) within the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF). Project components contributed toward the
project objectives, and project activities targeted areas where the need for interventions was greatest and
most urgent, and in areas where local communities expressed the greatest motivation to participate.
Deficiencies in implementing agency capacity were alleviated through provision of a Project Management
Unit (PMU), and cofinancing arrangements were sufficiently flexible to allow for scaling up of successful
project activities where appropriate.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not formally revised. However, the experience gained during implementation, as
well as the nationwide breakdown of civil order associated with collapse of financial institutions that took
place in March through December of 1997, together with a large temporary influx of refugees during the
Kosovo crisis in 1999, led to a shift in emphasis and design of project activities at midterm, so as to most
effectively achieve project objectives. In particular, given the period of difficult governance at the national
level, and the successful experience in Albania with community based development approaches, the
communal forest/pasture management component was scaled up, both as a means of protecting the more
fragile forest ecosystems and as a means of moving towards self financing (by communities) of forest
operations and management. Planned investments in forest roads were scaled down when it became
apparent that improved access would have assisted illegal and unsustainable use of forest resources rather
than improved management.




                                                        - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:
The project was originally intended to be implemented over a period of six years (including a one year
pre-project phase) and was to include the following four investment components:

1.      Institutional Development ($5.1 million base cost including $2.95 million in grant funded
technical assistance). The component included the following five sub-components:

        (a)      Reorganization and strengthening of DGFP ($0.6 million). The Directorate General of
        Forests and Pastures (DGFP) as part of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF) was to be
        reorganized by: (i) decentralizing its management by establishing an administrative structure at the
        prefecture level to better serve district and sector offices with personnel and finance management,
        marketing, engineering design and forest management planning; (ii) developing capacity to manage
        its new roles in communal forest and pasture management, and in pasture administration and
        development in general, through integration of management functions of the former pasture
        enterprises into the mainstream forest administration; (iii) developing market economy skills for
        bidding, contracting, marketing, financial management, and involvement of the private sector
        through information and training campaigns; and (iv) establishing and operating a "Revenue
        Account" to generate local resources for forest investments outside the project, and adjusting
        DGFP's budgeting and accounting processes for future self-financing. The purpose of the DGFP
        reorganization was to prepare the forest administration for its future role and division into an
        autonomous Forest Corporation (FC) and a remaining Forestry and Pasture Department (FD)
        within MAF. Support provided under the project included office, transportation and
        communication equipment for DGFP headquarters and related incremental operating expenditure.

        (b)      Support for Training, Education and Research in Forestry and Pastures ($0.7 million),
        included: (i) In service training for forestry and pasture staff at senior and mid levels provided
        through project-financed service contracts mainly with the forestry faculty at the Agricultural
        University of Tirana ($0.05 million), and other local and foreign training ($0.18 million); (ii)
        education for forestry technicians supported by funding courses, equipment and training of trainers
        at the Forest Technician School at Shkoder ($0.07 million); and (iii) strengthening forestry and
        pastures research capacity through upgrading facilities and funding foreign training of staff of the
        Forest and Pasture Institute ($0.4 million).

        (c)      Project Management ($0.6 million) entailed establishing a temporary Project
        Management Unit (PMU) responsible for planning, coordinating, managing, funding and
        monitoring all project activities in accordance with work programs and budgets approved by the
        Project Steering Committee.

        (d)      Project Environmental Management ($0.2 million) was to establish a Project
        Environmental Management Unit (PEMU) within the Agricultural Program Office of MAF to
        ensure that project implementation would be environmentally sound, and to promote conservation
        of nature in forests. The head of the PEMU would be a member of the Project Steering Committee
        and supported by local and international consultants, training, transport equipment and operating
        funds. In addition, technical assistance and training would be provided to the Committee for
        Environmental Protection (CEP) to strengthen its capacity to prepare guidelines for environmental
        monitoring and environmental impact assessments of the sector.

        (e)      Technical Assistance ($2.95 million) was to be provided from: (i) the Government of
        Switzerland ($0.45 million), to support communal forest, pasture and protected areas management


                                                       - 3 -

         during the first three years of project implementation, implemented by the Project Implementation
         Unit (PIU), and (ii) the Government of Italy under the FAO-Government Cooperation Project ($2.5
         million) to support project management, policy reforms and institutional development, and provide
         expert advice and training under all components except communal forest and protected area
         management.

2.       Improved Forest Management ($8.1 million base cost). Activities under this component were
aimed at curbing degradation of Albanian forests that were to remain under the management authority of
DGFP and the envisaged Forest Corporation (i.e., approximately 800,000 ha, or 70% of total forest cover
in Albania, including all high forest and a significant share of coppice and shrub lands). Project activities
were to include:

         (a)      Strengthening the capacity of field services to manage and protect forests at the field
         level ($3.3 million) by providing improved offices, transportation and communications equipment,
         and funding of related incremental operating costs for 194 sectors, 32 districts and 12 new
         "technical units" to be established at the Prefecture level. This activity was also to include
         implementation of the action plan to reduce illegal forest harvesting.

         (b)      Resuming forest management planning ($1.3 million) by developing and implementing
         new, improved forest management plans for 57 management units, or 160,000 ha of high forest,
         and updating the simplified management plans for coppice and shrub forests. Both types of forest
         management plans were to be based on new guidelines that would take account of non-wood
         economic aspects, including the forest's ecological and social functions, and were to adopt a
         participatory approach.

         (c)      Reforestation of sensitive areas ($0.9 million) by supporting artificial complementary
         regeneration (or reforestation by plantation or direct seeding) in areas of high forests that: (i) have
         been harvested and where the natural regeneration has partially or totally failed, and (ii) are located
         on highly erosive soils (i.e. clay soils on steep slopes). DGFP was to carry out a study of the high
         forest areas with failed regeneration to identify those locations where reforestation was expected to
         generate sufficient environmental benefits to make reforestation with indigenous species
         economically viable. Reforestation activities were to be agreed with IDA during the review of the
         annual project work program and budget, and would be carried out on about 1,000 ha.

         (d)      Pre-commercial thinnings ($2.1 million) on about 29,000 ha of young stands of black
         pine, beech and oak, which is the total area of young stands of these species, 15-20 years of age,
         that needed this silvicultural treatment.

         (e)      Forest protection ($0.5 million) through funding research and monitoring activities inter
         alia on the processionary moth. This activity was to be contracted to the Forest and Pasture
         Research Institute.

3.       Forest Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance ($2.4 million base cost). The project was to
support rehabilitation of about 350 km of existing forest roads in 53 selected forest management units in 16
districts, which would be consistent with the units where new forest management plans would be developed.
Rehabilitation works would include levelling the bearing course, rehabilitating the gravel bed, digging
roadside ditches and reconstructing culverts and other minor structures where necessary. Project resources
would fund the design, implementation of rehabilitation works and maintenance of rehabilitated roads.



                                                       - 4 -

4.       Management of Communal Forest and Pasture Areas ($2.3 million base cost). The project was
to support participative management of forests and pastures in 30 communes involving:

         (a)      Implementation of a pilot project in each of three communes in Central Albania ($0.08
         million), with funding provided under a Project Preparation Facility.

         (b)      Development of improved management and investment plans ($0.2 million) for areas of
         forests and pastures that would be transferred to communes, using a participatory approach.

         (c)      Funding of selected communal investment projects in restoration of degraded areas
         and pasture improvement ($2.0 million), planting of fodder and fuel wood trees, and fencing for
         protection and rehabilitation of highly degraded coppice and shrub forests.

         (d)      Establishment of a data base on communally managed forests and pastures (0.05
         million), and preparation of studies on the production and marketing of potential for non-timber
         forest products.

5.       Protected Areas Management ($0.4 million base cost). This component would be implemented
as a pilot operation over a three-year period and would involve:

         (a)      Strengthening of protected areas management services in five priority districts ($0.25
         million) by funding transport and communications equipment, staff training, and the preparation of
         management plans for biodiversity protection.

         (b)      Preparation and implementation of a protected areas pilot project for the Lura
         National Park ($0.15 million).

3.4 Revised Components:
Based on an evaluation of the project's progress and constraints undertaken at midterm in collaboration
with DGFP, PMU, PEMU and FPRI (Forest and Pasture Research Institute), project components were
revised to better reflect the real possibilities for what could be achieved within the remaining time-frame.
Initial project design envisaged a combination of national level policy and institutional restructuring,
investments in forest roads, and development of community based resource management. The revision
resulted in a shift of project resources, primarily by reducing investments in road rehabilitation, due to the
increased risk of illegal harvesting associated with the nationwide breakdown of governance in 1997, and
by investing more in forest works (mainly thinning operations) and especially in community forest
management. Key recommendations at midterm for refocusing the project were:

         (a)      With respect to the Institutional Development component, the project would pilot
         separation of commercial and regulatory activities of the DGFP in one pilot region, rather than
         implementing reforms at a national level. This entailed having AFP support the new regional
         administration by financing the cost of: (i) an interim manager and operational expenses for field
         staff over a period of six months; (ii) transport; and (iii) office rehabilitation, including furnishings,
         PCs and other equipment, communications, and training.

         (b)      With respect to the Improved State Forest Management and Management of
         Communal Forests and Pastures components, project activities would:




                                                        - 5 -

                  (i)      Integrate forest works (thinning and road rehabilitation) within the implementation
                  of new forest management plans, and would focus on implementing up to five updated
                  plans, selecting a site within the pilot region in the first instance;

                  (ii)     Establish an inter-ministerial task force to guide resolution of legal and
                  cross-sectoral barriers to improved forest management, especially with respect to
                  controlling illegal logging, and also assisting in resolving land tenure and land use
                  permitting conflicts;

                  (iii)    Expand project support for commune level forest planning and management;

                  (iv)     Increase the scope of FAO technical assistance to include communal forestry and
                  expand the role of national consultants; and

                  (v)      Scale back project support for rehabilitation of forest roads.

          (c)     With respect to the Protected Areas Management component, project activities were to
          be expanded by adding an additional protected area, increasing technical assistance by hiring an
          external specialist, and increasing the budget by $1.2 million. Following the breakdown in civil
          order that erupted across Albania in 1997, widespread illegal logging occurred nationwide but
          some regions, such as Lura National Park, were particularly hard hit by loss of forest cover
          making it impossible to implement the management planning sub-component. Consequently, the
          focus of the management planning subcomponent was switched from Lura to Dajti national park.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory based on: (i) consistency of objectives with the priority for
rehabilitating and establishing sustainable management of natural resources in support of rural
development and poverty alleviation, and (ii) project design, which addressed institutional constraints and
risks by incorporating flexibility and by fostering ownership at the national, district and commune levels.

While the SAR documented the project and its background well, and the MOP accurately assessed potential
political developments that could contribute to project risks, at the time of project preparation it would not
have been possible to predict the 1997 collapse of the pyramid schemes, their widespread impact on civil
order and on project activities, particularly the increase in illegal logging that was an important factor in
the decision at midterm to scale back original plans to rehabilitate forest roads. Neither could the Kosovo
crisis have been predicted.

The Bank's 1995 Country Assistance Strategy for Albania emphasized poverty alleviation as well as
infrastructure development. The project was important and consistent with country strategy objectives in
that its rationale was to improve incomes derived from management of nationally significant forest and
pasture resources (upon which a large proportion of the rural population depends), and halt ongoing
degradation of the resource base. However, unexpected events in the country, including the breakdown of
civil order and national level governance 1997, created a need to re-orient activities to better achieve the
objectives. Components that required strong central government were reduced, including the forest road
component (because government could not have controlled the illegal logging that would have resulted from
improved access), as well as activities that required strong institutional leadership and capacity (such as the
separation of regulatory/commercial functions and management planning). Emphasis was shifted to the
level of the communes where commitment was very strong. This proved to be unexpectedly successful and,
despite the change in composition of interventions, it allowed for significant accomplishments to take place



                                                        - 6 -

and project objectives to be met.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall achievement of objectives and outputs was satisfactory. Particularly in view of the level of
economic, political and civil instability that prevailed during the early years of project implementation,
progress toward achieving all three goals was surprisingly good. Output targets for objectives one and two
-- restoring State owned forests and pastures, and conservation of natural forest ecosystems, particularly
areas under commune management -- were substantially met or exceeded, although over a longer period of
time than was anticipated at appraisal. Introduction of new style forest management plans and the
consultation process that came with them, together with awareness raising and educational activities
financed by the project, contributed toward objectives one and two. Perhaps the most significant and
unexpected (at appraisal) achievements, however, are associated with communal management of forest and
pasture resources, where the project supported the transfer of usufruct rights to communes and assisted
local communities to protect and manage natural resources in approximately one third of all commune
managed forest and pasture lands in Albania. In many cases, families are already deriving income from the
use of forest and pastures that had been seriously degraded lands prior to project-supported investments.
Additionally, erosion caused by unsustainable land use is being brought under control in areas where
project interventions have taken place. Significantly, there is evidence that the shift to improved land use
practice brought about by the project is likely to be sustainable. Direct short-term poverty alleviation
impacts were substantial in that the project financed approximately 5,000 person years of local villager
employment in order to implement many field interventions, and the budgets of households participating in
project activities increased by an estimated 30% annually. The unexpected level of success led the
Government to approach the Bank with a request for a follow on project that would scale up and expand
coverage of communal forest management throughout the country.

The third project objective -- taking initial steps in the transition of the forestry/pasture sector to a market
economy -- was not fully achieved within the time frame of the project, but important progress has been
made that sets the stage for it being achieved in the near future. Given the delays in building institutional
capacity and consensus associated with the breakdown of governance after 1997, national level reforms,
including moves toward separation of commercial from regulatory functions within the sector, did not
proceed as initially envisaged in the SAR with the creation of a new institution to undertake commercial
activities on behalf of the State. Rather than achieve full separation of regulatory and commercial
functions, as a step toward building the framework for the market economy, the project was able to
introduce a number of other market-based mechanisms, such as wood auctions, and also supported
development of a market oriented forest and pastures sector policy and strategy that provides the vehicle for
furthering the reform agenda. The project supported establishment of the first decentralized regional forest
administration at Elbasan and the introduction of competitive auctions for standing wood and logs.
Significantly, forest planning and management procedures initiated under the project provided a market for
forest works and forest management planning that led to the creation of approximately two hundred new
private sector enterprises. Perhaps the single largest challenge to achieving project objectives was the
government's inability to substantially reduce levels of illegal logging, particularly in state forests that were
not in project supported areas. Illegal logging is linked to broader governance and poverty needs in the
country, and addressing these challenges will require better functioning policy, judicial and customs
systems, as well as provision of improved access to affordable heating services in some areas. However, the
project was able to assist by supporting establishment of an inter-ministerial task force to coordinate efforts
toward controlling illegal logging.




                                                       - 7 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
1.       Institutional Development ($5.5 million SAR, $8.1 million actual, of which $5.6 million project
funds and $2.5 million FAO technical assistance). This component is rated satisfactory in that it
substantially achieved most of its intended outputs. Achievements by subcomponent were as follows:

    (a) Reorganization and strengthening of DGFP ($0.7 million SAR, $1.87 million actual).
   Marginally Satisfactory. As agreed at midterm, the project supported the creation of two new
   directorates within DGFP for: (i) communal forests and pastures and extension services, and (ii)
   protected areas management. Activities of the new directorates were operationalized at the field level
   by assigning and training staff specifically to interact with the communes and other local forest
   stakeholders. The project piloted decentralization of the forest administration more broadly through
   establishing a new regional forest administration incorporating seven forest districts and managing
   approximately 100,000 ha of forest land. The regional forest administration provided a model for
   decentralization that Government now intends to replicate throughout the country. A revenue account
   was established in March 1998 for the collection and reallocation of revenues derived from the sale of
   timber and non-timber forest products (NTFPs), and timber pricing and auctions were introduced in an
   endeavor to capture market prices for timber and NTFPs. While the trade in illegally harvested wood
   suppressed timber prices and undermined attempts to maximize revenues derived from commercial
   management of State forests, returns to the newly established revenue account were about $1.4 million
   in 2003, or approximately one tenth of the DGPF's annual budget.

   (b) Support for training, education and research in forestry and pastures ($0.8 million SAR, $0.85
    million actual). This subcomponent is rated as satisfactory in that most training and educational
    activities supported the building of awareness of the needs and opportunities for institutional reform to
    ensure sustainable and cost effective management of forests and pastures in a free market economy.
    Training was provided for DGFP staff at the national, regional and field levels, and for members of the
    Forest and Pasture Users Associations (FPUAs), and included training in socioeconomic aspects of
    communal forest and pasture management, as well as the policy and market factors influencing soil
    erosion and degradation of natural resources more broadly. Initially, some of the research activities
    were not fully demand driven and well targeted. However, the project was able to work with FPRI to
    assist it to restructure and refocus its research activities to better address the changing needs of the
    sector. This entailed reducing the number of originally envisaged research themes from 13 to 5, with
    an emphasis on undertaking analysis needed to inform priority management decision making in areas
    financed by the project.

    (c) Project Management ($0.7 million SAR, $0.8 million actual). Satisfactory. The PMU was
    initially established to ensure adherence to Bank procurement and financial management procedures
    and manage effective project implementation on behalf of DGFP. However, its relative independence
    led to difficulties in communication and collaboration. This was rectified at mid term when DGFP,
    recognizing the need to build its own internal capacity for project management, began planning for
    transfer and mainstreaming of skills and responsibilities.

    (d) Project Environmental Management ($0.3 million SAR, $0.27 million actual). Satisfactory.
    The PEMU was established and operationalized under the project, within the Agricultural Project's
    office and housed within DGFP. Its operations were slow to start due to initial weak ownership of the
    environmental assessment agenda within DGFP and the Ministry of Agriculture more generally, and
    disagreement on where the unit should be located. While operations of the PEMU were slow to start,
    excellent progress was achieved by the midterm evaluation. One of the unit's first outputs were
    environmental guidelines for forest road rehabilitation, which were prepared with assistance from FAO.


                                                       - 8 -

    Establishment of the PEMU led to a significant increase in awareness on the part of key stakeholders of
    environmental concerns in the forest and pasture sector, and the use of environmental impact
    assessments as an accepted tool. Since PEMU staff were financed under the project, DGFP needed to
    institutionalize and mainstream environmental safeguards in the sector in order to ensure sustainability
    of the unit's activities following closure of the project.

    (e) Technical Assistance ($2.95 million SAR, $4.3 million actual, of which $1.8 million project funds
    and $2.5 million FAO technical assistance). Satisfactory. Training and analytical activities under
    this subcomponent were carried out by FAO as envisaged in the SAR. Joint supervision missions with
    FAO/CP and the appointment of a long term resident technical adviser on forest policy and institutional
    reform proved to be particularly useful in bolstering and addressing implementing agency weaknesses.
    Outputs of this subcomponent included a study that supported development of a strategic action plan to
    address the issue of illegal logging, and an assessment of the needs and options for institutional reform.
    The impact of the activity could have been further enhanced if the training program had included
    greater participation of field staff, thereby further supporting decentralization of authority and
    capacity.

2.      Improved State Forest Management ($9.8 million SAR, $6.8 million actual). This component is
rated satisfactory, in that it substantially achieved most of its intended outputs. Achievements by
subcomponent were as follows:

    (a) Strengthening the capacity of field services to manage and protect State forests at the field
    level ($3.8 million SAR, $3.03 million actual) - Satisfactory. This subcomponent provided timely and
    much needed investments that greatly enhanced DGFP's ability to undertake field operations. Prior to
    the project, basic office and field equipment and operational equipment was lacking. The project
    provided office and field equipment, including furniture, computers, photocopiers, fax machines, radio
    communications, vehicles, motorcycles, and forest survey equipment, in 36 districts, and also the
    establishment of 8 new prefecture level "technical units" that would build capacity for regional level
    forest administration following the eventual formal establishment of new regional directorates for forest
    and pasture management in all prefectures across the country. Also under this subcomponent the
    project financed equipment, logistic and operational planning, and a public awareness program to
    support implementation of plans to control illegal logging and also limit the incidence and impacts of
    forest fires.

    (b) Resuming forest management planning ($2.0 million SAR, $1.6 million actual). Satisfactory.
    This subcomponent supported the development of improved forest management plans for 43 high forest
    management units (approximately 128,000 ha), all prepared by a large number of private sector
    companies that were established in order to respond to the market incentives created by project support
    for forest management planning. The guidelines and software program developed under the project
    established a standard and model for all forest management planning throughout Albania. While an
    inventory was not included in the initial project design, it became clear that this was a critical input to
    the planning process and was selected for inclusion in the project during the reassessment of priority
    needs. Consequently, a national inventory of forests and pasture resources, as well as analysis of the
    status and trends in resource use across the country, was financed under this subcomponent. The
    inventory provides government with an invaluable tool to assist in planning for sustainable
    management of forests and pastures and development of supporting policy. The project also
    established a geographical information system (GIS) within the PMU to support the forest management
    planning process. Agreement on how best to institutionalize, update and maintain the national



                                                       - 9 -

    inventory and the GIS unit following completion of the project was in process at the time of the ICR
    mission.

    (c) Reforestation of sensitive areas ($0.9 million SAR, $0.0 million actual). Not rated. Targets
    initially set under this sub component for investing in culturing and planting tree seedlings in degraded
    areas that were not under commune management (and, hence, continued to be at risk from grazing)
    were not pursued. Instead, agreement was reached between government and the Bank that it would be
    more effective to focus on rehabilitation of degraded lands using the community based approaches
    being very successfully implemented under component 4 (management of communal forest and pasture
    areas). Additionally, where the causes of degradation were brought under control by communal forest
    and pasture management, the success of natural regeneration of forests generally precluded the need for
    planting that had been anticipated at appraisal. Consequently, in year 2000, it was agreed that the
    objectives of this component would be best achieved through scaling up activities under component 4,
    and that funds initially allocated under this component would be used to contribute toward preparation
    of the national inventory of forests and pastures so as to support better targeting of future actions to
    manage or reforest sensitive areas, and also make more informed decisions regarding management of
    the sector as a whole.

    (d) Pre-commercial thinnings ($2.5 million SAR, $1.55 million actual). Satisfactory. There were
    initial delays in proceeding with thinning operations early in project implementation due to slow
    agreement on procurement and supervision arrangements for contractors. This drew attention to the
    need for provision of technical standards and guidelines for pre-commercial thinning, as well as
    procurement supervision of contractors. Such standards and guidelines were subsequently prepared
    under the project. Significantly, the intensity of thinning prescribed in the SAR was in line with local
    practice in managed forests in Albania (i.e., 15-25% of trees to be removed per unit area). By the time
    the project became effective, however, thinning had been neglected in Albania for so long that, in line
    with modern silvicultural practice, there was a need to remove a much larger percentage of the trees
    than originally envisaged. Supervision correctly identified the need to reevaluate thinning technical
    requirements and also undertake trials and cost benefit analysis of different intensities of thinning for
    the three major forest species (beech, oak and black pine) prior to proceeding with large scale thinning
    operations. Trials initiated in collaboration with FAO indicated the need to remove 35-40% of trees
    per unit area, and thinning operations proceeded in accordance with this guidance from the year 2000.

    (e) Forest protection ($0.8 million, SAR, $0.58 million actual). Satisfactory. During preparation
    the nun moth was identified as a localized forest pest problem. By start of implementation, it became
    apparent that fire was becoming a more significant threat to forest resources. Consequently, agreement
    was reached whereby activities financed under this subcomponent were split, with half of the resources
    being used for designing and implementing a program to monitor the status and impacts of the nun
    moth under the FPRI applied studies program, and half to support implementing the national strategy
    to control forest fires.

3.       Forest Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance ($2.9 million SAR, $0.19 million actual).
Unsatisfactory. As a result of the unexpected national crisis in 1997, activities planned under this
component were significantly underachieved. However, the underachievement of specific project targets
was the result of necessary and appropriate decisions made during implementation in response to changing
circumstances and new opportunities to better achieve project objectives. Activities planned under this
component at appraisal (i.e., rehabilitation of 350 km of existing roads) were greatly and deliberately
reduced to only 30 km, when it became apparent that the threat of illegal logging had been increased by the
breakdown of governance and civil order during the early years of project implementation. Since the


                                                     - 10 -

proposed road rehabilitations were not in areas where the project would be capable of ensuring sound forest
management practice, improved road access would have been likely to allow for increased illegal and
unsustainable logging. Consequently, planned road rehabilitation was scaled down, and the project: (i)
supported analytical work on the extent, impact and trends in forest crime, as well as establishment of an
inter-sectoral task force and development of a strategy to reduce illegal logging, and (ii) shifted resources to
project activities implemented at the commune level that were proving more successful in establishing
sustainable management of forest and pasture resources.

4.      Management of Communal Forest and Pasture Areas ($2.8 million SAR, $5.4 million actual).
Highly Satisfactory. Achievements by subcomponent were as follows:

    (a) Implementation of a pilot project in each of three communes in Central Albania ($0.09 million
    SAR, $0.3 million actual), with funding provided under a Project Preparation Facility. Highly
    Satisfactory. Activities envisaged at appraisal were completed according to plan and an evaluation
    conducted in early 1997 found a high degree of community participation and support for project
    activities in all three communes, whereby, in general, pilot phase interventions had been well protected
    from grazing by local residents, planted seedlings demonstrated a high rate of survival, and appropriate
    administrative mechanisms had been established for selecting project interventions and for sharing
    investment benefits.

    (b) Development of improved management and investment plans ($0.38 million SAR, $1.38 million
    actual) for areas of State forests and pastures that would be transferred to communes, using a
    participatory approach. Highly Satisfactory. The target of developing improved management plans
    for forests and pastures managed by 30 communes that was envisaged at appraisal was greatly
    exceeded, and the project succeeded in facilitating development of 126 commune level management
    plans, including 17 whose preparation was financed by USAID. The associated strategy of
    transferring usufruct rights to natural resources proved to be extremely effective in establishing
    community ownership of the planning process and systems for sustainable resource use.

    (c) Funding of selected communal investment projects in restoration of degraded areas and
    pasture improvement ($2.38 million SAR, $3.72 million actual). Highly Satisfactory. Under this
    subcomponent, the project financed management interventions including the planting of fodder and fuel
    wood trees, and fencing for protection and rehabilitation of highly degraded coppice and shrub forests.
    Implementation of the increased number of commune forest and pasture management plans was
    assisted with collaborative support from IFAD, WFP, and SNV. Given the degree of local ownership
    that had been built during the management planning process, as well as the incentives associated with
    the transfer of usufruct rights, project investments to support implementation of forest and pasture
    management plans were welcomed, protected, and augmented by the participating communes.
    Approximately 330,000 ha of forest land, equivalent to about a third of the forest area in the country,
    has been transferred for commune management. As a consequence, the quality and productivity of
    forest and pasture land managed under the new plans by the newly created resource user associations
    improved to such an extent that commune families are already deriving income from forest and
    pastures (including fuel wood, fodder, NTFPs and some grazing, etc.) that had been seriously degraded
    bush prior to project supported investments. Additionally, erosion caused by unsustainable land use is
    being brought under control. Significantly, there is evidence that some commune and family
    investments in resource management (e.g., active protection of areas from grazing, fencing, tree
    planting. erosion control intervention, etc) are continuing even after project support has ceased,
    indicating that the shift to improved land use practice brought about by the project is likely to be



                                                     - 11 -

   sustainable. This unexpected level of success led to identification of the need for DGFP to further
   develop the skills and capacity needed to provide communes with silvicultural and other technical
   guidance that will be necessary as their forests mature, and to approach the World Bank with a request
   for a follow on project that would scale up and expand the coverage of communal forest and pasture
   management.

   (d) Establishment of a data base on communally managed forests and pastures ($0.05 million
   SAR, $0.03 million actual). Satisfactory. Activities envisaged under this component were undertaken
   by the PMU, and included preparation of studies on the production and marketing potential for
   non-timber forest products, as well as establishment and update of a GIS database of State and
   commune forest and pasture management plans.

5.     Protected Areas Management ($0.7 million SAR, $0.99 million actual). Marginally
Satisfactory. Achievements by subcomponent were as follows:

   (a) Strengthening of protected area management services in five priority districts ($0.4 million
   SAR, $0.88 million actual) by funding transport and communications equipment, staff training, and the
   preparation of management plans for biodiversity protection. Marginally satisfactory. The project
   was able to make the investments that were planned at appraisal, including provision of offices at eight
   priority protected areas, each supplied with furnishings, radio communication equipment, public
   awareness communications materials, and some training for field staff. Following the increase of
   threat to state forests and damage to park infrastructure that took place in 1997, additional resources
   were allocated to this component and the number of buildings constructed was increased from five to
   nine, including a visitor center for Dajti National Park. Under implementation, a need was identified
   for increased effort to build awareness on the part of all key stakeholders, including government, of the
   needs and opportunities for biodiversity conservation and the role of protected areas in achieving this
   objective. Consequently, the project financed development of a national public awareness strategy as
   well as a range of activities in support of its implementation. Additionally, the project financed studies
   intended to help better prioritize the conservation effort nationwide, including an assessment of the
   status of protected areas, and development of a map of the distribution of natural habitats throughout
   Albania. The project also made some progress toward mainstreaming conservation in the forest sector
   by financing biodiversity assessments for inclusion in 40 management plans for state forests, thereby
   providing guidance on how biodiversity could be conserved in approximately one quarter of all high
   forests in the country. Significantly, some activities supporting communal management of natural
   resources that were financed under component 4 (e.g., at lake Prespa National Park), worked toward
   building local support and participation in protected area management. However, despite the
   investments made, it has not been possible to establish effective conservation management of target
   protected areas and, in some cases, illegal logging and other forms of unsustainable resource use has
   continued unabated. It is difficult to assess the actual impact of project investments in terms of
   improved management of the target protected areas, and biodiversity conservation more broadly.
   Nevertheless, all investments were made as planned and all SAR targets were met. However, in order
   to achieve long-term conservation management, the further support that is envisaged under a follow-on
   project, will be required.

   (b) Preparation and implementation of a protected areas pilot project for the Lura National Park
   ($0.3 million SAR, $0.11 million actual). Unsatisfactory. Forest cover of the Lura National Park was
   almost completely destroyed by illegal logging in the early years of project implementation, with most
   destruction taking place during and following the 1997 breakdown of law and order. Lack of



                                                     - 12 -

    governance and local ownership of the concept and potential benefits of maintaining the parks' forests,
    together with the logistic complexity of conserving the site were important contributing factors. The
    park was administered under Dibra district forest service, but it was more easily accessible to two other
    forest districts, as well as more than a dozen resource-poor villages that had little access to legal and
    sustainable forms of income. Following the destruction of Lura, the project pilot site was switched to
    Dajti National Park, on the outskirts of Tirana. Unfortunately, even though a project extension was
    granted in order to allow for completion of the Dajti management plan, progress has been slow, partly
    due to delays in procurement, and partly to lack of awareness, on the part of key decision makers, of
    the needs and actions that should be taken in order to sustainably manage a park for biodiversity
    conservation objectives together with recreational and entrepreneurial objectives. For example,
    construction of a cable car that would bring large numbers of visitors into the center of the park was
    initiated with limited attention to environmental impact procedures, or incorporation of visitor
    management in conservation or financial planning aspects of the national park management plan. Also,
    effective arrangements for managing the park, such as establishment of a management board, had not
    been established by the time of project closure. While the decision made under supervision to switch
    the focus of this component from Lura to Dajti was appropriate, and even though substantive progress
    has been made toward developing sound recommendations for management of the Dajti park, the
    objective of this subcomponent had not been substantively achieved by the time of project closure.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Due to the shift in emphasis of project interventions that took place during implementation (i.e., less
emphasis on forest road rehabilitation and more support for establishing community management of forest
and pasture resources, comparison of SAR and ICR economic analysis is not appropriate. Economic
reevaluation analysis undertaken for this ICR, includes assessment of benefits that were previously not
anticipated or incorporated in the economic analysis undertaken at appraisal. Economic Analysis has been
undertaken for the project's four major components and is based on a comparison of incremental benefits
realized by the project, versus the without project scenario. The Economic Rate of Return for the whole
project amounts to 22%. For the individual components, the calculated benefits are as follows:

1.       Component 1: Institutional Development. Benefits that have been or will be realized through
reduction of illegal logging, increased timber sales, reduced costs of harvesting and improved efficiency of
transport and primary processing. The Economic Rate of Return for this component is calculated at 25%.

2.       Component 2: Improved state forest management. Major benefits realized by the project include
reduced costs for pre-commercial thinning operations and benefits realized through commercial thinning
operations. The Economic Rate of Return for this component is calculated at 16%.

3.       Component 3: Rehabilitation of forests roads. Benefits of this scaled down activity are mostly
derived from improved access to forests for harvests, auctions and other management interventions and
hence reduced costs and environmental impacts. From the originally envisaged road rehabilitation, only
22.5 km of rehabilitated roads remained. The Economic Rate of Return for this small amount of
rehabilitated roads has been re-calculated at 43%.

4.       Component 4: Communal Management. Benefits are realized through generation of fodder, fuel
wood and timber as well as non-timber revenues (medicinal plants, herbs, chestnuts etc) for those local
communities where state forests and pastures have been transferred to commune management. The
Economic Rate of Return for this component has been calculated at 32%.

The non-quantified downstream benefits derived from erosion control are significant. During the transition
period (1990-2000) removal of forest cover resulted in massive increases in erosion, resulting in
sedimentation of damns and major hydroelectric reservoirs, as well as destruction of infrastructure



                                                     - 13 -

particularly rural roads. An estimated 50% of Albania's irrigation system is impacted by erosion resulting
from degradation of forest cover in upper watersheds. Through stabilizing erosion by re-establishing
vegetation in up to one half of forest areas, the project contributed significantly toward controlling the
costly impacts of land degradation.

Poverty alleviation benefits are also significant. A multi agency study on "the Effects of the Albania
Forestry Project on Poverty Reduction" was carried out in 2001-2002. The study estimates that the budget
of households participating in Forestry Project's activities increased about 30% per year.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
While the project's overall institutional development impact at the national level has been modest, the
project achieved some significant successes in equipping DGFP to catalyze establishment of communal
management of forests and pastures at the local level. Local institutional impact was significantly positive.
This included the creation of 126 commune level forest and pasture user associations, written agreements
between each user association and the local district forest administration regarding how degraded forests
were to be rehabilitated and managed, and creation of four of the first regional level forest and pasture user
associations, and a national umbrella association. Working relations between local communities and forest
administrations have greatly improved. The project has also laid the groundwork for more substantive
institutional reforms that are likely to lead to improved ability to make effective use of DGFP's human and
financial resources across the sector. While implementation of some of the rather ambitious national level
institutional development activities envisaged under the project may have been hampered by design
complexity that went beyond the capacity of the implementing agency to address, MAF is now well
positioned to move forward and build on the analytical work and experience gained under the AFP. Given
the level of capacity within MAF at appraisal, the project's emphasis on technical assistance and more
general staff training with the assistance of FAO may have been appropriate at the start of project
implementation. However, institutional impact and the reform agenda could have been further advanced at
the national level if the general approach to capacity building had been augmented by a midterm adjustment
with greater emphasis on developing and implementing more specific agreed action plans with reference to
concrete benchmarks, as was the case with some of the more successful field level activities supported
under the project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Negative Factors:

(i)      Civil unrest: The collapse of the pyramid scheme in March 1997 led to civil unrest, rioting and a
general state of anarchy that led to a significant though unquantified increase in illegal cutting of forests
and logging, including the removal of high forests from Lura National Park; damage to most District Forest
and Pasture Administration buildings by squatters in all eight districts where the project had financed
construction; loss or damage to furniture and equipment in many Districts, and a halt of most project
activities for much of the remainder of the calendar year. The Kosovo crisis in 1999 had less of an impact
on project activities though it led to an increase in pressure on forest resources for fuel wood in some areas.



(ii)     Governance: The overall state of governance and the rule of law constituted a dynamic cultural
setting that hampered progress in aspects of project implementation that relied on adoption of new


                                                      - 14 -

operational procedures and transparency. Governance, already weak at the time of project preparation,
deteriorated significantly following the 1997 crisis, impeding the effective implementation of many project
activities.

(iii)    Illegal timber marketing: The scale and pervasiveness of illegal logging and the associated trade
in timber, closely linked to broader governance issues, which proved impossible for government to bring
under control within the life of the project, eroded the price of wood and wood products and undermined
attempts to establish competitive auction of wood, and moves toward improved commercial management of
production forests.

Positive Factors:

(i)      Involvement of the Bank: The Bank played a leading role in responding to the urgent needs of the
sector by preparing and financing the project, and this provided a framework for additional technical and
financial support of the international donor community.

(ii)     Cofinancing, parallel financing and coordinated support of the donor community: Other
bilateral, multilateral and NGO agencies that contributed significantly to the success and expansion of
project activities included: (i) the Italian Development Corporation, (ii) the Swiss Development
Association, (iii) the Netherlands Development Organization SNV, (iv) the USAID financed Albanian
Private Forestry Development Program, and the Albanian Watershed Assessment Project, (v) FAO, (vi) the
World Food Program, (vii) the IFAD financed Mountain Areas Development Agency, (viii) CARE Canada,
(ix) the Regional Environmental Center, (x) the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), and
(xi) CORD/ZOA, a British Dutch organization.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Inter-ministerial collaboration: Recognizing that illegal harvesting of state forest assets was a challenge
that could not be addressed by MAF alone, under an order of the Prime Minister of November 2000
Government established an inter-ministerial task force for the protection of the forest estate. The task force
is chaired by the Minister of Forestry and includes the participation of the Ministry of Public Economy and
Privatization, the Ministry of Local Government, the Tourism Development Committee, the Ministry of
Environment, DGFP, the Directorate for State Police within the Ministry of Public Order, the Directorates
of Taxes and of General Customs within the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Justice. Illegal
logging has not yet been brought under control, but government is establishing the mechanisms and
building the capacity to address the challenge more effectively. There is evidence of some decline in illegal
logging in project areas.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Negative Factors:

(i)      Project Management:

    l Initial lack of clarity regarding the roles and responsibilities within the implementing agency
         vis-a-vis the PMU occasionally led to significant and unnecessary delays in procurement (e.g.
         resulting from delays in preparing technical specifications and provision of no-objections), and in
         approvals to proceed with a range of project initiatives (e.g., endorsement of the list of communes
         that would receive support under the communal forest management component, and subsequent
         approval of communal forest management plans). During the latter part of project implementation,
         clarity of roles was improved and delays were reduced. Sustainability of some of the functions



                                                      - 15 -

        undertaken by the PMU (e.g. the national forest inventory, the GIS facility used to support forest
        management planning, and environmental management functions) would have been better served if
        they had been mainstreamed and institutionalized earlier on in project implementation.

    l Frequent changes in procurement staff precluded development of adequate capacity and led to
        unsatisfactory performance and associated delays.

(ii)    Protected Area Management: While all investments envisaged in the SAR were either completed
or exceeded, in order to benefit from these expenditures, the implementing agency could, perhaps, have
done more to engage local stakeholders in the development and implementation of effective conservation
management plans for the target protected areas and their surrounding areas.

Positive Factors:

(i)     Management of Communal Forest and Pasture Areas: MAF's overall support for the concept of
giving communes the rights to manage commune forest and pasture resources, together with the communes'
willingness to take responsibility for managing the transferred lands sustainably, allowed for the
unexpectedly successful outcome of this important initiative. MAF/DGFP are now working closely with
the communes and their Forest and Pasture Users Associations to build the skills and capacity necessary to
ensure continued sustainable management of forest and pasture resources that have been transferred, and
expand the coverage of the concept to include all commune forest and pasture lands in the country.

(ii)    Project Management: PMU management and staff motivation, experience and skills contributed
significantly toward project successes.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost as compared with the SAR estimates of $21.6 million are currently estimated at $21.5
million. Of the IDA credit of $8 M (37% of total costs), $0.8 M was for technical assistance. IDA funds
were used to finance: (i) the PPF expenditures for equipment, technical assistance and training; (ii) most of
the forest roads component and the protected areas management component; (iii) part of the institutional
strengthening component, the state forest management component, and the communal forest and pasture
management component; and (iv) project recurrent costs (on a declining basis). Donor cofinancing was as
follows.

    (a) An Italian Government untied soft loan of $8.5 million equivalent to cofinance the institutional
    strengthening component, the state forest management component, and the communal forest and
    pasture management component.

    (b) An Italian Government Grant of $2.5 million equivalent, administered by FAO, to finance technical
    assistance by FAO under the institutional strengthening component.

    (c) A Swiss Government Grant of $0.45 million equivalent for additional technical assistance under
    the institutional strengthening component.

    (d) A Japanese Grant of $260,000 equivalent for preparation of the project.

    (e) The Government of Albania contributed local counterpart financing of about $2.1 million
    equivalent (10% of total costs) to cover the duties and taxes paid under the project and the agreed local
    share of recurrent cost financing.



                                                    - 16 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Maintenance of achievements generated by the project in relation to its objectives is Likely.

l With respect to communal management of resources, the social impact, participation, and incentives
    for stakeholders to maintain project benefits are particularly apparent with respect to communal forest
    and pasture management, where rights to land use have been transferred to communes that agreed to
    implement sustainable resource management plans, and communes have each established their own
    resource users associations. Government has indicated its intention to maintain and expand the
    coverage of this initiative to include all forest and pasture owning communes throughout the country.

l With respect to institutional development, equipment, training and operational planning provided to
    national, district and the new regional forest administrations has increased government capacity to
    manage state forests and protected areas, and also support expansion and oversight of resource
    management by communes.

l With respect to the policy environment, development of a national strategy, policy and the legal
    framework for forest and pasture management is well advanced, and the Bank is currently responding
    to a government request for assistance in developing action plans to support implementation of the
    strategy and law. In addition, a strategy for management of forest fires has already been adopted by
    Parliament and is expected to be implemented throughout the country.

Government strategy for taking over institutional responsibility for several functions that were managed
directly by the PMU would have been more effective had they been implemented at an earlier stage. These
include: (a) updating and managing the national forest and pasture inventory and a GIS capacity developed
to support preparation and update of forest management plans; and (b) plans for maintaining or
mainstreaming the activities of the Project's Environmental Management Unit. Recognizing the importance
of these functions, government has now assigned responsibility for their operation within MAF.

The Bank is currently responding to the government's request to prepare a follow-on project that would
scale up and build on successful elements of the current project, with particular emphasis on expanding
communal forest and pasture management. The follow-on project would also build on lessons learned
under the Forestry Project to improve the effectiveness of protected area management, and would support
implementation of the government's strategy for reform and management of the sector.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition arrangements include the adoption and mainstreaming of communal forestry in the context of
governments broader program of decentralization, the introduction of improved forest management
planning, and the creation and use of the first national inventory of forest and pasture resources. The
decentralization of the forest administration, as well as the development of new skills needed to support
improved State and communal forest management, that has been piloted under the project is now being
expanded throughout the country. Notwithstanding the substantial success of communal forest and pasture
management initiatives under the project, in order to effectively reduce poverty and also ensure
maintenance and optimal management of the public good asset of natural resources, as is common practice
in many European countries, the Government will need to continue to target development support for poor
rural mountainous areas. As currently envisaged, the proposed follow on project would assist the
Government to continue to strengthen the capacity of resource users associations at the commune, regional



                                                       - 17 -

and national levels, specifically targeting the poorest communities and most vulnerable landscapes, thereby
consolidating transition arrangements and scaling up impacts.



7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank was able to respond to the need for project identification effectively by fielding a task team that
included appropriate leadership and expertise. While the inability to access GEF resources to augment
project initiatives during implementation may have hampered efforts to establish effective protected area
management, on the whole the Bank team correctly identified the priority sector challenges and activities
needed to address them at the time of project preparation. Quality at entry is rated satisfactory and is
consistent with the 1995 Country Assistance Strategy.

7.2 Supervision:
In the ten years between identification and completion, the project had three different task team leaders.
Changes in leadership did not cause significant disruption to supervision, however, since there was
continuity of leadership throughout the critical period from identification through until after project launch.
The second team leader was in place through to the midterm review, and the third from midterm until
completion. Each successive team leader participated in supervision missions with his predecessor prior to
taking over responsibility. Supervision missions included an appropriate mix of expertise as well as local
staff who continuously monitored project activities. One of the most positive aspects of supervision was
the Bank's flexibility in responding to changing circumstances by adjusting the emphasis and mix of project
activities. The frequency of supervision was also increased during the period of disruption immediately
following the 1997 crisis.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall performance of the Bank is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower worked closely and constructively with the Bank team to identify and prepare the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was satisfactory. Significant factors affecting implementation
performance, such as the extent of illegal logging, were the result of a systemic breakdown in governance
associated with the crisis of 1997 and largely beyond the immediate ability of government to control.
However, Government support for community based management of forest and pasture resources was a
strategic choice that enabled control of degradation to be established in large areas of the country.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Notwithstanding the considerable achievements of the project, given the issues highlighted in section 5.3,
implementing agency performance is assessed as marginally satisfactory, with field implementation
generally proceeding more effectively than some of the national level initiatives. While some delays were
experienced in the first years of implementation, operation of the PMU allowed for progress under most
components, and for progressively greater involvement of DGFP staff following the midterm.
Implementing agency capacity has increased significantly since appraisal, partly as a result of project
investments and training.



                                                     - 18 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1.      Overall approach:

        (a)      Bottom up approaches were more successful that top down: In general, national level
        project activities that were more top-down in design and execution faired less well in terms of
        achieving targets identified in the SAR than did project initiatives that were more bottom-up in
        terms of design and implementation. The reasons for this appear to be twofold:

       l First, ownership - bottom up components, such as communal forestry, were prepared over a
            longer period of time (during project implementation) through a process that included extensive
            consultation and participation of the stakeholders who would, subsequently, be responsible for
            implementation.

       l Second, incentives  success in rehabilitating and establishing sustainable management of
            commune forests and pastures was closely associated with assigning rights to use resources to
            local community based organizations, thereby emphasizing the desirability for project design to
            assess and address the interests of key stakeholders in a manner that is strategically linked to
            the overall development objective.

        (b)      Cross-sectoral challenges require inter-sectoral responses: Acting alone, MAF proved
        unable to substantively control illegal logging, except in selected areas where they were able to
        focus concerted effort. The inter-ministerial task force on illegal logging brings together a range of
        concerned national level stakeholders who will need to work in concert to effectively address this
        significant threat to Albania's forest estate and natural resource base. Establishment of the
        national level inter-sectoral task force had a knock on effect in that it led to the creation of
        prefecture and district level inter-sectoral task forces and collaboration to address illegal logging in
        the field.

2.      Technical assistance for institutional reform:

        (a)      Greater impacts could be derived by supporting achievement of bench-marked targets
        within an agreed development program: Where there is a need to build broad institutional
        awareness, as well as the capacity needed to take on new roles and responsibilities, it may be
        appropriate to undertake a broad range of training and awareness programs for large numbers of
        staff in a variety of key areas, and long term resident advisers may also have a role to play.
        However, greater progress with institutional development and reform may be achieved by focusing
        technical assistance to support selected and bench-marked targets within an overall agreed
        development program. Project design placed greater emphasis on the former approach. The time
        may now be right to move toward developing more clearly defined training and reform programs,
        including milestones, targets and due dates.

        (b)      Where institutional capacity is weak, supervision can be effectively augmented through
        provision of a resident adviser: In a collaborative partnership between FAO and the Albanian
        Forestry Project, FAO assigned an international adviser to be hosted by the implementing agency
        for a period of three years. This intervention provided continuity of technical support and sharing



                                                      - 19 -

    of experience of forestry sector reform from across the region. However, opinions regarding the
    benefits of assigning a long-term resident adviser fall into two schools of thought, either: (a)
    experience under the Albanian forestry project could be considered a model for how FAO and the
    Bank can work together to effectively share the burden of supervision and also provide for
    continuity of high quality support for the client, versus (b) the presence of a resident adviser may
    undermine and delay development of capacity within the client institution. These two perspectives
    should be considered and balanced when assessing the desirability of assigning a resident adviser.
    The appointment of a long-term resident advisor is probably no longer an appropriate option for
    DGFP.

    (c)      Involving local governments and stakeholders in training and awareness programs is
    critical for successful decentralization: Where decentralization of authority is an important
    developmental strategy, the participation of local level government and other stakeholders in
    training and awareness programs is essential and greatly supports achievement of project
    objectives.

3.  Communal Forestry -- lessons for the future expansion of this activity:

    (a)      There is significant value in creating a repeatable methodology for working with
    communities: Development of an effective but standard process for working with communes to
    prepare, adopt and implement natural resource management plans made it possible for other donor
    agencies to contribute toward scaling up this successful activity with parallel funding and technical
    support.

    (b)      Small but significant steps toward transfer of land ownership provided a strong
    incentive for local participation, and helped build awareness and capacity for land
    management: Assignment of usufruct rights to resources provided an adequate incentive to
    communes to rehabilitate degraded lands and adopt sustainable land use practices. It also provides
    an opportunity for Government to build local community management capacity and awareness of
    the benefits and obligations of land management, prior to transfer of full land rights.

4.  Protected Areas:

    (a)      It is important to build awareness of the needs and opportunities for conservation:
    The need for greater emphasis on building awareness and support for protected area and
    conservation management within key government agencies and among the general public was
    recognized and partly addressed during implementation. The need for building awareness and
    support should be assessed during preparation, and communications programs that are strategically
    targeted and designed to support project interventions should be implemented at the earliest
    possible stages of preparation and implementation.

    (b)      Operational plans, based on multi-stakeholder input, are key to ensure effective
    protected area management: The conservation impacts of investments in protected area
    infrastructure could have been more significant if priority investments, including infrastructure,
    were identified and in the context of multi-stakeholder conservation management planning for each
    protected area site. Involving local stakeholders in protected area planning, and ensuring that local
    community needs and interests are addressed in the planning process is essential.




                                                - 20 -

5.      Project Management:

        (a)      It is important to establish clear roles and responsibilities for the PMU and the
        implementing agency: While establishment and operation of a Project Management Unit appears
        to have been instrumental in enabling project implementation, delays could have been avoided by
        clearer definition of: (i) the roles and responsibilities of the PMU vis--vis relevant functionary
        sections within the implementing agency, as well as (ii) time lines and procedures for review and
        clearance of procurement and other authorizations.

        (b)      A strategy for carrying out PMU functions following project closure is necessary to
        ensure sustainability: Some significant project activities were identified late in preparation or
        implementation and were, consequently, undertaken largely by the PMU in the first instance. In
        such cases a strategy for institutionalizing and maintaining functions undertaken by the PMU
        should be developed well before project closure.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The draft ICR was made available to Government on July 15, 2004 and to date no comments have been
received.

(b) Cofinanciers:
The draft ICR was made available to co-financiers and partner agencies including SNV, WFP and SIDA
on July 15, 2004 and to date no comments have been received.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Communal Forestry - Recommendations for the future expansion of this activity:

        (a)      The need to clarify land and resource rights: There is a perception on the part of
        communes that allocation of usufruct rights to use some forest and pasture resources (including
        grazing, fodder, NTFPs but not timber) constitutes a step toward full ownership of land, as well as
        eventual allocation of rights to all natural resources, including timber. Currently, few rehabilitated
        commune-managed forests are older than ten years. The value of these forests will now increase
        significantly in the next few years. In order to ensure continued local community ownership and
        investment in sustainable resource management, the need to clarify ultimate ownership of the land,
        as well as the rights to all its resources including timber, will become progressively more important
        and urgent.

        (b)      Building the capacity of resource users associations: Establishment of forest and
        pasture users associations was a critical and significant project achievement that provided the main
        vehicle for local stakeholders participation in decision making, as well as for discussion and
        agreement on how natural resources will be managed. While there is evidence that some users
        associations are already likely to be self sustaining, in order to ensure and support continued
        sustainable and optimal management of resources by communes there will be a need to further
        develop the institutional and technical capacity of users associations at the local, regional and
        national levels. Targeted support for institution and capacity building could increase the benefits
        derived from sustainably managing and marketing the resource base.



                                                       - 21 -

(c)      Involving women: Women are significantly and substantively involved in the use and
management of forest and pasture resources in Albania and are, consequently, particularly
knowledgeable about the practicality and utility of management interventions. While membership
of commune resource users associations is open to all members of the commune, in the strongly
patriarchal societies that prevail throughout much of rural Albania, there will be a need to develop
and apply specific mechanisms in order to ensure and benefit from the participation of women in
planning and decision making processes.

(d)      Identifying the social unit for natural resource management planning: Traditional
rights to forest and pasture areas are generally assigned to families, and have been for many
centuries. Current commune level forest and pasture plans are agreements between the commune
and the local forest administration. Rights to specific areas of land are, subsequently, allocated
informally to particular families within the commune. As the value of forest resources increases it
will become more important to recognize the family as the traditional unit of land allocation and to
invest in more formal demarcation of land and allocation of responsibilities for its management.

(e)      Including the potentially disenfranchised: Many commune families do not have
traditionally recognized rights to specific areas of forest or pasture land and, instead, only have
rights to communal resource use, e.g. for grazing livestock. In some situations such "non land
owning" commune members do not perceive the need to participate in resource users associations,
and there may be a need to develop and apply specific mechanisms to ensure that non land-owning
families' interests are adequately incorporated in commune resource management plans.

(f)      Selecting communes: As the initiative to establish commune level resource allocation and
management is scaled up, there will be a need to develop and apply an open and transparent system
for selecting which communes should receive external assistance.

(g)      Agreeing on levels of support and planning for financial sustainability: Local
ecological, climatic, economic, social and logistic factors influence the kind of external support
needed to assist a commune to establish sustainable resource management. Subsequent initiatives
to support establishment of commune level resource management should develop and apply an
open and transparent system to define the level, type and duration of support needed to assist a
commune to establish sustainable resource management. Agreements reached should be
incorporated in the context of a commune resource management and financing plan that would
include all stages up to and including financial sustainability (approximately 3-6 years depending
on local conditions).

(h)      Including all relevant government stakeholders: Particularly in view of their
decentralization mandate and role in administration of land transfers and management, the Ministry
of Local Government should participate in the development and implementation of future initiatives
to establish communal management of forest and pasture resources.




                                             - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                 Key Indicators                      Target Date and                      Actual
                                                          Quantity

A. BY OVERALL PROJECT OBJECTIVES

A.1 Restore degraded state forest and pasture areas and promote their sustainable use

Guidelines for new-style forest management          July 1996              Field works guidelines approved in
plans (FMPs) developed                                                     2000; office work guidelines in 2001
New-style FMPs effectively implemented in 57        End of project, 57     End of project, 43 forest units
forest units                                        forest units
Illegal logging reduced to below 3% of annual       June 1998              Probably in excess of 3% in 2004
allowable cut
Road & harvesting investments made in areas         Continuous             This component canceled after
where second and third fellings needed to           350 km roads in 53     midterm review. Only 2 pilot roads
complete harvesting cycle and stimulate natural     management units,      completed
regeneration                                        in 16 administrative
                                                    districts
Regulation adopted for transfer to communes of      July 1996              January 1996
state forests and pastures
State forest and pasture areas transferred to 30    30 communes by         126 communes at end of project
communes, with development plans prepared           end of project
and implemented

Achievements not Anticipated at Appraisal

Albanian National Forest and Pasture Inventory completed
Establishment of Forest and Pasture Users Associations for 126 communes
Independent Study on illegal logging completed
Establishment of interministerial task force to address illegal logging reduction
Study on effects of the Forestry Project on poverty reduction
Strategy for control of forest fires prepared and approved by Council of Ministers May 2004

A.2. Promote Conservation of Natural Forest Ecosystems

Regulations and procedures developed for            June 1997              Sept. 2000
environmental impact assessment of forest
activities
Effective institutional framework developed to      June 1997              Sept. 1997
implement project-related environmental
management (CEP, PEMU)
All environmental mitigation measures of            Continuous             Accomplished
project implemented
National biodiversity strategy and action plan      June 1998              Oct. 2000
approved. 2000 draft Law on biodiversity
protection prepared and submitted to
Parliament for approval
No new forest access roads built or harvesting      Continuous             Accomplished
areas opened up unless after approval by
PEMU/CEP of full-fledged environmental
impact assessments




                                                         - 23 -

                   Key Indicators                        Target Date                      Actual
                                                        and Quantity


Pilot project for protected areas management           June 1999         June 2004
successfully completed
New national biodiversity protection project           April 1999        Strategy for biodiversity protection
identified and prepared                                                  prepared and approved in 2001

Achievements not Anticipated at Appraisal

Two studies on Protected Areas: (i) actual status of protected areas on Albania; and (ii) an assessment and
map of main natural habitats throughout Albania.

A.3. Adjust Forest/Pasture Sector Operations to Market Economy

Improved procedures adopted for pricing, sales and     July 1996         1998, amended 2000
harvesting of domestic forest products
External trade in forest products liberalized          June 1998         Feb. 1998
Domestic prices of forest products reflect border      Dec. 1998         Dec. 1998
prices
Positive fiscal balance of funding flow for            Dec. 1998         Not achieved
commercial forest and pasture operations achieved
Policy, regulatory and service functions for forestry  Jan. 1999         Strategy paper development,
and pastures separated institutionally from                              government in process of garnering
commercial operations                                                    consensus for next steps
Timber harvests increased (and limited) to annual      June 1999         Sept. 1999
allowable cut calculated for areas with road access

Achievements not Anticipated at Appraisal

Analysis of markets and marketing of forest based products.


B. BY PROJECT COMPONENT

B.1. Project Management, and Institutional and Policy Reforms

DGFP Revenue Account in operation                      Oct. 1996         March 1998
Bidding documents issued for ICB of vehicles, and      July 1996         August 1995
communications and office equipment
Decrees for establishment of project steering          July 1996         SC & PMU 1995, PEMU 1996
committee, project management unit (PMU), and
project environmental management unit (PEMU)
issued
Resident senior advisor (FAO-GCP) in post              Aug. 1996         June 1997
TOR finalized and issued for forest and pasture        Sept. 1996        Feb. 1998
sector strategy review
Human resource plan prepared                           Dec. 1996         Dec. 1996




                                                       - 24 -

                    Key Indicators                           Target Date and                     Actual
                                                                  Quantity

Review of effectiveness of DGFP action program to         June 1998                   Feb. 1998
reduce illegal forest harvesting and, if positive,
achieve lifting of export ban on wood products
Draft report available from consultants on forest and     May 1997                    Sept. 1998
pasture sector strategy
Final report on forest and pasture sector strategy        June 1998                   June 1999
available with agreed recommendations
TOR finalized and lead consultants recruited for          June 1998                   Sept. 1999
preparation of project mid-term review, including
the detailed preparation of institutional reform
proposals
Implementation of mid-term project review                 Nov. 1998                   Nov. 1999
Legal establishment of forest corporation and             Jan. 1999                   Target removed at midterm
forest/pasture department in MAF                                                      review. New strategy for
                                                                                      forest and pasture
                                                                                      development and reform
                                                                                      documents approved by
                                                                                      Government in April 2004.

Achievements not Anticipated at Appraisal

A strategy for forest and pasture sector development and reform was prepared and approved by the Council of
Ministers; a new draft forest law is prepared and expected to be finalized and adopted by September 2004.

B.2. Major Physical Targets for Project Implementation

Office construction/rehabilitation

Office construction/rehabilitation completed for 5        May 1998                    May 1998
DGFP district offices
Office and stable construction/rehabilitation             Dec. 1998                   30 offices, 2002
completed for 90 sector offices

Achievements not Anticipated at Appraisal

After 97 civil unrest, it was agreed to rehabilitate only 30 additional offices. This was completed in 2003 and
all rehabilitated district offices were supplied with equipment.


Forest management

Nine additional road blocks to control timber traffic     Dec. 1996                   Oct. 2000
established
New-style forest management plans completed for           1 pilot unit by Dec         1 unit, Dec. 1996
                                                          1996
                                                          additional 12 units by      13 units, 2000
                                                          Dec. 1997
                                                          additional 16 units by      12 units, 2001
                                                          Dec. 1998
                                                          additional 17 units by      11 units, 2002
                                                          Dec. 1999
                                                          additional 12 units by      6 units, 2003
                                                          Dec. 2000




                                                          - 25 -

                Key Indicators                 Target Date and Quantity                  Actual

Thinning operations completed for              4,000 ha by Feb. 1997         6800 ha, July 1998
                                               additional 5500 ha by Feb.    2484 ha, Dec. 2001
                                               1998
                                               additional 6500 ha in each    1838 ha, Dec. 2002
                                               year thereafter               810 ha, Dec. 2003
Reforestation:                                 Oct. 1996                     Not implemented
Completion of survey of reforestation needs
and preparation of detailed proposal for area
selection, seed/seedling supply, cost estimate
and implementation schedule for review with
IDA
Reforestation in high forest areas completed   1000 ha by Dec. 2000          1280 ha in communal forest in
for a total of                                                               2003

Achievements not Anticipated at Appraisal

GIS capacity developed and applied to support development and update of new-style forest management plans.
Reforestation of 1,280 ha of communal forest areas.

Forest Roads Rehabilitation

Forest roads survey completed and draft        April 1996                    Oct. 1996
roads program prepared
Completion of rehabilitation work              115 km by Dec. 1997           None
                                               additional 75 km by Dec.      4 km, Dec. 2001
                                               1998
                                               additional 160 km by Dec.     8 km, Dec. 2002
                                               2000                          10.5 km, Dec. 2003
                                                              Targets changed at midterm

B.3. Communal Forest and Pasture Management

DGFP approval of investment plans for 3        Feb. 1996                     Feb. 1996
pilot communes
Transfer of DGFP forest and pasture land to    Feb. 1996                     Feb. 1996
3 pilot communes
Investment plans approved and land             3 communes by Dec. 1997       3 communes Dec. 1997
transferred for an additional                                                4 communes Dec. 1998
Investment plans approved and land             6 communes by Dec. 1998       19 communes Dec. 1999
transferred for an additional                                                24 communes Dec. 2000
Investment plans approved and land             8 communes by Dec. 1999       26 communes Dec. 2001
transferred for an additional                                                16 communes Dec. 2002
Investment plans approved and land             10 communes by Dec. 2000      17 communes Dec. 2003
transferred for an additional

Achievements not Anticipated at Appraisal

Increase in number of communes involved in this component from 30 to 126 was due to successful results in
terms of rehabilitating commune managed forests and beneficial poverty reduction impacts.




                                                      - 26 -

                Key Indicators                     Target Date and Quantity                   Actual

B.4. Protected Areas Management

Completion of model protected areas               June 1997                       Target switched to Dajiti
management plan for Lura National Park                                            and achieved by mid 2004
Completion of training, rehabilitation and        June 1998                       End of project
equipping of 5 district offices and
implementation of Lura (replaced by Dajti)
Park Development plan

Achievements not Anticipated at Appraisal

During the midterm review it was agreed that the MP of Lura would be replaced by Dajti National Park. This
was completed in June 2004.
Office rehabilitation and/or construction expanded to include 20 protected areas in different parts of the
country.

B.5. Administrative Matters and Reporting

Draft annual project work program and budget      Each year by Oct. 15            Yes
submitted
Quarterly project progress reports submitted      By Apr. 30, Jul. 31, Oct. 31,   Yes
                                                  Jan. 31 of each year
Annual audit of project accounts submitted        Each year by June 30            Yes




                                                       - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Institutional Support                                          5.10             8.10           157
Improved State Forest Management                               8.10             6.80            84
Rehabilitation of Forest Roads                                 2.40             0.19             8
Communal Forest and Pasture Management                         2.30             5.40           235
Protected Areas Management                                     0.40             0.99           248

Total Baseline Cost                                           18.30           21.48
 Physical Contingencies                                        1.50
 Price Contingencies                                           1.80
                          Total Project Costs                 21.60           21.48
                            Interest during construction
                                          Front-end fee
                    Total Financing Required                  21.60           21.48


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB               2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.00         2.76          0.00        2.76
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.99)          (0.00)     (1.99)
2. Goods                             1.64             0.00         1.12          0.00        2.76
                                    (0.45)           (0.00)      (0.39)          (0.00)     (0.84)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00         3.34          2.96        6.30
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.15)          (0.00)     (1.15)
4. Forest Works                      0.00             0.00         6.19          0.00        6.19
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.11)          (0.00)     (2.11)
5. Incremental operating             0.00             0.00         3.61          0.00        3.61
costs                               (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.94)          (0.00)     (1.94)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                             1.64             0.00        17.02          2.96       21.62
                                    (0.45)           (0.00)      (7.58)          (0.00)     (8.03)
Works = civil works.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB               2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.41        1.88           0.04       2.33
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                             3.01             0.06        1.10           1.28       5.44


                                                  - 28 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   3. Services                              1.07               0.00              3.20             0.86              5.13
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   4. Forest Works                          0.00               0.00              6.91             0.00              6.91
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   5. Incremental operating                 0.00               0.00              1.47             0.00              1.47
   costs                                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
       Total                                4.08               0.47             14.56             2.18              21.28
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   Works = civil works.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
       the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA         Govt.       CoF.       IDA      Govt.      CoF.
Institutional support           0.80         0.30         4.40        2.50         0.42        5.18     312.5     140.0     117.7
Improved state forest           3.10         1.00         5.70        2.14         0.75        3.90      69.0      75.0      68.4
management
Rehabilitation of forest        2.60         0.30         0.00        0.12         0.01        0.06       4.6       3.3      0.0
roads
Communal forest &               1.10         0.30         1.50        2.73         0.67        2.00     248.2     223.3     133.3
pasture management
Protected areas                 0.50         0.20         0.00        0.35         0.23        0.41      70.0     115.0      0.0
management
Total (incl contingencies)      8.00         2.10        11.60        8.00         2.10       11.53     100.0     100.0      99.4

   Notes:      1. All TA budgeted under the Institutional Support component.
               2. Institutional support component includes $2.5 M Italian grant administered by FAO-CP.
               Errors are due to rounding.




                                                           - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

At the time of project preparation, an economic analysis was undertaken whereby the Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) was calculated for the each of the project components separately, as well as for the project
as a whole. Returns that were anticipated from road rehabilitation and construction constituted the
majority of the predicted economic benefits at that time. However, under implementation, the emphasis of
project interventions shifted away from road rehabilitation and towards community management for forests
and pastures. Consequently, a comparison with SAR economic analysis would not be appropriate and,
instead, a new economic reevaluation analysis has been undertaken, including assessment of benefits that
were not previously anticipated or incorporated in the economic analysis undertaken at the time of
appraisal. The structure of the economic analysis, however, has remained the same. Analysis is based on a
comparison of incremental benefits realized by the project -- and those that are expected to be realized by
the project in the future -- versus a "without project" scenario. The without project scenario has been
defined as the development of the situation without the project over the next 40 years. All benefits and costs
have been expressed in constant prices. Because of the nature of the project (the objective of the project is
to generate economic benefits for various sections of the local population and does not generate direct
financial/fiscal revenues for the government), financial and fiscal impact assessments were not estimated at
appraisal or for the ICR.

The challenge in undertaking economic analysis of environmental and rural projects is often associated with
difficulties associated with quantification and monetization of benefits. This is the case with respect to the
communal forestry aspect of this project where a variety of different kinds of benefits are accrued by a
large number of different stakeholder groups, few of which fall under the administrative purview of the
Project Implementation Unit or the Ministry of Forestry and Agriculture. Quantitative and qualitative
estimates of some of the benefits derived by different stakeholder groups include the following:

For the project as a whole, taking into account all costs and benefits, the Economic Rate of Return amounts
to 22%.

Component 1: Institutional Development - Benefits that have already been realized or are expected to be
realized as a result of project supported activities include:

Reduction of illegal logging and resulting reduced loss of forest productivity and biodiversity: Partly due to
unexpected events of 1997, illegal logging increased in many high forest locations throughout Albania.
However the forestry project was able to reduce illegal logging in some project areas. The estimated
positive impact of the forestry project on reducing illegal logging in project areas is approximately 30,000
m3 per year, commencing 1997. As a result of improving information flow, cooperation among concerned
institutions, and effectiveness of field investigations, reduction of illegal logging in project influenced areas
is expected to include an additional 20,000 m3 per annum from 2009, which would not occur in the without
project scenario. The economic benefit of the reduced illegal logging and hence increased protection of
biodiversity/forest loss has been approximated based on an average standing wood value for the mixture of
tree species involved with an estimated value wood of 25 US$/m3.

Unquantified and unquantifiable benefits associated with this component include the reduced costs of
harvesting and improved efficiency of transport and primary processing that are likely to derive from
training provided under the project, and the potential value of the forest inventory as a tool for improving
management of the sector as a whole. The cost of harvesting is likely to have been reduced as a result of
training provided for forest field staff. Training included the introduction of new and more efficient
methods for harvesting, log transport and primary processing in order to reduce costs and improve cost



                                                      - 30 -

recovery. The national forest and pasture inventory provided accurate assessments of the status and trends
in use of forest and pasture resources. This information provides an invaluable tool to guide the
development of policy and strategic choices that will improve returns to the state derived from the
sustainable management of the resource. Quantification of the benefits that have been and will be derived
from training and from improved decision making based on information made available by the national
inventory has not been possible.

Based on the benefits that have been quantified, the Economic Rate of Return for this component related to
all donor contributions and costs is calculated at 25%.

Component 2: Improved state forest management - Major benefits that have already been realized
under the project or are expected to be realized in the future as a result of project investments include
reduced costs associated with pre-commercial and improved forest productivity and forest health due to
commercial thinning operations in the different type of forests where they have taken place or that are
planned to be implemented. Pre-commercial thinning has already been conducted over 12,000 ha of
forests. Improved extraction methods will reduce the number of thinning interventions from 3-4 over a five
year period down to only one, thereby reducing both the cost and environmental impact of pre-commercial
thinning. In addition to commercial thinning that DGFP is undertaking on a pilot basis in year 2004, forest
management plans indicate that pre-commercial thinning will be undertaken in up to 20,000 hectares per
year, and commercial thinning can be undertaken up to about 10,000 ha/year. Estimation of the Economic
Rate of Return is based on reduced cost and therefore costs savings for pre-commercial thinning and as a
proxy for increased forest productivity the volume of firewood and timber derived from commercial
thinning operations, which are estimated at 10 m3 per hectare and 30 m3 per hectare, respectively. This
leads to benefits due to cost savings of US$1,900,000 per year in the case of pre-commercial thinning and
to benefits for commercial thinning of US$1,700,000 per year. The Economic Rate of Return based for
this component, based on all donors costs and benefits is calculated at 16%.

Component 3: Rehabilitation of forests roads - The benefits of this activity are mostly derived from
improved access to forests for harvest, auctions and other management interventions and, hence reduced
costs and environmental impacts. While the SAR envisaged rehabilitation of 350 km of forest roads, only
22.5 km of forests road rehabilitation was realized in the forests units of Lepusha and Qarrishta in
Librazhd district. This 22.5 km of forests road rehabilitation has opened access to approximately 200
hectares of forests. Partly as a result of the reduced costs of harvesting in these forest districts (fewer
breakdowns, less use of fuel, shorter time for extraction, etc) standing wood prices increased by 100%.
Other benefits of this component are associated with future improved suppression of forest fires due to
improved access. The Economic Rate of Return for this small component of 22.5 km of forests roads for
all donors amounts to 43%.

Component 4: Communal management - The forestry project supported transfer of 327,000 ha of forest
and 78,000 ha of pasture lands from state to commune management. The project supported reconstruction
of forest and pasture ecosystems and establishment of sustainable management by communes through
developing the legal framework for the transfer process; developing and applying a participatory
methodology to prepare 106 ten-year commune level forest and/or pasture management plans; providing
training and seminars for DFS staff, commune members and local government; establishing 126 Natural
Resource Users Associations, and funding some investments identified in the plans, including new and
rehabilitated water points, and anti-erosion works, planting seedlings, etc.

Benefits are realized through generation of fodder, fuel wood and timber on an estimated 60% of converted
coppice areas. Quantities generated are approximately 1 ton per hectare for fodder, 4 m3 per hectare for


                                                     - 31 -

fuel wood and, as of 2015, 1 m3 per hectare for timber. Revenues estimated are derived from the market
value for fodder and profit margin for fuel wood and timber ($1/ton, $6/cubic meter and $8/cubic meter
respectively). This will add up in the future to US$4,300,000 per year in net generated benefits.

In addition, communes are now able to produce medicinal plants, herbs and chestnuts, etc; and meat and
milk production is increased. Each commune management plan outlines potential production of non-timber
forest products. While the benefits that could be derived by a commune from the sale and use of
non-timber forest projects is estimated to be within the range US$20,000-50,000 per annum, actual
earnings are currently only $5,000-10,000 per year annum, as markets have not yet been developed.
Benefits are calculated based on the assumption that benefits will initially be generated at a lower level and
will increase in the future when markets will be more developed. The costs of collection are estimated at
50% of these revenues. The Economic Rate of Return for this component taking into account all donors
contributions and costs amounts to 32%.

The non-quantified downstream benefits derived from erosion control are significant. During the transition
period (1990-2000) removal of forest cover resulted in massive increases in erosion, resulting in
sedimentation of damns and major hydroelectric reservoirs, as well as destruction of infrastructure
particularly rural roads. An estimated 50% of Albania's irrigation system is impacted by erosion resulting
from degradation of forest cover in upper watersheds. Data on the amounts of sediments or the costs of
regular maintenance of irrigation systems and repairs and reconstruction following severe flooding are not
available. Similarly it has not been possible to estimate the downstream benefits associated with
reforestation that has been supported under this project.

Poverty alleviation benefits are also significant. A multi-agency study on "the Effects of the Albania
Forestry Project on Poverty Reduction" was carried out in 2001-2002 under the Albania Forestry Project in
collaboration with Directorate General of Forests and Pastures FAO-TA Project GCP/ALB/004/ITA
World Food Programme, and the Project Management Unit. The study estimates that the budget of
households participating in Forestry Project's activities increased about 30% per year.




                                                     - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/94                     2    AG ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FORESTER (1)
              06/94                     1    ECOLOGIST (1)
              08/94                     2    FORESTER (1);
                                             INTERNATIONAL
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              09/94                     2    AG ECONOMIST (2)
              10/94                     1    AG ECONOMIST (1)
              03/95                     6    AG ECONOMIST (1),
                                             FORESTER (3);
                                             ECOLOGIST (1);
                                             INST DEV SPEC (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/95                     7    AG ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FORESTER (1); NATURAL
                                             RESOURCES SPEC (1);
                                             FINANCIAL/ECON
                                             ANALYST (2); ENVIRON
                                             ECONOMIST (1); INST
                                             DEV SPEC (C) (1)
              10/95                     4    AG ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FORESTER (2); ECONOMIC/
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              02/96                     1    TELECOM ENGINEER (1)
              05/96                     1    PROCUREMENT SPEC (1)

 Supervision
              12/03/1996                3    FORESTRY SPEC (1);               S               S
                                             RURAL DEV SPEC (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1)
              03/03/1997                1    RURAL DEV SPEC (1)               S               S
              05/27/1997                2    FORESTRY SPEC (1);               U               S
                                             RURAL DEV SPEC (1)
              12/23/1997                3    FORESTRY SPEC (1);               U               S
                                             BIODIVERSITY SPEC (1);
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              08/02/1998                3    FORESTRY SPEC (1);               S               S
                                             BIODIV/FORESTRY SPEC (1);
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              02/07/1999                4    BIODIV/FORESTRY SPEC (1);        S               S
                                             FORESTRY SPEC (1);
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              07/02/1999                2    BIODIV/FORESTRY SPEC (1);        S               S



                                              - 33 -

                                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
               12/09/1999              4   BIODIV/FORESTRY SPEC (1);          S    S
                                           FORESTRY SPEC (2);
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               03/25/2000              1   FORESTRY SPEC (1)                  S    S
               12/01/2000              3   FORESTRY SPEC (1);                 S    S
                                           PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                           PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
               05/21/2001              2   FORESTRY SPEC (1);                 S    S
                                           PROJECT OFFICER (1)
               12/09/2001              3   FORESTRY SPEC (1);                 S    S
                                           PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                           PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
               07/31/2002              3   FORESTRY SPEC (1);                 S    S
                                            SOCIAL & ENVIRON SPEC
                                           (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                           (1)
               05/28/2003              3   FORESTRY SPEC (1);                 S    S
                                           SOCIAL DEV SPEC (1);
                                           PROJECT OFFICER (1)
               09/19/2003              6   FORESTRY SPEC (1);                 S    S
                                           SOCIAL DEV SPEC (1);
                                           PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                           BIODIVERSITY SPEC (1);
                                           LAND TENURE SPEC (1);
                                           RURAL DEV SPEC (1)
               05/15/2004              6   BIODIVERSITY SPEC (1);             S    S
                                           SOCIAL DEV SPEC (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                                           PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                           FORESTRY SPEC (1);
                                           RURAL DEV & WATERSHED
                                           MGT SPEC (1)

 ICR
               07/04/2004             4     FORESTRY SPEC (2);
                                            BIODIVERSITY SPEC (1);
                                            PROJECT OFFICER (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            75.0                         293.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 79.2                         233.2
  Supervision                          210.7                         645.6
  ICR                                   NA*                           NA*
  Total
* Included under supervision.




                                            - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Communal Forests and Pastures Management Programme Evaluation Report
2. Economic Analysis of Institutional Reform
3. Draft Report on Institutional Reform of Forests and Pastures Sector and Restructuring of
   DGFP
4. Declaration of the Future of Albania's Forest and Pasture Sector
5. Project Supervision Reports and Aide Memoire
6. Project Progress Reports




                                              - 37 -

- 38 -

