Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2846 ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(Forestry Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 3, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2846 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1996, between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Italy (GOI)  a 
loan (the GOI Loan) in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to $8,500,000, and a 
grant (the GOI Grant) in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to $2,500,000, to 
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements to 
be entered into between the Borrower and GOI (the GOI Loan Agreement and the GOI Grant 
Agreement respectively); and
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Switzerland (GOS) 
a grant (the GOS Grant) in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to $450,000 to 
assist in financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and GOS (the GOS Grant Agreement);
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
 
(ii)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons and entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Bank of Albania" means the Central Bank of the Borrower established 
pursuant to the Law on the Bank of Albania No. 8076 dated February 22, 1996;
(b)
"CEP" means the Committee for Environmental Protection within the 
Ministry of Health and Environment of the Borrower;
(c)
"DGFP" means the Directorate General of Forests and Pastures within the 
MAF (as hereinafter defined);
(d)
"Forest Technician School" means the Forest Technician School of the 
Borrower;
(e)
"Forest and Pasture Research Institute" means the Forest and Pasture 
Research Institute of the Borrower;
(f)
"Implementing Agencies" means the DGFP, the Forest Technician School and 
the Forest and Pasture Research Institute, and the communes selected pursuant to 
paragraph B (1) of Schedule 4 of this Agreement;
(g)
"MAF" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Borrower;
 
(h)
"PEMU" means the Project Environmental Management Unit within the MAF to 
be established pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(i)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit established within the MAF as 
referred to in paragraph A of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(j)
"Project Steering Committee" means the committee chaired by the Minister 
of Agriculture and Food or his representative and comprising the director of 
agricultural program office of MAF, the head of PMU, the head of PEMU and the director 
general of DGFP;
(k)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
January 20, 1995 and February 1, 1995 between the Borrower and the Association;
(l)
"Action Plan" means the DGFP program of actions to reduce illegal forest 
harvesting, as referred to in the letter from the Director-General of Forests and 
Pastures to the Association, dated February 27, 1996, as the same action plan has been 
revised by agreement with the Association, and reissued as of March 1, 1996; and
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
Page  3
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to five million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 5,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bank of Albania on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2006 and ending December 15, 2035. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2015 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i): the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
Page  4
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through Implementing Agencies with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and forestry 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02  The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than July 1, 1996, adopt improved marketing and pricing 
procedures for timber and fuel wood, acceptable to the Association and maintain such 
procedures thereafter;
(b)
not later than January 1, 1997, establish and thereafter maintain PEMU 
with staffing and functions acceptable to the Association.  The tems of reference, 
qualifications and experience of the head of PEMU and the advisors on environmental 
management shall be at all times acceptable to the Association;
(c)
not later than June 30, 1997, prepare sector strategy review documents, 
which would include recommendations for legal, institutional, financial, economic, 
environmental and technical measures for the forestry and pasture sector, and submit 
the same to the Association for its review;
(d)
not later than June 30, 1998, prepare under terms of reference agreed 
with the Association, a study of alternative actions for the long-term development of 
its forestry and pasture sector taking into account the views of the Association on 
the strategy review documents submitted pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section; 
based on the findings and recommendations of this study, review with the Association 
its proposals for amending its Law on Forestry and the draft Law on the Protection of 
Nature and Biological Diversity not later than April 30, 1999; and submit the agreed 
proposal and the draft to the Parliament not later than June 30, 1999; and
(e)
not later than October 15 of each year, submit to the Association, for 
approval, an annual work program and budget for Project execution during the next 
calendar year and take all measures required to ensure compliance with such approved 
work programs and budgets.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about November 30, 1998: (i) a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project, in particular with reference to the measures specified in paragraph 5 of Part 
A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, during the period preceding the date of said 
Page  5
report, and setting out the next steps recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and (ii) a report on the implementation of DGFP's Action Plan to 
reduce illegal forest harvesting; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 1998, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the reports referred to in paragraphs (b)(i) and (ii) 
of this Section, ensure satisfactory progress has been achieved on the measures 
specified in paragraph 5 of Part A of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and thereafter, 
take all steps required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
said report and the Association's view on the matter.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.05 For the purpose of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
Page  6
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(i)
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this Section: 
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
GOI Loan, the GOI Grant or the GOS Grant shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the GOI Loan Agreement, GOI Grant 
Agreement or the GOS Grant Agreement providing therefor, or 
(B)
the GOI Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under the GOI Loan Agreement, the GOI Grant Agreement or the GOS 
Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the GOI Loan Agreement, the GOI Grant Agreement and the GOS Grant 
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana, Albania
Page  7
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ALBANIA
By /s/ L. Dilja
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J.-M. Severino
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                            Credit              % of
                           Allocated        Expenditures
                         (Expressed in          to be
   Category             SDR Equivalent)       Financed
 (1) Civil works           1,240,000          90%
     under Parts A,
     B.1 and C
     of the Project
 (2) Forest works
    (a) Thinning and         820,000          90%
        reforestation
        under Parts B.3
        and B. 4 of
        the Project
    (b) Forest and           450,000          90%
        pasture improve-
        ments under
        Part D (iii) of
        the Project
 (3) Goods                   170,000          100% of foreign
                                              expenditures,
Page  8
                                              100% of local
                                              expenditures
                                              (ex-factory
                                              cost) and 85%
                                              of local
                                              expenditures for
                                              other items
                                              procured locally
 (4) Consultants'
     services and
     training
     (a) under Parts A,      380,000          100%
         B, C and E
         of the Project
     (b) under Part B.2 of   280,000          100%
         the Project
 (5) Incremental           1,070,000          100% up to
     operating costs                          SDR 340,000
                                              equivalent,
                                              70% up to
                                              the next
                                              SDR 680,000
                                              equivalent, and
                                              40% thereafter
 (6) Refunding of            410,000          Amounts due
     Project                                  pursuant to
     Preparation                              Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                  of this Agreement
 (7) Unallocated             680,000
                           _________
       TOTAL              $5,500,000
                          ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means operation and maintenance 
costs which would not have been incurred absent the Project and includes, costs with 
respect to: (i) maintenance and operation of equipment procured under the Project; 
(ii) incremental staff salaries; and (iii) office supplies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (i) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (ii) payments for expenditures under Category (2) (b) of the table set 
forth in paragraph (1) unless regulations for the transfer of state forest and pasture 
land to communes, acceptable to the Association, have been adopted; and (iii) payments 
for expenditures under Category (4) (b) of the table set forth in paragraph (1) unless 
regulations for forest management planning methodology, acceptable to the Association, 
have been adopted.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) expenditures for civil and forest 
works, goods and incremental operating costs under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent each; and (ii) contracts for the employment of consultants not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  9
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to restore degraded state-owned forest 
and pasture areas and promote their sustainable use; (ii) to promote the conservation 
of natural forest ecosystems; and (iii) to take the initial steps in the transition of 
the forestry/pasture sector to a market economy.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development
 
1.
Provision of office and transport equipment including telecommunications 
facilities and financing of related incremental operating costs and technical 
assistance to reorganize and strengthen the institutional capacity of DGFP through: 
(i) decentralizing its management to better serve district and sector offices with 
personnel and finance management, marketing, engineering design and forest management 
planning; (ii) developing capacity in communal forest and pasture management and in 
pasture administration; and (iii) developing market economy skills for bidding, 
contracting, marketing, financial management through training, and involvement of the 
private sector through information campaigns.
2.
Provision of in-service training for forestry and pasture staff, education for 
forestry technicians and strengthening the Forest Technician School and the Forest and 
Pasture Research Institute through upgrading the facilities and staff training.
3.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of PMU for Project management and 
coordination.
4.
(i)
Support for the establishment and strengthening the institutional 
capacity of PEMU to ensure environmentally sound project implementation and promote 
conservation of natural forest ecosystems through provision of technical assistance 
and equipment including transport equipment, and financing of related operational 
costs; and (ii) strengthening of the institutional capacity of CEP to prepare 
guidelines for environmental monitoring and environmental impact assessment, through 
the provision of technical assistance. 
5.
Provision of technical assistance and training to support: (i) the communal 
forest and pasture management component and protected areas management component; and 
(ii) project management, policy reforms and institutional development. 
Part B:
Improved State Forest Management
 
1.
Strengthening the forest management and conservation capacity of DGFP's field 
offices to efficiently manage and protect state forests and implement the Action Plan 
to reduce illegal forest harvesting through the provision of office, transport and 
communications equipment and the  financing of related incremental operating costs; 
the repair and refurbishing of administration buildings and the provision of technical 
assistance.
2.
Developing new and improved forest management plans. 
 
3.
Reforestation by supporting artificial complementary regeneration in areas of 
high forests that: (i) have been harvested and where the natural regeneration has 
partially or totally failed; and (ii) are located on highly erosive soils. 
4.
Pre-commercial thinning on about 29,000 ha of young stands of black pine, beech 
and oak.
5.
Provision of support for: (i) forest and pasture research; and (ii) monitoring 
activities for forest protection.
Part C:
Forest Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
 
Rehabilitation of about 350 km of existing forest roads in 53 forest management 
units selected according to forest management plans developed satisfactory to the 
Association.
Part D:
Management of Communal Forest and Pasture Areas
 
Improvement of participatory management of forests and pastures in about 30 
Page  10
communes, agreed with the Association, through: (i) implementation of a pilot project 
in Gjinar, Tregan and Kajan communes, to develop the methodology for communal 
management of forest and pasture areas; (ii) development of improved management and 
investment plans for areas of state forests and pastures to be transferred to 
communes; (iii) implementation of communal investment projects in restoration of 
degraded areas and pasture improvement, planting of fodder and fuel wood trees and 
fencing for protection and rehabilitation of highly degraded coppice and shrub 
forests; and (iv) establishment of a data base on communally managed forests and 
pastures and preparation of studies on the production and marketing potential for 
non-timber forest products.
Part E:
Protected Areas Management
 
1.
Strengthening of protected areas management services in Diber, Llogara, Valbona, 
Bredhi i Drenoves and Kune Vaini districts through provision of transport and 
communications equipment, training and technical assistance.
2.
Preparation and implementation of a protected areas pilot management plan for 
the Lura National Park.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and  paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
For goods to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 
of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract and $300,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping 
 
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and $100,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
 
Page  11
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract and $2.3 million or less 
in the aggregate, may be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to 
a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotations for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the 
contract.
5.
Force Account
 
Works for reforestation under Part B.3 of the Project which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $100,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be carried out by 
force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
6.
Community Participation
 
Works required for Part D of the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; (b) the first three works contracts under each Parts 
B.1 and C of the Project, procured in accordance with Parts C.1 and C.4 of this 
Schedule; (c) the first three forest works contracts under Parts B.3 and B.4 of the 
Project, procured in accordance with Parts C.1 and C.4 of this Schedule; and (d) the 
first contract procured under Part C.6 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.  Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consultants 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to 
prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; and (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consultants raising the contract value 
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  12
Implementation Program
The Borrower shall apply the following Project implementation arrangements, as 
they may be modified by the agreement of the Borrower and the Association.
A.
Project Management
 
(1)
The MAF, through the Project Steering Committee and PMU, shall be responsible 
for the overall implementation and coordination of the Project.  The Forest Technician 
School and the Forest and Pasture Research Institute shall be responsible for 
implementing Parts A.2 and B.5 of  the Project.  Part A.4 (i) of the Project shall be 
implemented by PEMU, and Part A.4 (ii) of the Project shall be implemented by CEP.
(2)
The Borrower shall maintain the PMU under terms of reference and with staffing 
and other resources acceptable to the Association.  The PMU shall be headed by a 
director and supported by an advisor and the forestry policy specialist whose terms of 
reference, qualifications and experience shall be at all times acceptable to the 
Association.
(3)
The PMU shall report to the Project Steering Committee and shall be responsible 
for: (i) preparation jointly with the Implementing Agencies of annual work programs 
and budgets including the annual procurement plan; (ii) coordination and monitoring 
under arrangements satisfactory to the Association of the implementation of approved 
work programs by the Implementing Agencies; (iii) procurement of goods, works and 
consultants' services in accordance with Schedule 3 of this Agreement in close 
collaboration with the Implementing Agencies; (iv) maintenance and audit of Project 
accounts; and (v) preparation of reports required pursuant to Section 9.06 of the 
General Conditions.
(4)
The Project Steering Committee shall be responsible for: (i) the approval of 
annual work programs and budgets prepared by the PMU; (ii) quarterly review of 
implementation and approval of budget adjustments proposed by PMU; and (iii) any other 
matters relating to the fulfillment of the obligations of the Borrower referred to in 
this Agreement, which may be specified from time to time by the Borrower, pursuant to 
the agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
(5)
Pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) and (c) of this Agreement, actions of the Borrower 
shall be reviewed and evaluated with reference to the following measures:
(a)
progress achieved in carrying out its strategy for the institutional 
restructuring of the forestry and pasture sector;
(b)
the impact of Project supported policy reforms (control of illegal 
logging, timber export trade liberalization, and timber pricing and marketing reforms) 
on sale volumes, domestic prices, government revenues, and the domestic timber 
industry;
(c)
progress achieved in improving the Borrower's forest management planning;
 
(d)
implementation progress and future reforestation program taking account 
of its economic viability;
(e)
compliance with the mitigating measures required for forest activities 
under the Project;
(f)
progress achieved and future implementation of Part D of the Project; and
 
(g)
proposals for a follow-up operation for biodiversity protection, based on 
a biodiversity strategy.
B.
Part D of the Project
 
(1)
DGFP shall select the communes for the implementation of Part D of the Project,  
based on a satisfactory socio-economic situation, management capacity, and livestock, 
forestry and pasture situation.
(2)
The projects prepared by the selected commune shall be submitted to DGFP for 
approval based on criteria set forth in regulation for the transfer of state forest 
and pasture land to communes referred to in paragraph (3) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
(3)
DGFP through its district office shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to 
Page  13
the Association, with the selected commune providing for the execution of the approved 
project.
(4)
The PMU shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Association, with the 
selected commune, setting forth the terms and conditions for the financing of the 
approved project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of SDR 700,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the  Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  14
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
