Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
-q 24_J 9 26(               Report No. P-4227-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 17.6 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SARARAN AFRICA CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 52.8 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAISE
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
May 19, 1986
Industrial and Development Finance Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects neaRrtmant
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Is contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Zaire (Z)
.         On September 12, 1983, Zaire devalued by about 80 percent vis-a-vis the SDR
and irtroduced a transitional dual exchange rate regime which lasted until
:--       February 24, 1984; thereafter, the rate has floated on a weekly basis.
March 1986
Zaire 1.00 - US$0.02
US$   1.00  - Z 55.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BDZ       = Bank of Zaire (Central Bank)
EEC       = European Economic Community
EFF       = Extended Fund Facility
FED       = Economic Development Fund
GECAMINES = State Mining Company
MNEI      = Ministry of National Economy and Industry
OFIDA     = Customs Administration Authority
ONATRA    = National Transport Office
ONDE      = National Livestock Development Authority
OR        = Highway Authority
OZAC      = Zairian Office of Control
PIP       = Public Investment Program
REGIDESO = Water Authority
RVF       = River Traffic Company
RVM       = Ocean Traffic Company
SFA       = Special Facility for Africa
SNCZ      = National Railway Company
SOFIDE    = Development Finance Corporation of Zaire
SOZACOM   = Minerals Marketing Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary *.*.*.**        .............................  - ii
PART I - THE ECONOMY                                                     1
PART II - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ............... 09agos..........         6
Sector Background and Recent Performance ..................        6
Structure of industry                   ...                        7
The Financial System  ......8
Industrial Policies Before 1983 ...........................        9
PART III - THE GOVERNMENT ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM IN INDUSTRY ......         11
The Adjustment Process ...                                        11
Towards a New Industrial Strategy                                 13
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDITS ........***66...6*oo6*66*o**o66.*        18
Past and Present Bank Support to Industry  .oe9eoo.oo...o         18
Credit History and Rationale ............................0..      19
Credit Objectives  ......es ............................          20
Project Description      .............. .          .*** ......    21
Procurement and Disbursement                                      21
Expected Benefits and Risks                  ........*..0         22
P'ART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE ...................o...        24
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION .....................27
ANNEX I  -  Social Indicators Data Sheet
ANNEX II  -  Status of Bank Group Operations in Zaire
ANNEX III - Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
ANNEX IV  -  Government Industrial Policy Declaration
ITh document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otberwie be disclsed without World Dank authoriation.



ZAIRE
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDITS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Zaire
Beneficiaries:         Industrial Enterprises
Amount:                SDR 70.4 million (US$80.0 million equivalent)  of
which IDA, SDR 17.6 million (US$20.0 million
equivalent); and African Special Facility, SDR 52.8
million (US$60 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms.
Project Description:   The purpose of these Credits is to support important
policy reforms designed to increase the efficiency
and productivity of the industrial sector and to
reorient the sector towards exports and a greater
use of domestic inputs.   Building on significant
policy initiatives already undertaken in the areas
of economic stabilization, foreign exchange regime
and agricultural pricing, the proposed Credits would
support a far-reaching reform of the trade regime,
decontrol of prices of industrial goods, measures to
encourage industrial exports and improvements in the
tax treatment of enterprises. The quick-disbursing
proceeds of the Credits would be sold to industrial
enterprises, virtually all of which are privately
owned, through commercial banks at the prevailing
exchange rate, to finance imports of raw materials,
intermediate inputs and spare parts.
Benefits:              Through their support of policy changes, the Credits
are expected to lead to increased competition and
efficiency in the industrial sector and to an
improved allocation of resources in the economy,
raising in particular the relative profitability of
industrial exports and encouraging the development
of efficient domestic resource-based industries. By
raising   production   levels   of   internationally
competitive firms, the proposed operation would also
contribute to Zaire's economic recovery, provide
employment to a growing labor force, increase the
supply of domestically-produced industrial incentive
goods for the rural and urban population, and help
diversify Zaire's economy by promoting manufacturing
as a complement to copper.



- ii -
Risks:                 The main risk facing the project is that the Govern-
ment's couwmitment to the continuing adjustment pro-
cess may waiver. This risk is mitigated, however,
by several factors.  First, the Government has been
implementing important and politically sensitive
parts of its stabilization and adjustment program
since  1983.    It has, therefore,  a proven track
record  of  commitment  to  reform.    Second,- the
prolonged and serious difficulties  of the sector
have helped build up a consensus on the need for
industrial reform, and the proposed reforms enjoy
growing support in Government and private sector
circles.  Third, the expected benefits in terms of
increases in output and exports, which these Credits
would entail, as well as the increased availability
of foreign exchange, would give rapid and tangible
credibility to the policy reform package. Fourth,
the Credits' proceeds will be disbursed in two
tranches, with release of each tranche linked to
satisfactory implementation of agreed actions. Bank
Group staff will closely monitor the program's
implementation and assist Government, as needed, in
this process.
Estimated
Disbursements:
uS$Million
IDA FY              1987      1988
Annual               50        30
Cumulative           50        80
Appraisal Report:      This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED
CREDITS TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit in an amount of SDR 17.6 million (US$20 million
equivalent) and a proposed Credit from the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan
Africa in an amount of  SDR 52.8 million  tUS$60 million equivalent),
totalling SDR 70.4 million (USS80 million equivalent) to the Republic of
Zaire on standard IDA terms, to finance an industrial sector adjustment
project. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I to this report.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest country economic memorandum entitled 'Zaire:  Economic
Change and External Assistance" dated March 29, 1985 (Report No. 5417-ZR)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in April 1985. A Bank mission
to assess recent econouic developments and to review the Public Investment
Program visited Zaire in March/April 1986 and its report is under
preparation. The following section is updated to reflect the findings of
the mission.
Background
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of its area
and the fifth largest in terms of its population, but its GNP per capita
estimated at US$140 in 1984, ranks among the lowest in the continent. With
a population of about 30 milion, Zaire has a low population density
estimated at 12 persons per square kilometer.   About a third of its
population lives in urban areas. Although agriculture (commercialized and
subsistance) accounts for only 30 percent of GDP, it provides employment
and income for more than three-quarters of the population.   Mining and
mineral processing accounts for a third of GDP and about two-thirds of the
country's export earnings. Mining has traditionally been a major source of
public sector revenues.
4.         When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for
the change, both technically and institutionally.   The first six years
following independence were marked by a violent political strife and a
severe disrupL.on of the economy.  After the restoration of political order
in 1967, however, the country enjoyed a period of relative stability and
economic growth which lasted until 1974. During this period, GDP grew at a
rate of about seven percent a year in real terms.
The Crisis Period
5.           The first signs of crisis began to emerge in 1975 as copper
prices started to weaken. Between 1975 and 1983, the performance of the
Zairian economy was characterized by a series of crises and short-lived



-2-
recoveries, severe underutilization and deterioration of productive
capacity and infrastructure, the emergence of significant economic and
financial imbalances, high inflation, and a decline in per capita income.
Several factors, some of them predating 1975, contributed to these
difficulties.   Among these are:   the zairianization and nationalization
measures  of  1973/74,  which  though  rescinded  since,  destroyed  the
distribution network and undermined private sector confidence; the heavy
external borrowing of the early 1970s, much of it at unfavorable terms and
for projects with questionable economic Justification; and the deficiencies
in economic management. The weakness and volatility of world copper prices
during most of this period contributed to the severity of the crisis. By
1979, GDP contracted by about 10 percent below the pre-crisis (1972-74)
level; inflation soared to more than 100 percent with chronic shortages of
essential consumer goods, fuel and intermediate goods. With the balance of
payments under strain, external payments arrears continued to accumulate.
Although two stabilization programs supported by the IMF were adopted, and
three Paris Club reschedulings were concluded during the 1975-79 period,
these could not be implemented.
6.         Systematic efforts to cope with the crisis did not start until
1979. These included a new stabilization program supported by the IMF, new
debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club (December 1979) and with
the London Club (April 1980); the preparation of a public investment
program (PIP) for the 1979-81 period with the support of the Bank, the
installation of external advisors at the Central Bank and the Ministry of
Finance, the revamping of some institutions (the Customs Office, the
ministry of Agriculture, the Investment Commission) and the creation of
others (a Central Pay Directorate in the Ministry of Finance). Along with
a strong recovery of copper production, these measures resulted in a
considerable improvement of the economic situation in 1980.
7.            Largely on the strength of this improved performance, in
mid-1981, Zaire adopted a three-year program of economic and financial
adjustment supported by an "Extended Fund Facility- (EFF).   Zaire also
concluded another rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club in July 1981.
Further weakening of copper and cobalt markets, however, caused exports to
fall by US$540 million (about 25 percent in nominal terms). The immediate
shortage of foreign exchange resulted in a sudden decline in. imports which
in real terms were half of the pre-crisis level. With weakening financial
discipline, the budget deficit quadrupled in nominal terms, reaching 7
percent of GDP. Zaire could not comply with either the criteria under the
EFF or the Paris Club agreement.   The EFF was formally cancelled.   The
failure of the EFF meant the collapse of the premises on which the hopes of
recovery had been built.   These comprised:   (i) improved economic and
financial performance with the help of IMF supported programs; (ii) major
external debt rescheduling; (iii) systematic institutional reform; (iv)
implem.ntation of the public investment program; and (v) well focused
external aid in support of a realistic PIP.
8.           In 1982, copper prices continued to decline, GDP contracted
further and the overall balance of payments deficit reached a record high.
By end 1982, external payments arrears totalled US$940 million.   On the



-3-
domestic front, the budget deficit continued to remain high as a percent of
GDP.  Both external and domestic confidence were at a low ebb: a grossly
overvalued exchange rate, pervasive price controls, and high inflation were
the manifestations of widespread distortions in the economy. Faced with a
severe economic and financial crisis, the Government began efforts to
reestablish conditions for recovery at the end of 1982.  These efforts
included implementation in the first half of 1983 of a 'shadow program", as
a precondition for a formal stand-by arrangement with the INF.
The Stabilization Period
9.         The turning point for the Zairian economy came in 1983 when the
Government finalized, within the context of a formal IMF program, a series
of far-reaching measures, begun under the -shadow program". These measures
included:  (i) immediate devaluation of the zaire by 78 percent vis-a-vis
the SDR; (ii) introduction of a transitional dual exchange rate regime,
with unification of the two rates in Febraary 1984 and "floating"
thereafter; (iii) a substantial liberalization and simplification of the
exchange and trade system, including a revision of customs duties; (iv)
decontrol of most prices, including agricultural producers' prices and most
interest rates; (v) tight expenditure controls, including reduction of
public sector employment; and (vi) a series of actions to reduce the burden
of parastatals on the budget, including the sale of some assets*  The
adoption of these policies was followed by a substantive rescheduling
agreement with the Paris Club creditors and a meeting of the Consultative
Group  in  December  1983.    At  the  Consultative  Group  meeting,  the
participants took two important steps relevant to the execution of the
1983-85 PIP.   They agreed on the appropriateness of convening co-lender
meetings on transport (highways) and Gecamines, and they endorsed Zaire's
decision to reactivate the External Resources Coordinating Committee (which
had not met for about two years).   The co-lenders meetings were held
successfully on highways in March 1985 and on Gecamines in September 1985
and March 1986.
10.          The Government's stabilization-cum-liberalization program was
also a manifestation of the growing recognition of the importance of
private initiative and of the need to reduce Government intervention in the
economy.   The measures taken since 1983 were successful in putting the
Zairian economy onto a stabilization path: the budget deficit (taking into
account rescheduling of interest payments on external debt), which was 6
percent of GDP in 1982, turned into a budget surplus (about 1 percent of
GDP) in 1985; the balance of payments current account deficit (after
reschedulings) declined from 4.8 percent of GDP in 1982 to 1.8 percent in
1985; and the rate of inflation which soared to 76 percent in 1983 was
estimated at around 30 percent in 1985.  Some of these measures had an
immediate impact. Many price distortions were eliminated so that private
sector activities could be redirected from rent-seeking activities towards
directly productive sectors.   The supply response in the foodcrop sector
was impressive, but the results were mixed in the manufacturing sector.
While short-run supply-side constraints, with the exception of the availa-
bility of credit, were by and large eased, capacity utilization rates in
the industrial sector remained low.  In addition, demand for manufactured



-4-
products was curtailed by the sharp reduction in purchasing power in urban
areas. Following a real GDP decline of 2.6 percent in 1982, growth picked
up in 1983 and reached 2.8 percent in 1984.   According to preliminary
estimates, GDP growth was around two percent in 1985.  This slowdown was
due largely to lower import growth as the foreign exchange shortage
worsened.
11.          With the floating exchange rate and the liberalization of
exchange restrictions, both the volume of transactions and the premium on
the parallel foreign exchange market were substantially reduced.  In the
non-copper export sector, significant export volumes were restored to
official channels.   Nevertheless,  developments  in  the external sector
during 1983-85 were characterized by weak export prices and net capital
outflows. The primary source of strain on the balance of payments has been
on the capital account.   First, disbursements on grants and medium- and
long-term loans have declined precipitously since 1980.   Second, private
capital flows, including new direct foreign investment, have remained at
negligible levels even after the 1983 reforms.   Third, the debt service
burden has continued to increase notwithstanding debt reschedulings. The
rapid decline in disbursements on medium- and long-term (MHLT) loans to
Zaire can be traced back to fluctuations in the commitments before 1983 and
their continuous decline thereafter.   Since 1983, the major source of
commitments and disbursements has been multilateral donors which have
increased their lending to Zaire both individually and as a group.
Transfers from bilateral sources as a group have been negative since 1983.
12.        Zaire successfully concluded another rescheduling agreement with
the Paris Club creditors in May 1985 and, to date, has met all of its
external debt obligations under the Paris and London Club agreements. In
spite of these reschedulings, the impact of debt service and of the rapid
depreciation of the- zaire on fiscal management has been drastic.   The
combined effects of exchange rate depreciation and revenue measures taken
since 1983 have been significant: the ratio of fiscal revenues to GDP rose
from 10 percent in 1982 to 17 percent in 1985.   The tax base, however,
remains heavily dependent on export-based activities such as the copper and
oil sectors.   Despite significant revenue increases, the budget has been
under immense pressure because of the increasing debt service burden since
1982. Soaring debt service payments in local currency terms have necessi-
tated massive cuts in salaries, expenditures on goods and services, and
investment expenditures in real terms.  The share of debt service payments
(after reschedulings and including arrears and domestic debt service) rose
from 17 percent of total expenditures in 1982 to 73 percent (of which 55
percent was for external debt service payments) in 1985, thus considerably
reducing the Government's latitude in allocating budgetary resources.
13.        The brunt of financial adjustment fell on the investment budget
which financed 10-15 percent if the public investment program. As a share
of total budgetary expenditures, investment spending declined from 12
percent in 1982 to less than 3 percent in 1985. This corresponded to 0.4
percent of GDP.   Overall financial execution of the 1983-85 PIP was 65
percent, with a much lower physical execution rate. Inplementation of the



program varied significantly among sectors.   Agencies which used self-
generated funds were able to implement a larger proportion of their
programs than those which depended on the investment budget for domestic
funds.
Medium Term Prospects
14.        Despite Zaire's stabilization efforts and major policy reforms
since 1983, the country's external situation will remain difficult in the
years to come. For the 1986-90 period, the prospects of real export growth
are not favorable.   The volume of copper, cobalt, and zinc exports,
accounting for more than half of export revenues, is expected to remain
unchanged.  Much of the growth in exports is expected from gold, silver,
coffee and, increasingly, from manufactures.  In terms of volume, export
growth is not expected to exceed 3 percent during the 1986-90 period. At
the same time, the projected evolution of Zaire's export prices indicates a
slight decline in the terms of trade for the 1986-90 period. External debt
service payments will continue to represent a major burden on the balance
cf payments.   Of Zaire's total external debt outstanding, estimated at
US$5.4 billion at the end of 1985, almost two thirds have been rescheduled
at near market terms. The debt service payments on past medium and long-
term debt falling due in the 1986-90 period is US$4 billion, excluding the
obligations to the IMF.   As a result, Zaire's ratio of external debt
service payments to exports of goods and non-factor services before
rescheduling could increase from 27 percent in 1985 to 35 percent in 1988.
15.        In addition to the external financial situation, several other
constraints will continue to hamper the country's ability to resume growth
in the medium term. First, the domestic financial situation will continue
to remain tight.  In 1985, debt service after rescheduling represented 50
percent of, budgetary expenditures and it will continue to limit the
resources available for compensation of public servants and public invest-
ment.  Second, despite improvements in recent years, the institutions in
charge of economic and financial management as well as some of the major
parastatals need further strengthening. Third, there is a need to improve
upon the maintenance of an inadequate physical infrastructure.
16.        The Government's growth strategy, as expressed in the 1986-90
Five-Year Plan, is aimed at achieving a minimum growth rate of GDP of 3.5 a
year over the 1986-90 period, mainly by promoting private sector activi-
ties and by focusing on the rehabilitation of public infrastructures. This
should allow for a real increase in per capita income.  The Government's
strategy is basically sound, but its success rests on the concerted efforts
of Zaire and its international partners. For GDP to grow at 3.5 percent a
year, an annual import growth of 4.6 percent during 1986-90 would be
required. Overall import requirements are estimated at US$2.2 billion in
1986, US$2.4 billion in 1987 aLid US$2.7 billion in 1988. Given the limited
export prospects and debt service payments, the external financing gap will
average US$1.1  billion  between  1986 and  1989.   Zaire will therefore
continue to need increased, financial assistance from the international
community in the form of grants, concessional borrowings and debt relief.
The last meeting of the Consultative Group (April 1986) was encouraging:



-6-
aid indications from the donor community for the 1986-87 period were
substantially larger than the disbursements of the 1983-85 period but, in
spite of this favorable development, public grants and loans will not be
enough   to fill Zaire's external financing gap until the end of the
decade. Private capital flows, especially in the form of direct investment
by Zairian and foreign entrepreneurs alike, will have to play a major role.
17.        The growth path of the Zairian economy will largely depend also
on the efforts made by the Government at pursuing financial discipline
while implementing a structural adjustment program with two major goals:
the first would be to put in place an appropriate incentive framework,
designed to redirect resources away from rent seeking towards productive
activities; and the second would be to Improve public sector management by
institutionalizing a public expenditure programming process, by defining
more clearly the role of public enterprises in the Zairian economy, and by
improving the day-to-day operations of public administration. The Govern-
ment is continuing to take measures that go in the right direction. First,
it has requested the support of the IMF for a 22-month stand-by th.at has
been approved in principle by the IMF Board of Directors. Second, it has
prepared a core public investment program that has been reviewed by the
Bank and endorsed by the Consultative Group on Zaire, with an emphasis on
the rehabilitation of infrastructures and on selected new investments.
Continued efforts to maintain internal and external equilibria in the
context of a program of adjustment with growth could lead to a turnaround
in the balance of payments situation by the early 1990's.
PART II - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Sector Background and Recent Performance
18.          Zaire's industrial sector (including manufacturing and agro-
industries but excluding mining, mineral processing and construction) con-
tributed about US$200 million (or five percent) to GDP in 1984, employing
an estimated 150,000 workers or 10 percent of total employment in the
modern sector. The five percent share of industry in Zaire's GDP is among
the lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa. As recently as ten years ago, however,
this share was more than twice as large and was comparable to the GDP
industry share of such countries as Kenya, Zambia and Ghana.
19.          Between 1966 and 1974, industrial output grew at an annual
average rate of about 6 percent*  Most of the industrial growth occurred
between 1970 and 1974, supported by expanding domestic demand due to rising
incomes from mining, a favorable investment climate, and protection of the
domestic market. Since 1975, however, industrial output decreased without
interruption until 1983, when it stood at 31 percent below its 1975
level-a decline three times greater than that registered by GDP.   The
decline in industrial output started with the collapse of copper prices in
1974 which coincided with the aftermath of the first round of the oil price
increases.  The resulting shortage of foreign exchange, together with the
unfavorable investment climate, caused a sharp decrease in investment,
capacity utilization rates (in many cases below 50 percent) and a



-7-
deterioration of equipment.   The worsening situation in agriculture and
transport led to shortages of local inputs as well.
20.       Since the Government's introduction of far-reaching reforms late
in 1983, there has been a modest recovery in industrial output, but this
has lagged behind the economy's overall performance. In 1984, industrial
output grew by less than 2 percent, compared to a GDP growth of about 3
percent. Preliminary estimates for 1985 indicate that while GDP grew by
about 2 percent industrial output actually declined by just under 1
percent.
21.        To respond fully to the improved macroeconomic environment, the
industrial sector would require reform in some key policy areas and quick
disbursing financial assistance to increase capacity utilization levels as
well as support for renovation and reorientation investments. Despite an
improving macroeconomic situation, the structural inefficiencies of the
sector, many of them caused by past industrial policies described in
paras. 32 to 40, remain. Briefly, part of the cause of industry's sluggish
performance relates to a long-standing sectoral environment which
discouraged adequate maintenance of the existing capital stock, incorrect
signals that oriented the sector towards the internal market and excessive
use of imported inputs, and to an unfavorable investment climate which
discouraged investments in productive areas and exports.
B. Structure of Industry
22.         Agro-industrial enterprises account for more than one half of
industrial value added in Zaire. The activities of these enterprises in-
clude palm oil production and processing, sugar processing, cotton ginning
and textile production, coffee drying, flour milling and rubber, wood and
tobacco processing.   Other subsectors include beverages, the assembly of
transport equipment, chemicals and petroleum refining.
23.       Medium and large-size firms (employing more than 100 workers) do-
minate most branches and account for almost 90 percent of total value-added
in the sector and over 80 percent of employment. Zaire's industry is still
closely linked with commerce as many enterprises continue to have subs-
tantial commercial operations.   Kinshasa, the capital city, remains the
main center for industry, with Lubumbashi, a major mining city, and
Kisangani, located near areas of significant agricultural production,
important secondary centers.
24.        Consumer goods account for over 70 percent of industrial output.
The high protection afforded to producers of final consumer goods, an over-
valued exchange rate over extended periods, and liberal exemptions from
tariffs and import taxes on imported raw materials, intermediate goods and
capital have discouraged both investment in, and the use of, domestic
inputs.   Particularly since the early  1980s,  there has  been  a rapid
development of assembly-type operations producing consumer durables. These
activities, which include the assembly of motorcars, motorcycles, air-
conditioners and electrical applianceF, are protected by a special customs
regime and, generally, they are not internationally competitive.



-8-
25.        Zaire's industrial output is sold mostly in the domestic market.
Coffee, wood,  rubber and  tea are the major processed products being
exported.   Agro-industrial and manufactured products account for only 12
percent of total exports, while exports of manufactures are estimated at
about five percent of the sector's output. Because manufacturers have had
little incentive to use domestic inputs, many enterprises are dependent
upon imported inputs.   Import substitution policies have, thus, reduced
Zaire's dependence on imported consumer goods but they have not helped the
country's exports, and have increased its reliance on imports of raw mate-
rials and intermediate goods.   According to a representative sample of
industrial enterprises, they imported an average of close to 50 percent of
their total raw material needs.   Although import statistics in Zaire are
poor, a rough estimate puts the 1984 imports of intermediate goods and raw
materials at about US$300 million or 25 percent of total imports.
26.       Until 1973, almost all major industrial enterprises were owned by
either private, foreign or locally-based expatriate interests.   In that
year, the Government nationalized or transferred to Zairian hands ownership
of about two-thirds of manufacturing firms.  In several cases, these firms
continued to be managed by their expatriate owners and managers. The take-
over measures, however, resulted in a serious deterioration in the rela-
tions between the private sector and the Government, a drastic fall in
investment, emigration of skilled managers, and a severe dislocation of the
distribution system of manufactured goods.
27.        As early as 1976, in the midst of enterprise mismanagement and
stagnation, the Government began returning nationalized enterprises to
their former owners. At present, ownership of the manufacturing sector is
back in private hands; of a total of about 1,000 industrial enterprises
there are only six public and 26 mixed-ownership firms. The six entirely
state-owned enterprises account for less than 10 percent of industrial
value added.  The mixed-ownership enterprises are somewhat more signifi-
cant, accounting for about 20 percent of value added, but the majority
private shareholders manage these enterprises.
C. The Financial System
28.       The financial sector in Zaire consists of the Central Bank (BDZ),
nine commercial banks and two development Banks: SOFIDE, a private insti-
tution with minority State participation, which lends to industry, agricul-
ture and transport, and the Agricultural Credit Bank, owned by the Govern-
ment. The non-bank financial sector includes insurance companies, postal
savings and a 30cial security fund.  The Central Bank is responsible for
regulating all the financial institutions in the country and for establish-
ing and administering national monetary and credit policies as well as
managing international reserves.
29.         Over the past few years, in an effort to reduce the inflation
rate, the Central Bank has progressively tightened credit to both the pri-
vate and public sectors. The most important instrumer-t used by the Central
Bank are credit ceilings arrived at on an annual basis in consultation with
the IMF. Commercial bank credit as a ratio to GDP is now about half of



-9-
what it was in 1978. In real terms, commercial bank credit to the private
sector declined by 50 percent in the six-year period ending December 1984.
In 1985, credit available to the private sector within the agreed ceilings
increased considerably at the expense of the public sector and a further
increase has been agreed with the IMF for 1986.
30.        The freeing of virtually all deposit and lending interest rates
(with the exception of loans to non-coffee agriculture) in September 1983,
and the more recent creation of a market for Treasury bills, has enhanced
the role of interest rates in mobilizing savings and allocating credit.
Beginning April 1984, these Treasury bills were sold to the non-bank public
at annual interest rates ranging from 40 to 45 percent. With the slowdown
in the rate of inflation, these rates are now between 30 and 35 percent.
In response to this competition, commercial bank deposit rates rose sharply
and have become positive (over 30 percent for term deposits) in sharp
contrast to earlier years.
31.          On the lending side, limited availability of credit has kept
interest rates for short term lending (including commissions) at about 35
to 40 percent despite a deceleration of the rate of inflation (down to
about 30 percent).  Commercial banks have recently started to lend for two
to three years,  financing mainly equipment  investments.    Although  the
Central Bank no longer allocates credit ceilings by sector, it does require
Central Bank approval of commercial bank medium term lending on a project
by project basis. The requirement for Central Bank approval of medium term
loans has been used to encourage such loans to agriculture though interest
rates there are lower than those prevailing in other sectors.
D. Industrial Policies Before 1983
32.         After the initial period of turmoil that followed independence,
the main objective of industrial policy in Zaire was to diversify the
structure of the economy through the encouragement of industry.   This
objective, particularly after the downturn of copper prices, was based on
the desire to counter the vulnerability of the economy to changes in
international prices of primary commodities and on the expectation that
industry would increase the pace of economic growth and provide employment
opportunities to the rapidly growing urban population.
33.          Import substitution offered the easiest prospects for rapid
industrial growth and the Government encouraged it through policies pro-
tecting domestic industrial production, mainly of finished consumer goods,
from external competition. Tariffs and a variety of import taxes, granted
virtually on request by OFIDA (the customs administration authority),
provided an early source of protection but, after 1975, strict import con-
trols and foreign exchange rationing were the main means of providing high
levels of protection to domestic industry.
34.        As indicated earlier (para. 5), a serious external imbalance has
persisted in Zaire since 1975. By mid-1983, the foreign exchange parallel
market rate stood at over five times the official rate. Throughout this
period, despite high nominal tariffs, the actual level of tariff protection



- 10 -
was low because import taxes and duties were calculated on imports valued
at the official exchange rate (i.e., at only a fraction of their real
cost).    The  major  constraint  to imports was  the shortage of foreign
exchange.  The overvalued exchange rate and the lack of competition from
abroAd consolidated the bias against exports and provided little incentive
fer efficiency.   As explained in Part III (para. 41), the exchange rate
regime was reformed in 1983 but the trade regime remains significantly
distorted.    Reducing  the  existing  anti-export  bias  and  encouraging
efficiency and competitiveness are major objectives of the trade regime
reform supported by the proposed operation.
35.       Two other main themes manifested themselves in Zaire's industrial
policy during the 1970s.   The first was to promote a zairinization of
industry.   In 1973 the Government undertook widespread nationalization of
economic activity.  In industry, putting the most important enterprises in
the hands of either the public sector or of Zairian nationals was the means
through which national control was to replace foreign interests in a
priority sector. By 1976, in view of the rapidly deteriorating performance
of the sector, this oolicy was reversed and nationalized firms were
gradually returned to their former owners.  This timely reversal kept the
country from developing a state-dominated industrial sector; in Zaire it is
now almost enLirely in private sector hands (para. 27).
36.        The second main theme of industrial policy was the Government's
adoption of an interventionist and regulatory attitude towards the
economy.   This was characterized by the introduction of complex admin-
istrative systems for allocating foreign exchange and import licences, the
strenghthening of price controls and, more generally, by a reduction in the
role of prices in allocating resources and a corresponding increase of
Government intervention. These practices have had a negative impact on the
structure and the performance of the industrial sector. The Government has
recently (late 1983) begun to change these policies and to move towards a
liberalized economy, as discussed in Part III of this report.
37.         In the area of price controls, the reform process had bet-n in
1981. Until that year, prices of most manufactured goods were set at the
producer, wholesale and retail levels by the Ministry of National Economy
and Industry (MNEI).   Producer prices were generally established on the
basis of production costs plus a 20 percent profit margin. The objective
of this policy was to moderate price increases in the face of the mounting
inflationary  pressures  of  the  late  1970s.    In the shortage-dominated
markets of this period, however, these controls were not effective; retail
black markets were widespread.   Since 1981, there has been a progressive
movement towards price decontrol, particularly of agricultural products.
Full price liberalization is a major objective of the proposed operation.
38.        Another example of the Government's regulatory attitude towards
the economy, where reform is only beginning now, is the complexity of the
export process.   In order to keep track of foreign exchange earnings,
exports require a license which can be obtained through a commercial bank
and which needs to be validated by the Central Bank. Some exports require
authorization from MNEI to ensure that local demand is being met before



- 11 -
exports of any given commodity are allowed.  The same Ministry has to give
formal approval to all exports, generally a formality which cat nonetheless
cause delays for exporters. In addition, all exports require authorization
from OZAC (Zairian Office of Control), an agency that is in charge of
verifying quality. A total of seventeen different steps currently have to
be taken by exporters prior to being able to export.   Most exports are
subject to an export duty (4 percent) and a statistical tax (1 percent) in
addition to the normal sales tax (6.75 percent).   All these factors have
had a negative impact on exports while, on the promotion side, little has
been done to assist actual or potential exporters.   Simplification of
export procedures and abolition of export taxes on industrial goods are
major objectives of the operation proposed in this report.
39.        The industrial sector has been subject to a growing tax burden.
In addition, manufacturing enterprises are subject to several parafiscal
charges. This situation has negatively affected the business environment,
and the competitiveness and investment behavior of many enterprises. Firms
have not invested to maintain and modernize their capital.   Inadequate
depreciation allowances during inflationary periods, which do not provide
sufficient funds for asset replacement and overstate profit subject to tax,
have  also  had  a  negative  impact  on  investment.    Under  the  proposed
operation the tax treatment of industrial enterprises would be improved.
40.       Industrial enterprises have also benefited from the provisions of
the Investment Code which was enacted in 1979 to "encourage the investment
of local and foreign capital, both private and public, in activities which
contribute to the economic and social development of the country".   The
Code offers a series of assurances and guarantees to foreign investors as
well as financial concessions to all investors. Financial concessions are
in the form of exemptions from customs duties and import taxes on machines,
planr and equipment and from income taxes up to five years. The nature and
extent of benefits, however, are decided upon by Government without appa-
rent consistency and without adequate eccnomic analysis of proposed pro-
jects.   Under the tax reform supported by the proposed operation most
incentives would be granted automatically through the tax laws.
PART III - THE GOVERNMENT ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM IN INDUSTRY
A. The Adjustment Process
Macroeconomic Adiustment
41.         The rapidly deteriorating economic situation in the early 1980s
prompted the Zairian Government to reconsider many of its past policies and
to conclude that sustained recovery of the economy required embarking on a
program of reforms. In September 1983, it. a major break with previous po-
licies, the Governr at, supported by an IMF stand-by agreement, adopted a
far-reaching stabilization and economic recovery program (para. 9).    As
part of this program, the Government devalued the zaire by about 500 per-
cent in local currency terms and established a floating exchange rate re-



- 12 -
gime.    Tight  aggregate  demand management  accompanied  the devaluation.
Other significant measures taken by the Zairian authorities included: li-
beralization of interest rates, freeing of agricultural prices, removal of
interregional trade restrictions, reduction of public sector employment and
liquidation or divestiture of some public enterprises.
42.        These measures have already begun to yield positive results.  In
1984, the budget deficit was reduced to 0.7 percent of GDP as compared to
2.1 percent in 1983 and 6.0 percent in 1982. Despite continued depressed
copper prices in 1984, GDP grew by about 2.8 percent compared to 1.2 per-
cent in 1983 and a decline of 2.2 percent in 1982, while the Kinshasa con-
sumer price index rose by only about 20 percent from December 1983 to
December 1984 as compared to 100 percent during the previous 12 months.
Exports grew by about 20 percent in nominal terms, imports rose in real
terms for the first time since 1980, while the overall current account
deficit contracted by about 25 percent.
43.       In 1985, further fiscal and monetary stabilization measures were
pursued in the context of the IMF program. A package of revenue enhance-
ments and expenditure reductions resulted in a budget surplus of about 1
percent of GDP.  Cautious credit and exchange rate policies reduced the
current account deficit to less than 2 percent of GDP compared to almost 5
percent in 1982. The economy, however, did not perform as well in 1985 as
it did in 1984. Because of weak export prices and a shortfall in crude oil
exports, export earnings grew by only 5 percent, about half the level
anticipated at the beginning of the year. With lower than expected export
earnings and a net capital outflow, imports bore the burden of the
adjustment and the zaire depreciated faster than in 1984. With the slower
expansion in imports, the 1985 GDP growth rate was 1.8 percent as compared
to 2.8 percent in 1984.
44.        In its efforts towards restoring financial and economic equili-
bria, Zaire has received some support from the international community.
Following the September 1983 Stand-by agreement for SDR 228 million, the
IMF granted Zaire a Compensatory Financing Facility for SDR 114.5 million
in December 1983. In the same month, the Paris Club agreed to reschedule
US$1,317 million of external debt. In April 1985, a further IMF Stand-by
agreement for SDR 162 million was approved and in May 1985 the Paris Club
agreed to reschedule Zaire's 1985 external debt in the amount of about
US$300 million. Agreement on a monthly payment schedule through April 1986
was also reached with the commercial bank creditors at a London Club
meeting.
45.        Since 1984, Zaire has been making monthly payments to Paris and
London Club creditors on schedule.   Furthermore,  following failure to
effect a program purchase earlier in that year, the 1985 IMF program is now
on track and the first performance review was successfully concluded in
September 1985.   Despite IMF assistance and the Paris and London Club
arrangements, Zaire's negative rasource transfer, including interest pay-
ments, for 1985 reached about US$175 million.   The 1985 slowdown and the
net capital outflow have prompted Zaire to adopt a strategy of continuing



- 13 -
its stabilization efforts while at the same time seeking increased balance
of payments assistance in support of policies that would reactivate the
productive sectors.
Sectoral Adjustment
46.        The experience of 1984-85 demonstrates that for stabilization to
be accompanied by recovery and followed by sustainable growth, a signifi-
cant supply response from the economy needs to be encouraged. Output from
existing efficient plants needs to increase while an environment conducive
to efficient import substitution and export production needs to be estab-
lished.   The Government's strategy for achieving these objectives in the
industrial sector involves the adoption of some key policy reforms (paras.
50 to 65) and the provision of foreign exchange for the importation of
industrial inputs.   In other sectors, the Government's strategy includes
plans for agricultural development, which give priority to increased food
production and export promotion, and the removal of transportation bottle-
necks.
47.       The industrial sector has received the Government's early atten-
tion for a number of reasons. First, because of existing underutilized in-
dustrial capacity there can be a quick output response.  Second, signifi-
cant distortions persist in the sector despite the recent policy reforms
implemented in the country. In the Government's view it is of high prio-
rity to complement recent macro-economic reforms with industrial sector po-
licy improvements designed to reduce excessive effective protection that
could lead to uneconomic final-touch investments, and to encourage competi-
tion and investments in export-oriented industries.   The policy package
supported by the Credits recommended in this report would have a positive
impact on Zaire's business environment, strengthen the balance oSf payments,
create employment opportunities, increase the availability of incentive
goods and encourage the use of domestic inputs.
48.       These policy improvements in the industrial sector, together with
the transfer of scarce external resources-both major features of this
operation-would facilitate and accelerate a supply response from industry
thereby increasing the chances of successful restructuring and the resump-
tion of sustainable growth. A quick response from industry is particularly
important because, if the courageous actions taken since 1983 are not seen
to result in a tangible economic rebound, the pace of reform could slow
down or even be reversed. The principal elements of the Government's poli-
cy reform package for industry are summarized in the following section.
B. Towards a New Industrial Strategy
49.       The creation of an appropriate macro-economic environment, inclu-
ding particularly a realistic exchange rate, represents a significant posi-
tive development for the industrial sector. Following the introduction of
those measures, the Government has given considerable attention to the need
to reform the policy framework of the industrial sector to bring it in line
with the overall liberalization of the economy and to enable the sector to
increase  its efficiency,  productivity  and export  orientation.    Major



- 14 -
aspects of the Government's new industrial policies are summarized below.
The reforms reflect the Government's growing recognition of the importance
of market forces, correct price signals aud private sector initiative.
50.        Trade Policies.  Following the September 1983 ex:hange rate re-
form, a new tariff regime was put in place.  The new tariff structure was
hastily designed, without regard to its implications for effective protec-
tion and industrial efficiency.   The levels of protection for most goods
produced in Zaire increased as a result of the combined changes in the fo-
reign exchange regime and in the tariff rates.  Final consumer goods are,
in general, strongly protected, with customs duties being especially high
on luxury goods.  Intermediate inputs and raw materials bear a low (fre-
quently zero) tariff when there are no domestic substitutes and a modest
tariff when domestic substitutes are available. This tariff structure re-
sults in substantial and uneven rates of effective protection, particularly
in cases of low domestic value added, reduces competition and provides a
powerful incentive for inefficient import substitution industries. Varia-
ble effective protection also directs resources to industrial activities
which may not correspond to Zaire's comparative advantage. The present ta-
riff structure also runs against the Government's expressed policy of
encouraging the use of domestic raw materials and the development of the
intermediate goods industry.
51.       The effective rates of protection estimated in 1985 for 26 repre-
sentative products confirm the presumption of high and variable rates of
protection.   The average effective protection for these products is over
300 percent, while the rates vary between -20 and +1800 percent. Effective
protection for automobile assembly, for example, is estimated at about 425
percent, for batteries at 400 percent, cement 170 percent, tires 260 per-
cent, soap 80 percent, beer 13 percent, plastics 500 percent and synthetic
fabrics about 1500 percent.
52.       To correct the distortions created by the present structure of
protection, the Government has decided, in the context of this operation,
to implement a specific program of tariff rationalization.   This program
would, over time, lower the level of protection offered to the manufactur-
ing sector and reduce the dispersion in protection rates that currently
exists.   This would be done by introducing a basic minimum duty on all
imports, including raw materials and intermediate goods, and by progress-
ively reducing tariffs on finished goods.
53.       Tne Government has already introduced a basic duty of 10 percent
on most imports. This includes all industrial inputs and equipment. For a
number of socially sensitive import categories, which include mass consump-
tion foodstuffs, fertilizers and pharmaceuticals, the initial minimum
tariff would be 5 percent. At the same time, tariffs on all goods--except
for textiles, cigarettes and automobiles with high displacement engines--
were lowered from their previous level, which ranged up to 170 percent, to
a maximum of 60 percent. For the three import lines cited in the previous
sentence, which accounted for only about three percent of recorded imports
in 1985, tariffs in excess of 60 percent would be temporarily kept. There
is no local production of large motorcars, while textile and cigarette



- 15 -
imports represent about 7 and 16 percent of domestic production respec-
tively. For textiles, which are currently enjoying a nominal protection of
about 240 percent, including the tariff equivalent of specific duties, the
maximum protection would be reduced to 100 percent by Credit effective-
ness. For cigarettes and large motorcars, the maximum tariffs would be 100
and 80 respectively.   At negotiations, it was agreed that the tariff on
cigarettes would be reduced to 60 percent, and an excise tax would be
introduced, in December 1986.   At that time, the Government would also
present to the Bank a plan for reducing tariff levels for textiles. As a
condition of the release of the proposed Credits' second tranche, a four-
year timetable of tariff reform would be agreed between the Government and
the Bank aiming at establishing maximum nominal rates of protection of
about 30 percent.
54.       The introduction of a basic duty will offset revenues foregone by
lowering maximum tariffs. Based on the present structure of imports, it is
estimated that the net impact on Government revenues resulting from the
proposed tariff changes would be a positive US$14 million for the year
1987.   Hence, the tariff reform program would not strain Zaire's fiscal
situation.
55.       There may be cases where the Government could consider it appro-
priate to tax imports at a rate higher than the 30 percent maximum. In the
cases where it is considered desirable to limit the consumption of luxury
goods, for example, excise taxes may be applied--equally to imported and
domestically-produced goods-so as not to provide incentives for the ine-
fficient domestic production of these luxuries.   Similarly, in cases of
"dumping", a temporary import surcharge may be necessary.   The need for
such a surcharge and its appropriate level would, however, be decided after
joint consultation and agreement between the Government and the Bank Group.
56.        The Government is taking measures to provide institutional sup-
port for these reforms. A tariff commission, composed of representatives
from the relevant economic ministries and the private sector has been
established, to implement the tariff reform measures outlined above. Fur-
thermore, a program of specific actions to improve the functioning of
OFIDA, the Customs Administration Authority, has already been launched.
This program includes incentives for customs officers through higher sala-
ries and participation in penalties, training, logistical support, improve-
ment of data-processing and better organization. This is being implemented
with technical assistance from the EEC (at a cost of about US$10 million).
The Government has also expressed its desire to use for this purpose
technical assistance funds available under the IDA financed SOFIDE VII
Project  (Cr.  1492-ZR  approved  in  FY84).    Finally,  under  a  proposed
Technical Assistance Project financed by IDA, the Ministry of National
Economy and Industry (MNEI) would be strengthened 'n the area of policy
formulation.
57.        Price Controls.  In an effort to defuse inflationary pressures
and guard against the possibility of excessive price increases because of
limited domestic and international competition, Zaire has used price
controls extensively.  This has had the unintended effect of aggravating



- 16 -
shortages  and  has  inflicted  financial  hardship  on enterprises.    The
Government has already liberalized prices in agriculture and has taken
steps to render the price system in energy and transport more responsive to
market forces.
58.       In industry, the Government had moved from a system that required
detailed justification and authorization from MNEI before a price increase
vwas put into effect, to a system of ex-post justification.   The ex-post
system, however, was not consistent with the Government's policy of
liberalizing the economy and could have hampered the process of relative
price adjustment and resource reallocation that are needed for the reform
of the exchange rate and tariff regimes to have a positive impact on the
economy.
59.        The Government, therefore, decided to discontinue the remaining
controls on the pricing of industrial goods.   This was done before the
negotiations  of  the proposed operation.    Staff  in the MNEI who were
involved in price regulation activities will be reassigned to other jobs
where  they will  be  responsible,  inter  alia,  for data  collection  and
processing and will provide advice to the Minister on industrial policy
issues.
60.        Export Promotion.  The encouragement of exports is a major ele-
ment of Zaire's strategy for eventually breaking out of the foreign ex-
change constraints holding back the recovery and longer term development of
the economy. Until recently, however, Government policies have created an
export environment characterized more by disincentives and administrative
obstacles than by encouragement. The export climate, however, has taken a
marked turn for the better.  The 1983 devaluation and the adoption of a
realistic market-determined exchange rate have begun to provide a potent
stimulus to exports.
61.        In the context of the proposed operation additional actions will
be taken to reduce the anti-export bias of the trade regime and to promote
exports and investments in export-oriented activities. In addition to the
reform of the tariff structure which will reduce the relative incentive to
produce for the domestic market, the Government has decided to abolish all
export duties and other taxes on manu'actured exports.   In practice this
means the removal of export taxes on all exports except copper, coffee,
crude oil and timber.   The symbolic impact of this action on Zaire's
business environment would be profound and the expected loss of fiscal
revenues would be negligible and far outweighed by the revenue increases
resulting from the tariff reform and from corporate taxes on expanding
export activities.   Furthermore, the Government will eliminate all the
administrative bottlenecks faced by exporters retaining only those checks
that are necessary for statistical purposes.   All these actions would be
taken as a condition of the proposed Credits' effectiveness.
62.        Tax Reform.  In addition to customs duties, protection to local
industry is provided through a sales tax on imports of final goods which is
higher on final imported goods than the tax on locally produced substi-
tutes. On the other hand, there are various other taxes, the proceeds of



- 17 -
which are earmarked to finance development projects in agriculture (Fonds
de Convention de Developpement - FCD), which apply to locally produced
manufactured goods but not to imported goods. On balance this combination
of taxes has tended to increase the level of protection to local industry.
The Government has decided to equalize the various taxes on domestic and
imported goods so that they apply uniformly to all goods in the same
category,   This would be done as a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed operation.
63.       The Government has also decided to rationalize the tax treatment
of industrial enterprises with a view towards eliminating excessive
taxation and confusing and overly complex regulations. Several studies are
underway to assess the incidence of current taxation practices on the
competitiveness and investment behavior of industrial enterprises.   These
studies are being undertaken under the IDA-financed SOFIDE VII Credit
(Cr.  1492-ZR, FY84).   A joint Bank/IMF mission which visited Zaire in
January/February 1986 has looked at a number of tax issues in Zaire
including the impact of taxation and depreciation allowance practices on
enterprises and is preparing recommendations for reform. These recommenda-
tions, as well as the findings of the SOFIDE studies, are expected to be
available in mid-1986.    In addition,  a Bank mission visited Zaire in
January 1986 to identify the major constraints to the development of the
private sector and is preparing recommendations for the improvement of the
business environment in Zaire.       The adoption of a tax reform program
satisfactory to the Bank would form part of the conditionality for the
release of the second tranche of the proposed Credits.
64.          Industrial PIP and the Private Sector.   Out of about 1,000
industrial enterprises in Zaire, six are 100 percent state-owned and 26
have mixed ownership.   In line with the Government' s recent posture of
limiting direct public sector involvement in the productive sectors, the
management of four of the wholly-owned enterprises has been placed in
private hands while one has been shat down. Enterprises whose ownership is
mixed are being managed by their private sector shareholders with no
government interference.
65.         An even more vivid illustration of the changing attitudes in
Zaire as to the relative roles of the public and private sector is the
Government's decision not to undertake any public sector investments in the
industrial sector. In line with this policy, there are currently no public
sector investments in industry under implementation.   As the Government
states in its Industrial Policy Declaration (Annex IV, para. 13) 'We expect
private sector initiative to play the key role in industrial investment
while the State confines itself to the provision and maintenance of infra-
structure, promotion of competition and reform of policies and programs
which may impede industrial development."   Bank Group staff will monitor
the continuation of this policy in the context of the overall supervision
of the proposed operation and will explore with the Government the
possibilities for further divestiture and/or efficiency improvements of
existing public enterprises in the industrial sector.



- 18 -
PALT IV - THE PROPOSED CREDITS
A. Past and Present Bank Support to Industry
66.         Bank involvement with Zaire's industrial sector has taken the
form of eight DFC operations through SOFIDE, the national development bank,
totalling US$161.0 million. The eighth SOFIDE Credit, for US$50 million,
was approved on April 29, 1986. The IFC was instrumental in establishing
SOFIDE in 1970 with an equity investment of US$750,000 (18 percent of the
initial share capital) and in 1984, it made a further capital subscription
of US$576,000 equivalent. The IFC has also been involved in an offshore
oil production project, a textile company, a hotel project and a cotton
farming operation. The first seven IDA Credits to SOPIDE, including the
seventh which became effective in January 1985, are already fully
committed.
67.        The main objectives of the Bank Group's support to SOFIDE have
been to develop a strong independent development finance institution and to
provide investment financing for the productive sectors in Zaire, including
manufacturing, transport, agroindustry and commercial agriculture. Despite
the difficult economic conditions prevailing since the mid-1970s, SOFIDE
has emerged as a respected and effective term lending institution with a
good project appraisal and supervision capability. IDA's continued support
has been critical to this achievement.
68.        Two project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) covering the first
three Credits to SOFIDE were prepared in 1976 and in 1982. The first PPAR
concluded that SOFIDE had succeeded in rapidly building up a competent
organization and in maintaining its independence in a difficult environ-
meat, but pointed out that there was scope for improved performance, parti-
cularly in appraisal and economic analysis of projects.  The second PPAR
covering the second and third Credits to SOFIDE (271-CK and 462-CK),
commented positively on the institution building achievement of both
projects but noted again the negative effects of the environment, parti-
cularly of inflation, on SOFIDE's profitability.
69.        This report concurred with the views of IDA staff that SOFIDE
needed to further strengthen supervision efforts and improve its organiza-
tional structure and accounting system to better cope with the increasing
volume and diversity of operations. SOFIDE moved rapidly to address these
issues by increasing supervision and instituting better cost controls, by
reorganizing its structure and by raising interest rates.  In connection
with the seventh Credit, SOFIDE made further efforts in improving arrears
collection and its supervision procedures.   Progress to date has been
satisfactory, but more remains to be done, particularly with regard to the
arrears situation. The eighth SOFIDE Credit (para. 66) aims at assisting
SOFIDE further in this area.
70.        Present Bank Group support to Zaire's industrial sector empha-
sizes reform  in several key areas of industrial policy.   As indicated
earlier, the performance of the industrial sector since 1975 has not been



- 19 -
satisfactory. The sector has been a burden to Zaire's balance of payments
and has not made the expected contribution to economic growth.   This has
been partly due to inappropriate sector policies. The Government has begun
to change these policies and the Bank Group lending strategy involves
(i) support for the design and lmplementation of further policy reform in
connection with the provision of quick-disbursing foreign exchange, and
(ii) investment financing for rehabilitation, modernization, expansion and
some new projects. The objective of this strategy is to assist the Govern-
ment in its efforts to ease the foreign exchange constraint, encourage a
supply-side response, accelerate the pace of productive investment, stimu-
late growth, increase competition and efficiency in industry, promote
exports and in rease employment.
71.       Support for the reactivation of industry through the provision of
quick-disbursing resources and policy reform--this operation'q fccus-would
be complemented by Bank Group support for investment expenditures for the
rehabilitation and reorientation of the industrial sector. The improving
macro-economic policy framework, together with returning private sector
confidence, has resulted in renewed investment activities in industry. The
strong investment demand for rehabilitation, modernization, expansion and
some greenfield projects, will be supported through the new line of credit
to SOFIDE.
B. Credit History and Rationale
72.        In September 1984, the Government of Zaire requested the Bank
Group to consider providing fast-disbursing foreign exchange in support of
its program of policy reform. Owing to the improved climate of cooperation
on economic management issues between Zaire and its major international
partners, and the forcefulness and determination with which the 1983
reforms and their aftermath were handled, a dialogue was initiated for the
preparation of a policy-based operation in the industrial sector.   In
addition, a Structural Adjustment Credit is currently being prepared and is
likely to focus, inter alia, on further improvements in the incentive
framework, and agriculture and public sector management issues.
73.        Since September 1984, staff at the Planning Ministry have been
developing a package of industrial policy reform and mobilizing support for
it in other economic ministries. In addition, consultants, financed under
the SOFIDE VII Credit (Cr. 1492-ZR), are carrying out a comprehensive study
of the incentive structure with emphasis on the trade regime and the
incidence of taxation and of current asset revaluation practices on the
competitiveness and investment behavior of industrial enterprises. In May
1985, a project preparation mission visited Zaire and carried out a review
of the state of the sector and au analysis of the issues that would form
the basis of the proposed operation.
74.          Based on the work described in the previous paragraph, the
proposed operation was appraised by an IDA mission in November 1985. Post
appraisal missions visited Zaire in February/March 1986 to continue
discussions on the policy package supported by the operation. Negotiations
were held in Washington from April 14 to 16.  The Zairian delegation was



- 20 -
headed by Mr. Sambwa Pida Mbagui, Minister of Planning.   A Credit and
Project  Summary is presented  at  the  beginning  of  this  report  and  a
Supplementary Data Sheet is provided in Annex III.
75.       The preparation of the proposed operation has served as an impor-
tant vehicle for intensifying the dialogue between the Zairian Government
and the Bank Group and for translating the analytical work done on indus-
trial sector issues into concrete far-reaching policy changes in the indus-
trial sector, following closely on the heels of important macroeconomic
reforms. These policy measures constitute significant steps towards trans-
forming Zaire's industrial sector Into a more competitive, efficient, open,
export-oriented contributor to the country's balance of payments and to the
growth  of  output  and  employment.    Further  policy  reforms  are  under
preparation in the context of a proposed Structural Adjustment Credit.
C. Credit Objectives
76.        The proposed operation is designed to stimulate the revival of
the industrial sector and to restore the sector to the position of an
efficient contributor to growth after years of contraction. Through policy
reforms and through an increase in the supply of foreign exchange to the
industrial sector, the proposed operation would bring about improvements in
the efficiency and capacity utilization of existing industrial enterprises
and encourage the development of high-priority, export-oriented and
efficient import substitution ventures.
77.        Specifically, the proposed policy measures would eliminate long-
standing distortions in the trade regime, create greater competition and
provide potent incentives to spur sectoral efficiency and the reorientation
of manufacturing from its traditional inward-looking bent toward the export
market. Price decontrol and an improvement in the tax treatment of enter-
prises would have a positive impact on the busines environment and would
strengthen the dynamism of the economy.          The availability of quick-
disbursing external resources would greatly ease the foreign exchange
constraint facing industry and spearhead the reactivation of the sector
through an increase in its capacity utilization.
78.       Achievement of the goals mentioned above is important for several
reasons.   As a result of the proposed operation, industrial enterprises
would either save or generate additional foreign exchange resources which
would improve the balance of payments situation and permit an expansion of
imports which, in 1984, were about half their 1974 level. This expansion
In foreign exchange availability would also afford Zaire a reasonable
chance to aspire to sustainable and diversified growth and reduce its
dependence on copper, allowing for improvement in per capita income and
consumption after a decade of continuous decline.
79.         Increased availability of basic industrial goods for the large
domestic market, produced by efficient import substitution industries,
would provide incentives to other sectors to raise their output. The poli-
cies supported by the proposed Credit would also stimulate local production
of intermediate goods and substitution of domestic for imported raw mate-
rials where feasible. Together with the flexible exchange rate regime and



- 21 -
the liberalization of the interest rate structure, the package would dis-
courage the use of imported capital in favor of local labor, thus helping
to alleviate Zaire's unemployment problems.
D. Project Description
80.        The objectives outlined in the preceeding section would be pur-
sued through a package of policy reforms and a fast-disbursing US$80
million operation to which IDA would contribute US$20 million and the
Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa US$60 million.    The proposed
Credits would finance imports of spare parts, raw materials and interme-
diate inputs. The beneficiaries of the proposed Credits would be manufac-
turing and agro-industrial firms. The main features of the policy reforms
which this operation supports were discussed in paras. 50 to 65 above and
are summarized in the form of a matrix on pages 21 (i) and (ii).   The
proposed Credits would be made available to the Government for draw down in
two equal tranches; the first tranche would be available upon effectiveness
and the second should be available about nine months later, i.e., in -he
second quarter of 1987.
Implementation Mechanism
81.         The proceeds of the Credits would be channelled to the final
beneficiaries through the commercial banks which would buy the foreign
exchange on behalf of their industrial clients at the prevailing exchange
rate. Thus, the proceeds of the Credits would increase the total amount of
foreign exchange available to the interbank market in Zaire. Disbursements
from the proposed Credits would be made only to reimburse imports of spare
parts, raw materials and intermediate goods for the industrial sector. The
Bank of Zaire would be responsible for the overall implementation of the
operation, including submission of withdrawal requests.
82.        Given the current tight liquidity position of the economy, not
all industrial enterprises would be able to buy the foreign exchange out of
their own funds. An increase in the amount of commercial bank short-term
credit available to the private sector would therefore be necessary. An
understanding has been reached with the Zairian authorities and with the
IMF that additional domestic credit necessury for enterprises to purchase
the foreign exchange made available through the proposed Credits would be
outside the commercial bank credit ceiliags agreed with the INF.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
83.       The proceeds of the Credits would be made available in two equal
tranches, upon effectiveness of the Credit Agreements and about nine months
thereafter. Disbursement of the second tranche would be conditional on:
(i) satisfactory progress in the implementation of the industrial policies
described in the Government's Declaration on Industrial Policy (Annex IV);
(ii) adoption of a four-year tariff reform program aimed at establishing
uniform rates of protection of about 30 percent; (iii) agreement on a
program of reform of the tax treatment of enterprises including:
(a) introduction of an adequate system of asset revaluation; (b) elimina-



ZAI4 - RfUSIRIAL SE=C   ADU W          DmUMS
SRWARY OF (OETHDW RERH4 ~POM
Oa EuS                       AS   AND REaM  AC[GN                          AC   FN EXAM                           T n                 =
I. Foreign Esi.he Fegims
Regain external balae by                  t towrds mduet determined    - Cakntim  with realistic exdhw    rate             - Catinm   mitoring.
stluattire exports ad               xcdhe rate throgh a devaluation          relim.
efficient inport substitu-         of about 500 percent in September
tion.                               1983 and the establishment a-d
maintenca  of a floatirg exdwge
rate regine.
II. Tariff Begl m
Increase the outward orien-        Tariffs on intenmediate inputs cur-   -  Introduce a minirn  basic tariff on msit       done
tatioti, onpetitiveness and        rently are at 0 percent or 3 per          imports of 10 percent; 5 percen on rest.
efficienc;y of the irlustrial      cent ard on finished goods up to       -  ler all tariffs to a mmdnn of 60             done
sector by reduciig the level        170 percent; result: high ad             percent, with three exceptiow.
and dispersion of effective        varied levels of effective protec-    - Establish a tariff oimdssion to frle-           done
protection.                        tion; excessive use of imported           ment tte tariff reform.
inputs; incentives for unecnnidc      -  Prepare faur-year tariff refomn prcgran       - Before release of
"final touch" type operations.           aimed at estahllahirg nm2dum. n minal           secmid tranche
rates of protection of about 30 percent.
III.  EKport Prmotion
Expand and diversify Zaire's       Exports are burened by export          - Abolish all export levies on all nnn-          - Before effectivenss
exports to generate badly          duties and sales taxes; exporters         traditional exports (includirg mamifactured
needed foreign eDdiaege.           are subject to aoolex adminis-            goods).
trative procedures while little has   -  Streamline coamplex "h     strative           - Before effectiveness
been dorm to promwte exports.            bottlerecks faced by exporters.



OBJECOVS                    SAIS AND RECIT AMalN                           ACrICN PEAM                             TDI
IV. Price Liberalization
Mbke the Zairima econmiy more      GOvernmnt has decontroUed all          -  onaplite the liberalizatim of irxktrial    - Before negotatin
respxwive to market forces           ricultural prices; prices of            goods prices by removirg reuirsnt for
so a  to increase its               petrol]1  products ard of trazuport      ae-pot prim controls.
efficiency, dynmasin and            incresed frequently to reflect
productivity.                       costs. Although ex-ente controls
were nrmved, Mc-pout price con-
tmols were retained for industrlal
goods.
V. IW Reform
Becourage investmnts by             Iniumtrial sector is subject to       -  F!qaliz sales taxes on goods in sa           - Before effectivemns
efficient industrial               variety of fiscal ard parafiscal          category whether Inported or of cbus-
enterprises and iqprove thi         diarges; somm sales taxes are            tic origin.
business evironient,               klgher on Inported than an dmmtic    - Baed an the results of SOFIEtHF                 - Before release of
soods ((CA) and sm the otber way         studies and Hank GrzW uissism, zprome          second traie
around (F(D); system of ssset            the tac regi  for indwtrial enterprLses,
revaluation ha  led to inadequate        includi        ate provisios for asset
depreciation allaii  d&uriwg              tevaluation ard ixwes   nt i mnmtivs grated
recent years of high inflation.          atcumatIcaliy throh the tac 1am.
VI. PIP aid the Private Sector
Ehcoursge private sector to        Qwenumnt's oauent policy with          -  Ctinum policy of aiceragL   private          - Oxtiwoadtorfrg
play active mle In ikus-            egard to lustrial PIP is to              sector lnvnemnt in industry  eile
trial sector and limit the         confine itself to provision of            explorirE possibilities for divestiture
role of Goverrnt.                  infrastrcture ad sond policy              and/or efficiency Inprovem*s of
fraumaok. while lettirg the              existirW  public enterpriss in industry.
private sector play a key role in
industrial 1nvest t.  Four of the
six wholly state-owned industrial
enterprises are under private
sector mdesn. nt ad one has been
shut donm.



- 22 -
tion of excessive parafiscal charges; and (c) introduction of investment
incentives to be granted automatically in the tax laws.
84.        Disbursement and procurement procedures should allow the rapid
utilization of the Credits' proceeds.   To that end, Special Accounts for
the proposed IDA and SFA Credits would be established in dollars with a
commercial bank of the Government's choice, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to IDA. At effectiveness, an initial deposit of US$5 million would
be made by IDA and US$15 million by the African Facility to their respec-
tive Special Accounts.   These accounts would be replenished regularly.
Initially, statements of expenditure would be used for all purchase orders
for less than US$50 thousand.   This limit would  be raised to US$100
thousand after the first two withdrawal applications. Statements of expen-
diture would be prepared by the Central Bank which would retain appropriate
documentation for review by IDA. These statements would be audited period-
ically. Full documentation would be required for all other expenditures.
Disbursements would cover 100 percent of the c.i.f. costs of eligible
imports.
85.         Industrial enterprises can be expected to procure their spare
parts, raw materials, and intermediate inputs in accordance with normal
commercial procedures from the most efficient sources and to minimize
costs.   Contracts for goods costing more than US$2.0 million would be
awarded on the basis of procedures that include iuternational competitive
bidding with simplified advertising and currency provisions. Expenditures
covered by the IDA Credit would be in accordance with IDA rules while
expenditures covered by the Africa Facility Credit would be in accordance
with the resolution establishing the facility, i.e. for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, any Part II member of IDA, Part I members who
have contributed to the Facility or any country which maintains Special
Joint Financing arrangements with IDA.
F. Expected Impact and Risks
86.        Zaire has made much progress since 1983 principally in the areas
of macroeconomic policy reform, the exchange rate regime, agricultural
pricing and domestic resource mobilization. Headway in restoring internal
and external balance has been significant. The policy package proposed in
this report would build on these reforms by deepening and broadening the
process of structural adjustment with a special emphasis on improving
industrial policies and the business environment.   This, in turn, should
lead to increased efficiency and an improved allocation of resources in the
economy.   To give two examples:   the policies which the Credits support
would reverse the excessive protection that has distorted the structure of
production and has led to discrimination against exports and to a low
competitiveness and efficiency of Zairian industry.   These reforms would
also complete the liberalization of industrial prices thus removing a
source of distortion and permitting supply to increase in areas where
demand calls for it.
87.           The increase in the availability of foreign exchange made
possible by these Credits is expected to permit the more cost competitive



- 23 -
industrial enterprises to increase their output and exports. These firms
can be expected to increase not only their industrial exports, which would
help the country diversify and increase its sources of foreign exchange,
but also their output of basic goods which should act as an incentive to
agricultural and urban producers.   While the quantitative impact of the
foreign exchange assistance is difficult to estimate with accuracy,
preliminary estimates indicate that the capacity utilization of existing
efficient enterprises will increase by about 20 percentage points, i.e.
from about 50 to about 70 percent.
88.          Beyond the immediate increase in output, resulting from the
foreign exchange support provided by the Credits, there will be significant
permanent increases in output and employment opportunities for the
country's growing labor force resulting from changes in incentives and the
improvements in the business environment brought about by the policy
reforms. Past dynamism of the industrial sector in Zaire shows that the
capacity of economic agents to react to opportunities is strong.
89.        Social Impact.  The implementation of sector adjustment policies
would entail some transitional social costs. These costs, however, should
be compared with the serious consequences of postponing the adjustment.
The introduction of measures designe:d to raise industrial efficiency could
result in some temporary increases in unemployment as labor transfers from
the less efficient to the expanding firms; and some possible reductions in
real wages of urban workers, especially employees of less competitive
firms. However, erosion of real income will be mitigated as inflation is
brought under control through the continuation of prudent stabilization
policies. The increases in capacity utilization and output resulting from
the Credits would also tend to offset upward pressure on prices, as price
controls are removed.  Over the medium term, there should be significant
gains in employment resulting from increases in private investment and
exports in the more competitive sectors.
90.       Overall income distribution is expected to improve under the pro-
posed program as a result of a movement of the internal terms of trade in
favor of the heretofore relatively unprotected agricultural sector.
Furthermore, the increased production of intermediate goods and greater
utilization of domestic raw materials, which is expected to result from the
proposed changes in the structure of protection, should strengthen the
backward linkages of the Zairian industry and thereby improve the welfare
of the lower income population in particular.   Finally the increase in
Government revenues expected to result from the proposed tariff reform
would permit the Government to provide increased social services.
91.        The Zairian Government's five-year plan puts increased emphasis
on social programs.    The Bank's lending program over the next few years
will support this initiative. This would include lending for projects in
education, water supply and urban upgrading.   In addition, the proposed
Structural Adjustment Credit will address the issue of real incomes in the
public sector.   These operations should help ease any possible negative
social impact associated with the adjustment process.



- 24 -
92.       Risks.  The main risk facing the project is that the Government's
commitment to the continuing adjustment process may waiver. The short-term
benefits and costs of Zaire's adjustment efforts, both at the macro and
sectoral levels, are already being felt but most of the expected medium and
longer-term benefits are not yet visible.   The risks of the adjustment,
therefore, relate to the uncertainties about the length and the difficulty
of the adjustment process and the related internal pressures to slow down
the pace of reform or even reverse it.
93.       Several factors limit this risk.  First, over the last few years
the Government has Implemented important and politically sensitive parts of
its stabilization and adjustment program demonstrating its commitment to
the reforms and its ability to execute them. Zaire, in other words, has a
credible track record.   Second, the prolonged and severe plight of the
industrial sector has helped build a consensus in Zaire around the need to
follow-up on macroeconomic reforms with well-designed sectoral reforms.
The Zairian authorities, in cooperation with Bank Group staff, have
designed such a package and it enjoys groring acceptance within Zaire.
94.        Third, the risk of reversing the adjustment process is signifi-
cantly reduced by the increased availability of the foreign exchange which
this operation would provide. This, in turn, will result In quick and tan-
gible benefits-in the form of rapid output increases and employment oppor-
tunities-thus adding momentum and credibility to the operation and its
policy package. Last, the Credits would be disbursed in two tranches, with
the release of each tranche linked to satisfactory implementation of agreed
policy reforms and compliance with the Government's newly adopted indus-
trial policy.   The tranching mechanism provides an additional safeguard
that the Government will stay the course. Bank staff will closely monitor
progress in execution of the measures and will use the tranching mechanism
to reinforce the ongoing dialogue on policy reform.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
95.        From 1969 to date, the Association has approved 40 IDA credits
totalling about US$650.0 million for agriculture, transport, development
finance company operations, water supply, power, petroleum technical assis-
tance and education projects.   The Associa.ion also approved a US$30
million African Facility Credit as a supplemental contribution to the Sixth
Highway  Project.    The Bank Group has  also  extended grants  totalling
US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning assistance pro-
jects in Zaire.
96.       In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100 million for the Gecamines
Mining Expansion Project, which was confinanced by the European Investment
Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which provided for special
repayment  arrangements  linked  to  the  project's  export  earnings.    A
Technical Assistance Credit was approved in 1983 to assist Gecamines with
its efforts to restructure its organization, improve its manpower and
prepare a long-term rehabilitation and expansion program.



- 25 -
97.        The IFC, which has a US$1.3 million equity participation in the
Societe Financibre de Developpement (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million
loan in 1978 for an offshore oil production project, and a US$230,000 loan
in 1982 for studies related to the development of an aluminium complex at
Banana. In 1985, IFC approved a US$6.25 million loan to, and a US$528,000
equity participation, in a textile company (SOTEXKI); a US$15.0 million
loan to the "Grands H8tels du Zaire"; and a US$100,000 equity participation
in a cotton farming operation. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA Credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1986.
98.          A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been
institution  building.    The  development  finance  company  (SOFIDE)  was
established in 1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport
agencies, ONATRA, Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ),
Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), REgie des Voies Maritimes (RVM) and Office
des Routes (OR), have received technical and financial assistance from the
Association, which also helped establish the National Livestock Development
Authority (ONDE).   In the case of Gecamines, the Bank loan originated a
dialogue, still ongoing and now supported by a technical assistance credit,
intended to define ways and means to strengthen the management, financial
position and planning of the company.
99.       Project Implementation has been satisfactory despite difficulties
resulting from the country's inadequate manpower and management capability
and, in recent years, from the economic crisis. In the last two or three
years, release of the required budgetary funds has been difficult period-
ically because of budgetary constraints.   Lack of foreign exchange  to
finance spare parts and fuel, and the deterioration of the transport net-
work and marketing system have resulted in severe supply problems for most
projects.    Recruiting  and  retaining  adequate  staff  have  also  been
difficult.
100.         In January 1980, the Bank, together with Zairian officials,
undertook an overall review of Bank Group projects which, for the first
time, provided an integrated view of Implementation problems; this resulted
in an acceleration and improvement in the utilization of Bank Group
assistance,  particularly in the agricultural sector.   A second overall
review, focussing on macro-economic and sectoral issues and on their impact
on project implementation, took place in May 1983 and assisted the Govern-
ment in formulating the important economic measures of September 1983
(para. 12).
101.          Sixteen credits and one loan have been totally disbursed.
Completion reports have been issued for all these projects.   Performance
Audit Reports have been issued for the first three SOFIDE and Highway
Projects, the River Transport Project, the Rail/River Project and the First
Education Project. The conclusion of the audit and completion reports was
that the Bank Group's impact on institution building had been mixed. With
the exception of SOFIDE, all other project entities had encountered
operating difficulties beyond their control as the economy deteriorated,
financial resources grew scarcer and the problems besetting the investment
environment were exacerbated by the Government:'s zairianization/radicali-
zation measures.



- 26 -
102.       Nonetheless, effective administrations had evolved in REGIDESO,
SOFIDE and the Office des Routes,  the highway agency.   Performance of
ONATRA, the port and river transport agency, had not improved as a result
of the first River Transport Project but did improve under the Rail/River
Project. More attention to institution building activities would have been
beneficial in the education sector; administrative weaknesses in the
Department of Education were cited as partly responsible for poor perform-
ance under the First Project and the inability to implement investment
components under the Second Education Project which resulted in cancella-
tion of US$18.8 million in February 1983.
103.      In the case of Gecamines, the delay in project implementation and
reorientation of project scope from expansion/rehabilitation to rehabilita-
tion only were not attributable to institutional weaknesses, but rather to
a combination of external forces (copper price decline, Shaba invasion) and
domestic economic crisis; nevertheless, positive results were achieved in
the areas of tax reform, marketing and management and are being continued
under a Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1336-ZR). Partly as a result of
the project, Gecamines' production has returned to near capacity level.
Bank Group support to all of the above mentioned entities is continuing
through follow-on projects designed to address the issues raised by the
completion and audit reports.
104.       The rate of disbursement to Zaire (about 20 percent for fiscal
years 1983-85) is average for the Eastern Africa Region. While disburse-
ment performance in general is satisfactory, difficulties have arisen in
several projects.   In the case of early credits for transport, education
and livestock (Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR), the lack of a strong
project entity caused delays.   Economic conditions were also a factor in
slowing implementation in instances where government counterpart funds were
not available (Third Highway Credit 660-ZR; Second Education, Credit
624-ZR) and where the investment environment experienced slow recovery in
the aftermath of abrupt nationalization (Fourth SOFIDE, Credit 710-ZR).
Implementation of ongoing projects should be less affected by the above
influences given the strengthening of institutions under subsequent
projects and efforts by the Government to improve budgetary support of
IDA-financed projects. As of December 31, 1985, the Bank Group's share of
Zaire's total debt disbursed and outstanding was about 13.0 percent.
105.      In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the
agriculture, industry/mining and transport sectors, in part through the
design and implementation of appropriate new policies. Initial efforts in
support of the energy sector include the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 1224-ZR) and the Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Power
Project (Cr. 1421-ZR). Our lending will continue to assist the development
of the agriculture sector, including policy reforms under the agricultural
component of a proposed Structural Adjustment Credit, and to support the
efficient functioning of the industrial, mining and transport sectors.
106.       A rehabilitation project for Gecamines and a SOFIDE project to
support rehabilitation and new investments in the productive sectors were



- 27 -
approved recently. In addition, further assistance will be considered for
the energy sector to develop power and to minimize the cost of supplying
petroleum products to the country. Preparation is underway for a technical
assistance project to improve investment planning, budgetary procedures,
and parastatal management, and for a navigation Improvement project.   In
addition to investment projects, a quick-disbursing Structural Adjustment
Credit is also under preparation to address cross-sectoral issues and pave
the way for medium-term recovery.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
107.      I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and that the proposed African
Facility Credit would comply with Resolution No. IDA 85-1 and recommend
that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credits.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 19, 1986
Washington, D. C.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
AR, s. *^ "Page  1 of  6
SOI- CAL  MINCATORS  ATA SCRTtT
X.                                                             AVSKAt       la GHU (US  WaITSO VISS  J
W"ST                     LuosT RHCUT ENTINAKTO lb
Rb'CCT r         lb   I1NGO  AFrICA      "IUDLE tINCU
ie4kb      Lin!. EMTUIATdk.          SOUTN Of SAHA         ttICA S. Ur SAHAtA
ARA (TOORUAIU SQ. M
70TAL                             2343.4      2345*4      2345.4
ACGRCULTURAL                       1*0.4       131.2       134.3
cU PER CAPTTA  U                        ..          ..        170.0             23U.S                    1063.3
TSIST C0NUSSOPTIIO MU CAr TA
(tILOGS or OIL  UUtrAET)            63.0        30.0       12.0               62.3                    SSI.5
onunum AS nL  STASIS
POPULATION.MD-11AR CNOTUSNUSI   17734.0    21633.0    29671.0
UR=A  POPULATN (2 Or TOTAL)         IS.7        21.6       35.0               20.1                     32.0
POPUIATION PROJCTIUNE
POPULATION IN WAR 2000 CELL)                              49.9
ITATIOAS  POPUATtON (ItLL)                               145.0
POPULATION hf15171                                         1.9
PEt SQ. M.                         7.6         9.1        ILI               33.2                     S5.1
PER SQ. 1I. ASt. LAND            121.3      163.1       134.2              112.3                    124.j
POPULATION S     t ACSTCURM 
0-14 US                          44.1        4.2         45.4              46.0                      45.6
15-4 U                            52.3       52.9        51.2               50.6                     51.5
45 AND ADOt                        2.9         2.3         3.2               2.9                      L7
Pt LA'TUa Gutf RATE CZ
TOTAL                              2.2         2.0         2.4               2.1                      2.9
URSA                               ..          5.2        7.3                6.4                      5.1
CElIU  SIRTT  RATZ (PER 1T1OS)      43.1        47.3        46.0              47.2                     '7.0
CRUOX tUTie  AT (Pm TH0U5)          24.3        20.3        15.3              17.5                      15.0
CROSS UWRODUCISN RATE                2.9         3.0         3.1               3.3                      3.2
AHtLY  PLANING
ACCPTOSE. ANNAL (7OUS0)
uSS c Of  AUMD  MN)                ..          ..          3.0               3.3                      6.4
IOOD AND NUTIII ON
INDIE Or FOOD MOD. Fa CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      o1.0      .01.O        35.0               33.3                      u2.9
?E CAPITA SmiL OF
CALORIES CI Of ShJtlROdCE )       94.0        LO.0      IOLO                37.7                     94.5
PROTINS (CAIAS PIM  DAT)          34.0        33.0       35.0               51.9                     55.4
or W    ANIMA. AND PULSZ         13.0        13.0        10.0 IC           18.7                     16.5
QISLD (A    1-6) l DATh RATE        32.J       27.2        20.0               23.1                     16.6
Ll! UECTc. AT 31U (TEARS)           42.9        45.3       30.7               *7.3                     52.0
LWANT HOtW. RATE CPU THrUS)        330.0      132.0       306.0              119.5                    106.N
ACCESS TO SArE MATEI (1101)
TOTAL                              ..         11.0        17.9              27.1                     42.4
URBAN                              ..        33.0        40.0               63.5                     67.5
URAL                               ..         4.0         5.0               1'.3                     35.3
ACCCSS Tn  rECIA DISPOSAL
(C or FOPUATTOS)
TOTAL                              ..          5.0        ..                26.5                    Z.9
URRAN                              ..         5.0         ..                65.4                     57.7
RURAL                                         5.0                           20.3                     20.7
POPULATION PER PAYSICIA          79320.0    30140.0    13940.0 Id          27901.7                  ll7S.7
PoP. PER NURSING PERSON           3510.0     2290.0      1310.0 7F          3308.4                   2459.3
POP. Zk bosWrTAL *0
TOTAL                            230.0       320.0      330.0 id          1273.6                    951.1
UtRU                              60.0      100.0       150.0 7e           42.2                     363.8
RURAL                            770.0      1070.0     2530.0 7r          32l2.5                   4371.9
ADMISSIONS PR HOSPITAL 5XD           ..         ..          ..                 ..                      27.2
XDOUSDIC
AVERSE SIZ OF NIOuSHOmW
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URtA                               ..         4.1
tlJUlL                             ..          ..         S.O...
AVERAGE 140. of PrzsNlOUR
TOTAL                              ..          ..
ma                                 ..         ..          .                  ..
RURNM- .                                      .            ..
o  DWELLINS  I   .LCT.
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URAN                               ..         ...
RUAL.                                          ..         ..                -.



ANNEX I
-29                                         Page 2 of 6
AIE                   - fiSOCIAL IIIICATARS DATA S ItE
ZAIRE                                *KPERENCK CIUPS (9LIUNT1  vaUEUm) 
UST                       CI? REtClET LgTSAjIt) &
:CCET           LOW imam3 AFRICA         MIDDLE 330A3
no16d-11    i97usrlNATtLb is 7      SOUTH or SAM"         AttICA S. 0o 541A11
A    L1?   EMUOLINWY RATIOS
13134Dm   TtAL.                   60.0        58.0        90.0 fr67.6                                 957
MALE                   56.0       110.0       104.0               7 77.6                   11.6
wmwL.                  32.0        *6.0       IJ5.n               54.9                      *L2
8010C3A S TOTAL                    3.0         9.0        23.0 o             13.5                     17.3
X&,                     4.n        13.0        33.0 7.            17.9                      25.0
1MwAL                   1.0         4.0        13.0 a              9.1                      14.8
vuCATiolL C or sEWo%ur)             26.5         9.6        10.0 /c            13.2                      5.9
PUIPZL-UACNUf RATO
PRID'                             40.0        43.0        3.UI              4 4.9                    41.1
C3001043t                         2D.O        20.0        21.0 Id            27.4                     25.5
FASSEIICE CA SITUOUSAWD POP          2.5         3.0         ..                 3.8                     20.8
RA510 RECLIVERSITMOUSAYDI POP        ..         29.1        36.6               55.8                    107.8
TV  ZCKlVUS/TKOUSAD POP              ..          0.3         0.4 If             2.6                     20.8
ZNESPAPRC ("DLALI LUEZAL
INTnRSM) CztojATIOI
PER 10SAI5D POPULATIOS              1.2         9.2         1.6                5.0                     16.4
CfIA AUNUAL ATTWDIIICCFITA           0.1         0.1         ..                 0.5                      0.4
TOMAL UA.DR PORCE (TOU5)          8216.0      9465.0    12616.0
TDIALE (PERCENT)                  46.4        *4.5        42.2               34.2                     3b.2
LCZICUL!031 (PERCENT)             83.0        79.0        75.0 /f            77.5                     54.5
13052T3Y  FERC=L'T)                9.0        11.0        13.0 7f             9.7                     1s.3
PARTICIPATIOW RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             46.3        43.7        39.9               39.3                     36.6
PAtE                              51.9        49.5        47.3               50.9                     47.1
PENALE                            41.2        38.0        33.*               26.1                     27.2
0sc0maC DCMrnueCw  RAniO             1.0         1.1         1.2                1.3                      1.3
IMIIN DIS219R011M
PErCENT OFr rPVA   =0Cm
-RCEVED Dr
uIGw  St OF 3052L0                 ......
3101252 202 OF flOUSU0D1S          ..
LOWES? 200 W HOUS                  .......
LOUIS? 402 OF HousEOLUOS           ..
nm T STU
ICSTDCATD ABSOLUTE POWVER 110032
LEUL CUSS PER CAPITA)
vimM                               ..          ..          ..               165.5                    590.7
RULAL                              ..          ..          ..               95.0                     275.3
ZSTWIATED RELATIVE POrZRrf ISCOHE
L     CUSS FEZ CI7ITA)
0331A                              ..          ..          ..               113.1                    545.6
&ORAL                              ..          ..         63.0 /            67.6                     201.1
RSTD6AM   POP. YUYW 3SSOLUTIE
POYERTY InCo,g IE vu (2)
OMANS                              ..          ..          ..               36.6
DRUAL                              ..          ..          ..                61.8
NOT AVALILA
MOT APPLICNAME
NOTZS
I.  The SrCUp average for each ind1tator are pOpU1ation-mCshted aritb etic mane. rCver ge of cumntries
*oOng the IMiCators depends oO availability of data end Is not adfor .
/b  Unless othezvsL  noted,  Doata for 1960" refer to any year bhtween 195b and 1961; Dots for 1970" beween
1969 and 1971; end date fOr ONest Recent Utimte  between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1977;  id 1979;  /A 1978;  /f 1980.
JUlM. 1985



-30-                                        ANNEX I
PAgP  ' of A
DEFINY1OS OF SOCIAL INDICAT0S
Notoc Athough tdabre drWn from soucs galy judd th mat autboritative and r , ithould bso e od that tbey may not be lnteratlnaliy
compare  because it he lak of sndadizd defintm  nd concepts Mud by different countrie in colcting the dua. The data amre nonethels. umul to
descibe aidef orftudeialt trn  d  charateize etalmAJordifferene d_betwn countris
The ene sromps re (I) a  -  cnry pw p of tbe subject country and (2) a country  up with bomwt higher ave Incom than the country
poppofdthesubject cntry(xcpt for 'Hig InrcomeOHpmoterw pgomp where"Middl Income North Afric and Middle Est  cosen beaus ofstr
sodocuatl sairdt)cb Inta referene oSmp data tae svap ae population weighted anthmetic nmens for each indicator and son  only when majority
tab, countrie in a pomp hs dsta for tat Indir. Siu  a coverage of countries among the indicar depends on the availailty ordata ad Inot uniform,
caution mut bee_rcisd In rdatg averagene Inditdko to another Ths averas arm only usdW in compaing the value fone indicator ta time among
a rounmy and reierec pomp.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                         CrueABrt Rate (perthmusad)-Numbcr of live blths in the year
Toal-Total surfacc arue comprising land area and nband watrs;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1953 data-   Crude Death Rte (per thoutnd)-Number or deaths in the year
Agetultwal-Estimatc of agricultural area used temporarily or   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gre  Repredt Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
le fallow, 1960, 1970 and 1932 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive period if she expeiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960, 1970, and 1983.
market prims, calculated by same convrsion method as World    pe, Pfr- Awprs. Aal (thousaid4-Annual num-
Bak Atlas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                        ebr of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.    Fmil Plmatuig-Usem (perce  ofmrrid wen)-The percen-
petrokumn. natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geothermal dec-  tage of married vwmen of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960, 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1932 data.                                                    of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49, although for
some countnies contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                               groups.
ToealPepatimo, Mid-VYe  (thstJads)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Urbn  Jp.lad   (percent of xetalr-Ratio Of urban to total      n    ePr ction Per Capia (169- 7 - )NJ-lndex of per
f toal)-atioof rbanto ttal capita annual production of all food commnodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  catudes aninal fecd and seed for agriculture. Food commduities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.    incude primary conmmodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
fbopufves heci's                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popraaron in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  exduded); they comprise crals, root crops. pulscs, oil seeds.
made for each economy separatdy. Starting with information on  vegetables, fruits, nuts, sugarcaae and sugar beets livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products Aggregate production of ach country is based
international migration in the base yr 19S0. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; '961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptons until the population becam  stationry.              P  Capita SupYp ofCalois (pren Ofreqfdn       )-Comput-
Ssaitary poptdation-ls one in which age- arni sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
talky rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specfic  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacment klv  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reprnduction rate= 1). In such a populaion. the birth rate is  exdudc animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is a.   food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing IO percet for
rate to replacement level.                                    waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momeumrn-ls the tendency for population growth to  Per Capita Suply oef hoed. (gram per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  percapita net supply offood per day. Net supply offood is defined
achieved, that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reaied  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grains of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assunption that fertility remains at replace-  should be aninal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment kve from year t onward. 198S data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams or aninal protein as an
Ptp las DsDaiy                                                average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1933 data.              Per Capta heroein Supply ben Animad d Poke-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agriczdiural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animalsand pulses in grams perday; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970, and 1932 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Populati  Age Strctur (percent),-Children (0-14 years). work-  Child (ages 1-4) Death Rate (per thossaad)-Number of deaths of
ing age (l5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 14 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
PAplahtn Growh Rate (pzrcet)-rorea--Annual growth rates of    from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
Populaton Growth Rate (percentl-uraan-Annual growth rates     Life Expectay at Birth (year)-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197043 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-31-                                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the tim oror its birth weo stay the s    throughout its ife;  Phpfl-eacher Ratio - prby,o ad scomdary-Total students en
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                     roled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbes of
Ah*   MesSy Ae (per dhaumd)-Number of infnts who die    teache  in the corrponding levels.
befo  rach   one year oraw per thousnd live births in a given
yr, 1960, 1970 ad 1983 dat.                                   CONSUM.TION
Awa to 5*  Eib  (pren of rSmfe)-114 .th, &W                    sar CAn C (pe dhard pepualsdo.)-Ptsser car comn-
red-Number of people (total, stan, ad rural) with ronable     prime motor ors mating les than eight peors: excludes ambul-
access to safe water apply (icludes tratd  uface uaters or    ances, heases and milituy vhicles.
unated but uncotaminatd water such a that from protected  R AiA mwmn  (pe hmanadpopwludewu-Ali types of receiver
bo.rdwle spr    nd huntay wdls) as percentages of their  pec-  for rado broadcsts to pneral public per thousand of population;
tive populaios. In an urban aea a public fountain or stndpost  exclude un-licensed receiver in countries and in year when
located not more then 20D meten from a  ue may be cosdered   g     tion or radio sets was in effect; data for r-et year my
a being within rsoable acc  or t   ho. In nual aes            not be cnpubl sice mo  wutries aolibd liceming.
reasonable ae would imply that the housewife or members orthe
housihold do not have to spend a dispoportionte pan of the day  TRecO r(per             Ile Vreceivenror broadcast
in feching the famil's water needs                            to g       public per thousand populson excludes unlicensed TV
Aces o Ewe D         al (pfe   f pp s s)-aL, ra , reiver in ctie5 and in yr when etion of TV nu w-
ad saul-Number of people (totalL urbam, and rural) served by  in
excreta diposl as percentages of their respective populations.  Ahwpw  C         (per t_     pFh) ws the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the colection and dispoal, with or  age ciculadon of 'daily genera intere  newspaper," defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  peodia publication devoted prinmaily to recording genra news.
borne systms or the u-c of pit privies and similar installationL  It is considered to be "daiy" if it apper at least four dmes a weeL
P.pufaim  per Phyoida-ftpulation divided by number of prac-   Csms A _uud A tsedm.  pr Cqlsa jer Yea-Based on the
tisinrgphysiians qualified from a medical school at universityved  number of tickets sold during the year. including admission to
Ptp.k.m pfr Nwavq Piersom-pulation divided by number of       drive-in cnems and mobile units.
practicig male and female gmduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practcal nurses and nursing auxiliarie LsBOR FORCE
u-sri  per Ha$sa Bed-taa, aria, an rwd-lbopulation           Tad Lakr Fac (thoaad)-Economically active persons, in-
(total, uban, and  ural) divided by tbeir rspective nunber of  chuding arned forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,
h-ospqt be avawilable inpubic and pnvte. meneaDd n mdse d     students, etc., covenfg population of all age  Definitions in
hospit  and rledabitain pi     Hoapitat l are espablizhs      various counties are not compable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pemanedy staffed by at kast one physician. EstabliDmets prov-  Feat (percaut)-Ferale labor force as percentage of tota labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
howeve incude health and medil centers not permaneldy staffed  Ag _kan (percea)-Labor force in fanning, foestry. huntig
by a physin (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife, etc.)  and fishing as perentage or total labor fons 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient acmmodadon and provide a linited range  data.
Of  dical facilities                                          ladsy (pereentf-Labor force in mining, construction, manu-
Ad4msou per Hiapl Red-Total number of admissions to or        facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
dischgs from hospitals divided by the number of beds         force; 196D, 1970 and 1980 data.
IWddpo 4    twe (jerwr)-5.54 mrn. udfesmle-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates a=r cornputed as total male, and fnkale labor force
Avenge She of HeouvM  (pso  per I   IES&d)-tsX. wham,         as percentages of total, male and female populationf ar ages
aired-A housedold consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively, 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on lO's
living quarters and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participadon rates reecting ag-sex structure oftbe population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources
Avrge Muser of P1o. per Reom-totaL who, ad rural-             Eccuenmi DepedAcy RaW-Ratio of population under 15, and
Average number of persons per room in al urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectivdy. Dwdlings excdude
non-permanent stuctures and unoccupied parts                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pgceutae of Deg wis Elesddty-reeal, whom, ad ruram-           Pecmoge of Toad Dipsaek fircome (bee in cah a_d kiwi)-
Conventional dwelings with ekctricity in living quarter as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respctivly.         hold incowe.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Afasud   E inrae  Rinos                                       lhe folowing estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
P)tzary scwo - total, maek aid femal-Gross total male and    kvels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
feale e _nroment of all ages at the primary levcl as percentages of  EtisutedAhbselte Porery l1mm Lev  (1$per capita-ehun
repctive prmy school-age popuations While many countries       d rul-Absolute poverty income levd is that income levd
consider prinary school age to be 6-11 years others do not The  below which a minimal nutritionaly adequate diet plus essential
diffeences in country pracices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflted in the ratios gives. For some countnes with universl     Esimted Relaiv Poverty lIce Levd (USS per capir)-ehon
educaion, gross enrolment may exceed 100 pecment since somne  ad rea-Rural reative poverty income levd is one-third of
pupis are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban kvel is
age.                                                         derived from the rural level with adjustment for higber cost of
Secondary scho  - toad. mae and femal-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at kast four years of approwed pri-  Es'maefd Popsi.u Bew Ahselute Poverty Ji. Le Lewd (per-
mary instuction. provides general vocational, or teacher training  cear,t-whair - ru- PNrcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age correspond-  who are -absolute poor."
a    coueses are genea  excluded.
Vocaal fEnolmeri (perct of scdocy)-Vocational institu-                  Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tons include tecbicaL industriaL or other progrms which opemte       Economic Analysis and Projctions Dqerment
independendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



-32-
A.',NEX I
Page 5 of 6
ZAIRE Economic Indicators
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Annual growth Rates  (7)
US I Millions              As percent of COP                 at 1980 prices
1984                           1934                 1983         1934          1986
COP Market Prices                     4982.2                        IN6.1                 0.3           2.3           2.5
COP Factor Cost                       4872.6                         97.8                 1.4           3.1           2.5
Agriculture                        15680.4                        32.3                 2.3           3.6           3.0
Industry                           1765.6                         36.0                 4.1           2.6           1.6
Other                              1667.1                         32.0                -0.9           3.8          3.1
Not Export  of CNFS                      8.2                          4.1
Import of CNFS                     2631.3                         36.9                  ..          8.9           2.0
Export of CNFS                     2040.0                         41.0                               4.7          -1.3
Cross Fixed Investment                 811.6                         16.2                  ..           6.6          -3.3
Consumption                           4162.4                         77.6                  ..           3.0           4.8
Gross Domestic Savingu                 819.8                         22.5                  ..           1.0          -0.9
Cross National  Saving                 483.3                         12.0                  ..         -27.8           2.7
PUBLIC FINANCE (Central Government)
Zaire Mill ions                                a of GOP
1983           1984         1985                 1983         1984          198-
Current revenues                       10998          25994         41350                11.4          14.4          17.2
Current expenditures                   11459          26193         37654                11.9          14.6          1S.7
Current def;cit                         -461           -199          3696                -6.6          -6.1           1.6
Capital expenditures                     647           1019           956                -1.1          -0.7           1.1
Overall deficit                        -1109          -1218          2740                -1.1          -0.7           1.1
MaNEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                1980           1981          1982                :983          1984          198S
Money and Quasi-money                 3367.3         4644.9        ao67.0               l'Q02         18792         23926
Bank credit to public sector          2329.4         37B3.5        7S88.0               10252         13396         14847
Bank credit to private sect.          1061.1         1435.4        2686.0                3897          5947          9387
Money I Quasi-money (% GDP)             11.7           11.7          16.5                14.6          10.4          16.6
Corsumor Price Index :975=18W         1313.3         1813.1        2487.9              4375.3       8654.8         3651.3
Annual percertaga changes
Consumer Price Index                       ..          38.1          37.2                76.0          52.1          30.0
Bank credit to public sec.                 ..          62.4         103.6                30.0          30.7          10.8
Bank credit to private see.                ..          36.6          85.7                46.2          62.6          62.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in th;s table are at the averagex oxcsangs rae.
prevaling in the period covered.



_33-                                     ANEX I
Page -6 of 6
ZAIRE: Economic Ind;cators
UALANCE Of PAYMENTS
U5S  Millions
1936           1981           1982            19U3           1934           1935
Exports of Good- A Services               2171.4          1772.3         1d68.2         1775.6          2006.0         20ee.3
of which merchandise(FOB)               2143.6         1499.8          1476.8         1697.3         1893.2          1889.0
Imports of Goods & Services               2485.9         2278.1          2036.9         1941.3          1877.8         l885.9
of which Morchandise(FOB)               1762.0         1636.7          1436.3         1329.3         1321.2          1370.4
Private transfers (not)                    -79.4            -3.6           -S.8             3.2          -91.2          -61.1
Current Account Balance
(before rescheduling)                  -291.6         -663.7         -590.6          -349.6         -349.6         -366.3
(after rescheduling)                   -291.5         -468.1          -547.6         -231.7         -18S.0          -212.2
Official Grants   (not)                    266.8           247.6          166.1          173.2           174.3          169.2
Public Capital    (not)                    -22.1          -168.6         -178.8         -196.7          -296.2         -298.3
Priv.Capittal(nt),Err.& Omiss.              68.6            31.8           91.6          -16.6           102.6          174.2
SDR Allocation                              20.8            18.9           17.7            o.6             6.6            9.0
Increrse (-)in Int. Reserves               -48.2           113.2           35.3           -8.6            33.8           -2.0
Reduction t-) in Arrears                 -1347.1           129.7          380.9         -613.1           -75.9          -61.1
Other Financing                           1629.6           479.7          244.0         1082.9          594.3           477.S
of which Debt Rescheduling               1612.6           371.4          150.1          971.7          477.7           411.4
EXCHANGE RATE
Zas r-esU55                  AVG. EXCH. RATATc (Z/U5S)
Aug.24,1979-Feb. 22,1980                     2.1                 1980                       2.8
Feb.22,1989-June 19,1981                     3.1                 1981                      4.4
June.19,1981-Septem.12,1983                  6.6                 1982                      5.9
September 12,1983 (1]                       26.9                 1983                     12.9
February 24,1984                            33.0                 1984                     36.1
1986                     47.6
EXTERNAL DEBT (Outstanding Dec. 1985,Will.U55)
Medium Long Term        6386.
1980           1981           19B2            1983-          1984           1985
Debt service ratio                          22.7            21.9           13.8           14.3            28.4           27.7
MERCHANDISE EXPORT (M; II .USs)             1980            1981           1982           1983            1964         19S5
Copper                                    1032.5           758.6          790.r          781.2          675.5           197.8
Cobalt                                     377.3           158.3          182.8          121.4          226.6           249.0
Dimonds                                    113.6            77.2           76.2          138.2          220.4           222.0
Other Metals                               113.1          115.7            84.2          127.2          166.6            76.0
Coffee                                     163.1           111.8         15.6           116.5          212.2           :88.0
Crude oil                                  226.1          273.5           274.3          236.6          322.9           319.0
Other                                      167.8           112.9          127.2          116.6          128.2           148.0
Marketing Cost & Adjustments               -38.9         -120.2          -163.6          -49.0             2.1            5.0
Total exports FOS                         2143.8          1499.9         1476.8         1597.3         1893.2          1889.0
[1] On September 12,1983 Zaire introduced a transitional dual exchange rate reg;is
consisting of an official rate and a free market rate ,shown in parentheses above.
Tho two rates were unified on February 24,1984; hencoforth the rate is fluctuating
and its market price determined in the interbank market were Commercial Banks
can buy and soll for-ign exchange and the Bank of Zaire can intervene to
rogulate the market.



-34-                            AN= nI
Pae 1 of 2
SEAMS CE BEA GeR OAEInas IN ZAR
A. STAME OF E lBaK W AND A CREDITS (As of MarEh 31, 1986)
Lom or
CLredit   Year                                            hIm2mt in US$ Millim
Nubier Rqn         Borrc                             Bark      MA, I/   UkdIsbursed
Prior
to Jiune  Ccco       Transport              91.58 Z
1960     Otrc          r
Ooe lom FuLy DIsbuIrsed                               100.00
SIxteen Credits Fblly Disbirsed                                200.34
796     1978      ZAIRE      OL Pala                            8.48          5.16
902     1979      ZAIRE      Railways                          20.00          3.99
998     1980      ZAIRE      FYfth Dev. Finance                18.50          1.20
1040     1980      ZAIRE      9ulk,L1der Maize                  11.00         4.18
1089     1981      ZAIRE      1wlld  N 1ogo Sugar               26.40          1.28
1152     1981      ZAIRE      Kirig-Ywilu Tehnical Assistance  2.90           0.13
1180     1982      ZAIRE      MMThA        zatdewizatiJo        26.00        12.83
1224     :982      ZAIEE      aleba Ebwr Systen c      ita-nt-inn  19.00      3.73
1241     1982      ZAIRE      Water Supply                      18.00         3.45
1244     1982      ZAIRE      Agriculture T.A&                   5.00         1.87
1264     1982      ZAI        Second Cotton                     11.30         9.85
1273     1982      ZAIRE      Sixth DFC                         21.50         4.56
1290     1982      ZAIRE      Higtway V                         43.50         10.85
1325     1983      ZAIRe      North East Rural DIvelopment      13.00         9.58
1335     1983      ZAIRE      Parts R&hablit-arln               25.00        18.33
1336     1983      ZAIRE      Gesmdr  T.L                        7.00         3.93
1409     1983      ZAIRE      Petrolenm Sector T.A.              4.50         3.49
1421     1984      ZAIRE      Rzizi II HydrelectXric            15.00         10.78
1475     1984      ZAIRE      Railways II                       26.00        25.95
1492f    1984      ZAIRE      Seventh DFC                       36.00r       23.19
1519     1984      ZARE       Fducatim Tel mical Assistance      9.00         6.38
1540     1985      ZAIRE      dubza Agprcltuzal IXwDpe:Inuent    12.5D       12.47
1609     1925      ZAIRE      seed                              14.90        14.90
A006 3/  1986      ZAIEE      Sixth Higl.ay                     30.00         3D.00
1608     1986      ZAIRE      Sixth Eigbway                     55.00        55.00
Total (less cancel 7lAions):                191.58   679.82        277.08
- of biich has been repaid                  144.98     3.48
Total mDr outstanding:                      46.6    676.34
Amimat sold:                     54.47
of uhich has been repaid       54.47
Total DmO held by  armc and IIk 1/          46.60   676.34
Total Undisbursed:                           0.0    277.08         277.08
1/ US dollar amouts for credits 1089-2R and amDurds are crmpited at the rate of Credit
r.gtiaiawdates.
2/ QGararteed by the Kirgidn of BeLgiLno
3/ Sigped but not yat effective.



Sl  >  5; J f i f 'b w~-    *                                   l                 - - 0'-, ew h-
l:hi.; l: l; dl~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ii t    FItWiIii i                                                       I 
-~C                  Tt IM U 3 CO                IOUa
o          w          b     |                                               I    gi, |
-     0   ,I          I  0            0      0     0         gXA
s~~~ o               '            0% o   '    CO               
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-36-                           ANNEX III
ZAIRE
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDITS
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
I.    Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Identification                   February 1985
(b) Project Preparation              May 1985
(c) Appraisal Mission                November 1985
(d) Negotiations                     April 1986
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness   August 1986
II.   Actions to be Taken Before Credit Effectiveness
(a) Put into effect a minimum import tariff of 10 percent and a
maximum import tariff of 60 percent (para. 53).
(b) Equalize sales taxes of goods in same category whether
imported or of domestic origin (pars. 62).
(c) Abolish all export taxes on industrial goods (pars. 61).
Cd) Eliminate administrative bottlenecks faced by exporters
(para. 61).
III.   Actions  to be taken before  the release  of  the second tranche
(a) Agree on a four-year tariff reform program aimed at
establishing maximum nominal rates of about 30 percent
(para. 53).
(b) Based on results of SOFIDE/IMF studies agree on a program
for rationalizing the tax treatment of enterprises including
elimination of arbitrary taxes, adequate provision for asset
revaluation and appropriate investment incentives provided
through the tax laws (para. 63).
(c) Make adequate progress in the implementation of the indus-
trial policies described in the Government's Declaration. on
Industrial Policy (Annex IV).
IV.   Special Feature
Gowernment Industrial Policy Declaration (Annex IV).



-37-                          ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
ZAIRE
INDUSTRIAL POLICY DECLARATION
(Translation of the original in French)
(Letter signed by the Prime Minister of Zaire)
General Situation
1.          From 1975 to 1983, Zaire experienced grave economic difficul-
ties:    serious  underutilization  of productive capacity, public sector
deficits, rapid inflation, an overvalued exchange rate, a decline in per
capita income and deterioration of domestic and external confidence. Real
GDP declined in every year from 1974 to 1982 except 1981.  In 1982 Zaire
ran into very serious difficulties in servicing its external debt: arrears
by that year's end stood at US$940 million.
Stabilization Program
2.         In 1983 the Executive Council adopted new measures to reform the
exchange system, reduce the budget deficit and deregulate the price
system. The objectives were to regain domestic and external equilibrium,
bring down inflation and restore confidence both at home and abroad.
3.         In September 1983, supported by an IMF stand-by arrangement, the
Executive Council devalued the zaire by 77.5Z relative to the SDR and esta-
blished an inter-bank floating exchange rate market. Tight demand manage-
ment, comprising budgetary discipline and credit ceilings, accompanied the
devaluation and permitted the exchange rate to stabilize.
4.         Tiis reform was accompanied by liberalization and simplification
of the exchange and foreign trade regulations. The Executive Council also
adopted other important measures, such as liberalization of the interest
rate and agricultural producer price structures, removal of inter-regional
trade restrictions, reduction of public-sector employment, and liquidation
or divestiture of some public enterprises.
Impact of the Policy Measures
.,
5.           These measures began to yield positive results in 1984.  The
budget deficit has been reduced from 6.0% of GDP in 1982 to 0.7% in 1984.
Monetary developments in 1984 were characterized by a substantial reduction
in the growth of the money and quasi-money supply from 74% in 1983 to 34%
in 1984.   Due mainly to a 22% increase in export receipts,  the trade
balance surplus rose by SDR 212 million in 1984 relative to 1983, while the
current account deficit declined by about 25Z, to 5Z of GDP. The inflation
rate has been sharply reduced: retail prices rose by only 20% between
December 1983 and December 1984, as compared to over 100% in the previous
year.  Real GDP rose by 2.8% in 1984, against -2.2Z in 1982 and 1.2% in
1983.
Assistance by the International Community
6.         Policies for restoring financial equilibrium have to be tailored
to fostering economic growth.   We requested the assistance of the inter-



- 38 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
national community in order to sustain our financial recovery and avoid the
risk of a prolonged decline in production.   However,  the response  to
Zaire's economic and financial recovery effects was only partial.   on
September 12, 1983 we signed a stand-by agreement with the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) for SDR 228 million, and in December 1983 the IMF
granted us a Compensatory Financing Facility for SDR 114.5 million.   On
December 19, 1983 the Paris Club agreed to reschedule US$1,317 million of
our external debt.  In April 1985 we signed a further stand-by agreement
with the IMF, for SDR 162 million, and in May 1985 the Paris Club agreed to
reschedule our 1985 external debt in the amount of US$300 million.
Furthermore, the London Club has defined terms for refinancing our debt
with the commercial banks. Finally, a new stand-by agreement is currently
being negotiated with the IMF.
7.         Despite the assistance of the IMF, the Paris Club and the London
Club, external aid commitments to Zaire are at a historical low. Bilateral
capital flows have been negative since 1983. Net capital outflow, includ-
ing interest payments, is estimated at US$300 million for 1985.
The Economy in 1985
8.            In 1985 we strengthened our stabilization measures directed
toward reducing the current balance deficit so as to avoid any revival of
inflation and preserving the free convertibility of the zaire through
continued exchange rate flexibility. A package of fiscal measures combined
with expenditure reductions should result in a budget surplus of 0.9% of
GDP in 1985, against a def icit of 0.7Z in 1984.  Realistic exchange rate
and cautious credit policies are expected to reduce the current account
deficit by US$50 million to US$180 million.
9.          However, the economy did not perform as well in 1985 as it did
in 1984.   Because of weak export prices and the decline in crude oil
exports, in 1985 export earnings grew by only an estimated 5% (about half
the level estimated at the beginning of the year).   The export earnings
shortfall and net capital outflow adversely affected imports, and the zaire
depreciated faster than in 1984. With the slower expansion of imports than
expected, GDP growth is projected at about 1%-2%, against 2.8% in 1984.
This underscored the urgent need for the international community to support
the Zairian Government's continuing stabilization and balance of payments
recovery efforts. In light of this prospect and of the current situation
of Zairian industry, the Executive Council requests the International
Development Association to approve a credit to Zaire to support the
rehabilitation and development of an efficient industrial sector.
Reactivation of the Industrial Sector
10.         While we recognize the need to pursue restrictive monetary and
budgetary policies in order to restore domestic and external equilibria,
expansion of supply by the productive sectors is necessary if stabilization
is to form the starting point for sustained growth. Output from existing
competitive industries must be increased and new economic and efficient
productive investments encouraged. To that end an environment conducive to
efficient import substitution and export production needs to be estab-
lished.   A realistic macroeconomic framework is already in place as a
positive factor for development of the industrial sector.



39-                         ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
11.         However, serious adjustment problems have arisen.  They stem in
part from chronic deficiencies that have affected maintenance of the erist-
ing capital stock, unsuitable incentives that have oriented the sector
toward the processing of imported inputs for the domestic market, and an
unfavorable climate for private investment in productive and export
sectors. In the short run, industrial recovery is being hindered by the
scarcity of foreign exchange, contraction of demand, shrinking of liquidity
and restrictive credit policy.
12.         We recognize that new industrial policy reforms are needed to
ensure the sector's recovery and its long-run development on sound economic
bases, and shall consequently adopt the goals and measures set forth in the
followilg paragraphs.  For industry to be able to respond to the new incen-
tives resulting from the economic reforms, large investments are needed to
rehabilitate and reorient the sector.   That calls for fresh inflows of
foreign exchange. For that reason we are asking for IDA's support in the
form of a credit to the industrial sector.
Industrial Policy Goals
13.            One of the goals adopted by the Executive Council is the
development of a competitive and efficient industrial sector. Other major
goals include promotion of exports, strengthening of the links between
agriculture and industry, and expansion of employment. We expect private-
sector initiative to play the key role in industrial investment while the
State concentrates its economic action on the provision and maintenance of
infrastructure, promotion of competition, and reform of industrial policies
that could impede efficient industrial development.
Export Promotion
14.        Export promotion has an essential role to play in the long-term
development of Zairian industry.  We are convinced that the expansion of
exports will help decisively to alleviate our balance of payments difficul-
ties. Maintenance of a realistic exchange rate is a fundamental incentive
for export promotion. We also intend to abolish all export duties, the CCA
and the statistical tax for exported industrial products. We shall also
simplify the administrative formatlities imposed on existing and potential
exporters and shall create an Export Promotion Unit.
Customs Tariff Reform
15.          High and unequal levels of effective protection of industry,
stemming from the present nominal protection structure, can lead to econo-
mically unjustified investments. We shall consequently implement a compre-
hensive reform of the tariff structure to make nominal protection more uni-
form. First of all, an initial base rate of 10% will apply to all imported
goods, including intermediate inputs. This measure will have an immediate
and positive effect on State revenues and encourage domestic production of
certain intermediate goods and the substitution of domestic for imported
raw materials wherever possible.



-40 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
16.         Secondly, the tariffs on finished products will be lowered pro-
gressively. We propose to establish a maximum tariff of 60X in the initial
stage and to draw up a tariff reform program to institute a nominal protec-
tion rate of about 30X over a four-year period. However, for three vulner-
able sectors (textiles, cigarettes and automobiles), we will temporarily
maintain tariffs of 100 and 80% in order to permit the implementation of
restructuring plans.  An excise duty can be applied to luxury goods.  To
avoid the domestic production of luxury goods at excessively high cost, we
propose to apply the same excise duty to a given luxury product, whether
imported or produced locally.   Import surcharges can also be imposed in
clear cases of dumping. Temporary income tax exemptions can be granted to
incipient industries under the Investment Code.
17.         Thirdly, the CCA (Turnover Tax) on imported goods and on goods
produced in Zaire will be equalized to apply a uniform rate to such
products regardless of their origin.  Moreover, the Development Agreement
Fund  (Fonds  des  Conventions  de  Developpement--FCD)   taxes  will  be
incorporated in the CCA.
18.          Fourthly, we propose to continue the reform of the system of
industrial incentives through further tariff, fiscal and institutional
changes.  This task would be entrusted to an Interministerial Commission
including representatives of the departments with economic responsibili-
ties, OFIDA (Customs Office) and the private sector.  The Commission will
be responsible for implementing the reforms indicated above and for
drafting a long-term program of reform of the incentives system to intro-
duce greater uniformity.  Finally, OFIDA's staff will be strengthened to
improve import duty collection.
Price Control
19.         We expect to achieve price stability, mainly through a prudent
monetary and budgetary policy.   However, we recognize the need for an
adjustment of relative prices for efficient resource allocation.   Conse-
quently, as part of our economic deregulation policy, we have abolished all
controls  of prices  of manufactured  goods.    The staff  of  the  Prices
Directorate of the Department of Economy and Industry will be assigned to
other tasks, such as establishment of a reliable statistical base for the
industrial sector and development of the necessary measures to increase the
role of competition in industry.
Tax Reform and Investment Codes
20.           Industrial enterprises are currently subject to a group of
fiscal and parafiscal charges, some of them arbitrary and poorly distri-
buted and even including levies imposed by certain authorities without any
legal basis. Moreover, the inflation and monetary realignments that have
occurred in the past, combined with provisions that do not allow adequate
asset revaluation, have made it difficult to determine realistic deprecia-
tion charges. These two problems are currently under study. As soon as
the findin&s become available we shall introduce appropriate reforms to
maximize overall private-sector investment initiative.   Towards the same
objective, the Investment Code has been revised.



Z A I R E          ~~~~~CENTRA/R-'.AFRICN   REPUBB-i,vf    SU DA N
"4ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS                           /        z1           -                  A.el     
*   P- ibat ctttrnel            r                                                                            HAUT- UEI-E 
oDbtotel MI                                          1_,, on  MONGALA               o uter                              < 
_._hbnfevllonatl tiltundarrj                    UBANGI       t %                            
Fowleltricounditry       /                                  0_ *,b                               >       
~-River                                                         13f~>>zF---       H  A  U  T       tI43Z ,~~'i  R E 
*-_~~~                         ~~ IZ   ------h  u    'v. r                                              B #rUR  /
r~~~~~~~~ j                  -  S.Aru 11 , ,                              E truR
0- r                                  @                        - , 3 B e t                    H AU   T   - Z A /R E)    N O D 
Cl fi / 2 3 t f K}VU I U~~~GANDA
G ABO N / t t ~~~~~~~~~~rL \   ,t,SHUAPA     t fC
GAO  r J       5                              A -N             D                                                   G  Jma
w-J   o'                 !       sut                   {        /       s          }7 ,"  SU-V    3RWANDAI 
-   iM5t  Sv -'t"* A a AANZANIAZ)                                                      __~      ukav
ZAIRE-< , S : <_.5 ~~~MAI-OOM  E olmt i
J  At/ont;c     \      KWANGO    t          + Z   s  o,  MbM.  TAGNKA   n                             onn
Oce~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u                                  o       indurLa .
m_~~~~~~~~~~~50 KIV   1 BURUNDI....J_
FtlGER    /   >   5 , _t  ,                    t            }  HAUr- IO~~~~~~~~MAi'IMIA  ~         \*
>-__-, CH^D S     r                                                                          {_   _x          i_ _>,~~~~~m  KUR
.rNeGERtA  r>   \   SUD^N    S  ANGOLA                               6-                  >            X~~~~ob:w  0  I
- -.  f^J  SNTAFIt RE}t.\  > -                                t             of   H  5jAK,, B    A C-                 J
,d                                                                                                                    TANZANIAi<_   ,tLtulbi*
thente\ Z OICO20A10  ' >; xEz
&NOA  5~<  I REtt                                 -? Lab 1
fl adi X<.a                                              ej o  o  oo so 40lso  _     ZAMB    
{  ;  , X    K LO"ErE"S              r                                           ;   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I  HAUT- IOMAMIAUGST 98
',GE 
. - , . - ,, , ,CHA, 



