OFFICIAL
DO~JCUMENTS         CREDIT NUMBER 1708 ZR
Development Credit Agreement
(Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUKBER 1708 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                          'I , 1986, between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
May 15, 1986, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment
of the industrial sector of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program and requesting assistance from the
Association in the financing of urgently needed imports required
during such execution;
(B) the Borrower has received from the Association, acting
as Administrator of the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa,
an African Facility Credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty-two million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 52,800,000), to provide additional financ-
ing for the Program, pursuant to the African Facility Credit
Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Association as such Administrator; and
(C) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided, in support of the Program, to provide
additional assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in
two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant
to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.";


﻿- 2 -
(b) the second sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
(c) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail, as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble
to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and "Special Account A" means the account referred to
in Sectioin 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventeen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 17,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
cause its central bank to open and maintain in dollars a special
account (Special Account A) in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, Special Account A shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
(c) The Borrower shall, in so far as practicable, give
priority to withdrawals of and payments from the proceeds of the
Special African Facility Credit over the proceeds of the Credit
provided for hereunder.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date s:ixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment .to fhe respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15, commencing October 15, 1996, and ending April 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 2006, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Bank of Zaire is designazed as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Condi-
tions, and the Borrower hereby entrusts the Bank of Zaire with
responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications
under the Credit and for the collection of the documents and
other evidence to be furnished to the Association in support of
such applications; such withdrawal applications shall, to the
extent practicable, be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal
of aggregate amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall,
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, for its review and comment, a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause
to be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the expenditures
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section, including Special Account A,
audited for each fiscal year in accordance with


﻿- 5 -
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the AssociatiGn shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account or payments out of Special Account A were
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment
out of Special Account A was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts be included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contain,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account or paid out of Special Account A in
respect of such expenditures were used for the
purposes for which they were provided.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) an event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out; and
(b)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Special African Facility
Credit made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Program shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor; or
(B) such Credit shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of thia paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement; and (B)
adequate funds for the Program are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph 4.01 (b) (i) (B) shall have
occurred, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that
Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿-7-
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the African Facility Credit Agreement have been fulfilled; and
(b) the Borrower has taken such steps as are necessary:
(i) to encourage exports, including the abolition of
export taxes on industrial goods and the elimina-
tion of administrative bottlenecks; and
(ii) equalize sales and similar taxes among similar
goods, whether imported or domestic.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower;.Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Commission of State of the Borrower responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
D6partement des Finances et Budget
Botte Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                     Telex:
DENFIN                           21161 KIN/GOMBE
Kinshasa


﻿- 8 -
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective nambs in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By                        u zA/  0( 0A kFR LL   C) 1OuJ
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of reasonable cost of
imported spare parts, raw materials and intermediate inputs for
the industrial and agroindustrial sector required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments for expenditures made prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(c) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $20,000 equivalent; and
(d) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed -to
finance.
3.   No withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of
Special Account A shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account, and the total amount of such commitments
shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 10,000,000, unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement: (a) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program; and (b) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been taken.


﻿- 10 -
SCMUDULE 2
Special Account A
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
in Special Account A pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Sched-
ule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of Special Account A shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that Special Account A has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Special Account A may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the Authorized Alloca-
tion, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit into Special Account A such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of Special Account A at such intervals or in
such minimum amounts as the Association shall specify. On the
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into Special Account A such amounts as
shall be required to replenish Special Account A with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments made out of Special Account A
for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn
by the Association from the Credit Account in the respective
equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 11 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account
A, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association such documents
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into Special Account A shall be made
by the Association when either of the following situations first
arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus
the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Sec-
tion 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall be
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such pro-
cedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Bor-
rower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in Special Account A as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account A: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
Special Account A (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into Special Account A shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.


﻿- 12 -
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account A will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods, estimated to cost
the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more each, shall be awarded
through international competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits", published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii)  a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines that are
potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
currency widely used in international trade and specified in
the bidding documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.


﻿- 14 -
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $2,000,000 each shall be awarded on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or payment
out of Special Account A in respect of such contract, two con-
formed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of
the advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association
may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in
respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of Special Account A, the copies of such contract or
the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or para-
graph 4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished
to the Association as part of the evidence required under para-
graph 4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account or payments out of
Special Account A on the basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3,
Clause (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   Adoption by the Borrower of a four-year program of tariff
reform aimed at establishing uniform rates of protection at
about 30%.
2.   Reform of the tax treatment of industrial companies, includ-
ing:
(a) the introduction of an adequate system for the revalua-
tion of assets;
(b)  the elimination of excessive parafiscal charges; and
(c)  the introduction of effective investment incentives
applicable generally to all industrial companies.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


