                                     Documentof
                                  The World Bank




                                                    ReportNo.: 32683




              PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT




                                     UKRAINE




                   DANUBEDELTA BIODIVERSITYPROJECT
                               (GET GRANT28654)




                                    June 20,2005




Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit=Hrivnya (UAH)
1994 US$l.O               -
                          -         0.328 UAH(appr isal)
1999 US$l.O               -
                          -         3.756 UAH (completion)


ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


DBR               DanubeBiosphere Reserve
DBRA              DanubeBiosphere ReserveAuthority
DPA               Danube Plavni Reserve Authority
DDBR              Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve
EIA               EnvironmentalImpact Assessment
GEF               Global Environment Facility
GET               Global Environment Trust
GIS               Geographic Information System
ICR               ImplementationCompletion Report
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
MoE               Ministryfor EnvironmentalProtection andNuclear Safety
MOT              MinistryofTransport and Communication
UAS              Ukraine Academy o f Science
OED              Operations Evaluation Department (of the World Bank)
PIU              Project ImplementationUnit
RIZA             Dutch Institutefor LandWater Management and Waster Treatment
SZP              Stentsovsko-Zhebrianski Plavny
WWF              World Wildlife Fund
ZP               ZhebrianskiPlavni



FISCAL   YEAR
Government:               January 1   - December 31




Acting Director-General, Operations Evaluation         :  Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Acting Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment       : Mr.R.Kyle Peters
Manager, Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation       : Mi-.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                           :  Mr. George T. KeithPitman

F i s s i o n :Enhancing developmenteffectivenessthroughexcellence and independencein evaluation.                       I
 About this Report
       The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassesses the programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two
  purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Banks work is
  producingthe expected results,and second,to helpdevelop improveddirections,policies, and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessonsdrawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
 the Banks lending operations. In selectingoperationsfor assessment, preference is given to those that are
  innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
  ExecutiveDirectors or Bank management have requested assessments;and those that are likely to generate
 importantlessons. The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselected for assessmentsupport largerevaluation
 studies.
       A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

 About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
 The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
 sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
 the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project`s objectives are consistent with the country's
 current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
 goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
 Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, NegIigible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project`s objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainabilify: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutional Development lmpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project`s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                       ...
                                                                       111



 Contents

 Principal Ratings and Key Staff Responsible                                 .................................................................. v

 Preface   ..............................................................................................................................      vu..

 Summary      ...........................................................................................................................       ix

 1.   Background         ..................................................................................................................      1

 2 The Project
  .                     ...................................................................................................................     3

         Objectives................................................................................................................. 3
         Implementing Arrangements.,..................................................................................                          3
         Implementation ........................................................................................................                5

 3 Evaluation
  .                   .....................................................................................................................     5
                     Counterfactual.............................................................................................                -5
                    MonitoringandEvaluation..........................................................................                           6
         Outcome................................................................................................................... 6
         Relevance................................................................................................................ -6
         Efjcacy ....................................................................................................................           7
        Efjciency., ..............................................................................................................             12
        Institutional DevelopmentImpact..........................................................................                              13
        Sustainability..........................................................................................................
                         . .                                                                                                                   13
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                     15
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                        16
4 .  Findingsand Lessons                .................................................................................................      17

                    The Future - Should the Bank Get Involved?...........................................                                      18
        What Value Wouldthe BankAdd?.........................................................................                                  19
        WhatShould be Considered?.................................................................................                             I9
        Lessons...................................................................................................................             20
Annex A: Basic Data Sheet                  ..............................................................................................      21




This reportwas preparedby GeorgeT KeithPitman. who assessedthe projectinNovember2004. The
                                                .
reportwas editedby William Hurlbut. and Soon-WonPakprovidedadministrative support.


                                                     V



PrincipalRatings and Key StaffResponsible

UKRAINEDANUBEDELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT(GET GRANT28654)

                                 ICR*                     ICR Review*             PPAR

Outcome                          Satisfactory             Satisfactory            Moderately
                                                                                  Satisfactory
Sustainability                   Uncertain**              Uncertain**             Unlikely
Institutional Development        Substantial              Substantial             Substantial
Impact
Bank Performance                 Satisfactory             Satisfactory            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance             Satisfactory             Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory

    * The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational
    division of the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify
    the findings of the ICR.
    ** The "uncertain" rating was dropped after 2003.




Project                        Task Manager               Division Chief/            Country
                                                          Sector Manager            Director
Appraisal (1993)               Phillip Brylski            James T. Goering           Basil Kavalsky

Completion (2001)              Alexci Slenzak             John Hayward              Lily Chu (Acting)


                                             vii


 Preface

         This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) preparedbythe
 Operations EvaluationDepartment (OED) for the UkraineDanubeDelta Biodiversity
 Project. The projectwas approved inApril 1994for a Global EnvironmentTrust Grant of
 US$1.54 million. The project closed after a six-month extension inJune 1999 when
 US$lO,OOO was cancelled. At completion total project costs were US$1.74 million.

        This report is based on the ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) prepared by
 the Europe and Central Asia Region (Report No. 19911dated November 1999), the
 Memorandum and Recommendation o f the President, the Global Environment Facility
 Project Document, loan documents, project files, and discussions with Bank staff. An
 OED missionvisitedUkraine inNovember 2004 to discuss the effectiveness o f the
Bank's assistancewith representatives o fthe government, project implementing agencies,
nongovernmental agencies, and with beneficiaries. The cooperation and assistance of
central government andregional officials and staff, the Ukrainian Academy of Scientists
andits various organizations, nongovernmental stakeholders, and other interested parties
are gratefully acknowledged.

        The project was selected for performance assessmentfor four reasons. First,
Ukraine is a relatively new Bank client and very few projects have beenassessed by
OED. Second, this project was part o fthe first global round o f GEF's biodiversity grants
that are now reachingcompletion. Third, an almost identical GEF project covering the
Romanianportion o f the Danube Deltahas also beencompleted and will be assessed
along with this project to draw lessons from the different approaches to biodiversity
conservation. And fourth, since project completion, sustainability has become an
internationalissue because the Government of Ukraine i s constructinga navigationcanal
throughthe center o f the biodiversityreserve incontraventiono f several international
conventions ratifiedby the government.

       Following standard OED procedures, this draft PPAR was sent to the borrower
for comments but none were received.


                                                i x


  Summary

         The Ukraine GEF DanubeDeltaBiodiversity Project aimed to raise the level of
 national and international interest inthe protection and management o f the delta. A parallel
 GEFproject also assistedthe largerRomanianpart ofthe DanubeDeltaanditwas assessed
 by OED at the same time. These two DanubeDeltaProjects were designed as apilot for a
 broader regional initiative with two other GEF regionalprojects, one for the Danube River
 basin, and one for the Black Sea.

         The principal objective ofthe projectwas to support Ukraine's efforts to protect and
 enhancethe ecosystems and biodiversity o f the Danube Delta Plavni Reserve. Specific
 objectives were to strengthen the capacity o f the Reserve Authority to expand andmanage
 the protected area effectively andcontinue the activities duringthe operational phase; work
 with local community groups to introduce participatoryprotected areamanagement to the
 DanubeDeltaand ensure sustainable resource use within it; protect andenhancethe
 Ukrainianportion o fthe delta ecosystems and contribute to conservation o f biodiversity
 withinthe delta; and coordinate the projectwiththe GEF RomaniaDanube Delta
 Biodiversity Project.

         Three o f the four project objectives were substantially achieved with few
 shortcomings. However, failure to introduceparticipatory protected area management to the
 DanubeBiosphere Reserve now threatens project sustainability. Accordingly, the outcome of
 the project i s rated as moderately satisfactory.

         Institutionaldevelopment i s rated as substantial. The capacity and credibility o fthe
 Danube Plavni Reserve Authority was significantly strengthened. Staff benefitedfrom
 extensiveoverseas andin-country training that broughtthem into the mainstream o fthe
European and internationalconservation community. The number o f wardens tripled and
they effectively regulate the reserve based on training provided on-the-job, inthe
Netherlands, France, and Romania-the latter under a collaborative agreement with
RomanianDanube Delta Biosphere Reserve whose staff also receivedreciprocal training in
Ukraine. Efforts to upgrade and expand scientific monitoring and database management were
successful. An endowment fund was established and appears to be successful. Good
coordinationwith the GEF Romania Danube Delta Biodiversity Project enabled fairly
extensive scientific collaboration that ledto joint publications andresearch duringand after
the project. Conservation o fbiodiversity andenhancedecosystem protectioninthe Ukrainian
Delta built on the project's capacity-building efforts. The area o f the Danube Plavni Reserve
was expandedmore than threefold and its status was affirmed by Presidential Decree. It was
elevated to an internationally-recognized transboundary biosphere reserve by UNESCO in
1999.

         Although public awareness o fthe mission o fthe Reserve Authority andthe
importance o f biodiversity was raisedthrough extensive outreach efforts by the reserve's
staff, the project was unsuccessful inbuildinglocal support for participatory protectedarea
management. The lack o f participation, allied with contraction o f the local economy andhigh
unemployment, has reduced local support for the Biosphere and encouraged local
communitiesto support a 2003 Ministry o f Transport initiative to construct an international

                                                X



shippingroute-the Bustroy Canal-throughthe center ofthe reserve. This not only
threatens the viability o f Biosphere Reserve, it also runs counter to a number of international
agreements and conventions that Ukraine had accededto since independence. It also set the
UkrainianAcademy o f Science andNGOs against the government leadingto the police
seizure o f all managerial records andeffective suspension o f the trust fund supporting
reserve management.

        Bank performance i s rated as satisfactory. Notwithstandingearlier efforts by the
Ukrainian government and line agencies to create and support the Biosphere Reserve, and the
exemplary performance o f line agenciesresponsible for the project, borrower performance on
biodiversity conservation ex-post i s rated as unsatisfactory on account o f recent government
actions. And for the same reason   - the unresolved Bustroy Canal issue sustainability i s rated
                                                                          -
as unlikely.
        Experience withthis project confirms a number o f OED lessons:
        Biodiversity conservation cannot be carried out inisolation. Ithas to be integrated
        withinthe economic interests o flocalandregional communities. Resentmentis
        created when financing o f nature conservation appears to have preference over unmet
        local needs, be it delivery o f basic services or employment. Failureto integrate local
        interests inthe conservation and management strategy of a biosphere reserve can
       endanger its longer-term sustainability.

    0  Conservation areas will be sustainable only ifthere i s good management and
       sufficient funding to maintainit. Thus it i s incumbentupon GEF project designers to
       facilitate establishment o f sound management and governance arrangements that
       include local stakeholders andpromote income-generating activities that will provide
       sustainable income for management.

   0   Biodiversity conservation may requiretrade-offs, particularly on the size o f the
       restricted area inwhich all economic and humanactivities are banned. Too large an
       area creates very highoverheads on policing andregulationandpossibly strong local
       opposition that may undermine longer-term sustainability. The size o f the area
       depends on the conservation objectives. Thus there shouldbe sufficient funding and
       time to facilitate agreement on the species and/or landscape that are the targets o f
       conservation, and for research to determine requiredminimumviable
       habitats/landscapes and their connectivity to larger-scale ecosystems.

   0   When establishing biodiversityreserves it is important to promote networking o f the
       reserve staff with the national and international NGOs and promote recognitionby
       internationalconventions. By doing so, a supportive network can be created that can
       quickly mobilizedto support the objectives o f conservation management should these
       be threatened by political, financial, or disaster-related events.


                                                                                 Ajay Chhibber
                                                                        Acting Director-General
                                                                          Operations Evaluation

                                                         1


  1.      Background

          Ukraine, with a population of 48 million, has the secondlargest landmass inEurope and
 i s comparable in size to France. After more than 70 years o f Soviet rule, the government was
 successful instabilizing the economy by the mid-1990s but hadundertaken few systemic
 reforms, As a result, by the end of 1999 official GDP had dropped to 40 percent o f its 1990 level
 inrealterms. The incidence ofpoverty increased sharply, with29 percent ofthepopulation
 falling below the poverty line in 1999, including 3 percent living inextremepoverty. The
 government's subsequent strong economic-reform programimprovedthe macroeconomic
 framework enabling GDP to grow by a third inthe periodto 2004. This growth was the result o f
 strong industrial output especially inmanufacturing, a surge inretail trade and construction,
 good agricultural performance, and creation of a dynamic private sector. Agriculture production
 accounts for about 12 percent of GDP.
          Soon after independence Ukraine's Ministry o f Environmental Protection, assisted by the
 Bank andthe U.S. EnvironmentalProtectionAgency, initiated a study to suggest priorities for
 environmental protection andnatural resource management. A formidable array o f problems and
 challenges was identifiedrangingfrom severe air and water pollution from industriesand
municipalities, to hazardous waste management and environmental clean-up following
Chernobyl. With the economy intransition most o f what neededto be done was unaffordable
and, insome instances, maybe unnecessaryas some ofthe major industrialpolluterswould be
non-viable ina market economy. Accordingly, the main recommendations inthe short- to
medium-termwere to encourage low-cost mitigationmeasures;' buildandimprovethe capacity
for environmentalmanagement and regulation (particularly o f facilities with deleterious health
impacts); and focus on interventions that would: have economic payoff (e.g., energy
conservation), be cost-effective through generated revenues (e.g., tourism), or prevent severe or
irreversible damage to important natural or agricultural areas.
         Ukrainepossessesa number o f unique ecologically important areas and in 1990 the
InternationalUnionfor the Conservation o fNature classified 11o f the nation's 15 strict nature
reserves as Category Ireserves, the highest category o f pr~tection.~ strict nature reserves do
                                                                                  The
not allow recreational activities, andtravel by unauthorized persons i s prohibited. Inmany cases
thishasfostered resentmentbylocal communities. FollowingUNESCO's Manand Biosphere
Program, three biosphere reserves were created inwhich a strictly protected area i s surrounded
by a bufferzone which inturnis surrounded by a transitionzone that includes traditional land
use, settlement and recreation, and limitedeconomic activity. The idea i s that endangered
resources will be protected ifthe interests o f the surrounding community and sustainable natural
resource use are fully integrated under reserve management.
        Likethe CarpathianMountains andthe last virgin steppes inEurope, the wetlands of
Ukraine are o f internationalimportance. Two regional flyways for migratory birds also cross the

1. World Bank.1994.Ukraine -SuggestedPrioritiesfor Environmental Protection andNatural Resource
Management. Two volumes. ReportNo. 1238-UA. June 15, 1994.
2. Mitigationmeasures includedimproved safety, water and energy conservation and greater attention to
maintenance at individual industrial and municipal plants.
3. Ukraine has 22 designated protected areas. These include 15 strict nature reserves, 4 national parks and 3
biosphere reserves. Inaddition, there are many other protected landscapes, zoological and botanic gardens.

                                                         2


 country, the birdsbeingattracted by feeding andnestingsites around the Black Sea, particularly
 at Chernomorski andthe DanubeDelta.
          The Danube Delta, sharedbetweenUkraine andRomania, is the second largestwetland
 inEur~peTheUkrainianpartofthe Deltaand its associatedwetlands cover some 150,000
                . ~
 hectares inthe southwest part o fthe Odessaregion. The Kiliyabranch o f the River Danube -
 taking 60 percent of the annual flow -forms the international boundary between Ukraine and
 Romania inthe delta region. The relatively young evolving delta encompasses a largenumber of
 islands, marshes, tributaries and canals, lakes with aquatic plants and reed beds, and a mosaic of
 forests, grasslands, and dunes inthe wetlandarea. These myriad habitats provide critical
 wintering andfeedinghabitat for about 320 ofthe 350 bird species inUkraine, which include42
 globally-threatened species o f birds inthe RedDataList.' The Delta also has over 75 fish species
 and47 species ofmammal, some ofwhich were also threatened. Over the last century the
 wetlands had been degraded by the construction o f dikes and large-scale hydrological works for
 irrigation and navigation- even so, the area retained significant social, economic, and
 biodiversity values.
          The Danube PlavniReserve -a strictly protected areacovering only about 10percent of
 the UkrainianDelta- was established as a branch o f the general Black Sea Reserve in 1981,but
 in 1991the DanubePlavniReserve became areserve inits ownright by government decree.
 Underthe control ofthe Instituteofthe Biology ofthe Southern Seas, whose main goal is
 scientific research, little attentionwas givento management o fprotectedareas. Other Black Sea
 wetlands feIl under the control o fthe Centre for the Ecology of the Seas that reported to the
 MinistryofEnvironmentalProtection.
          Humanandeconomic pressure inthe DanubeDeltaregionwas highand, withthe
 downturn o f the local economy after independence, the needs to strengthen conservation
 management and ensure its financial viability increased.6Specifically, the DanubePlavni
 Reserve needed to establish a buffer zone and carefully regulate fishing, hunting, grazing, and
 other wetland resources harvestingactivities. In 1991 the Danube Delta was declared a Ramsar
 Wetland o f international significance and an International Seminar was held in Romania to agree
a series o f management objectives for the delta.'

    ~~          ~             ~




4. The total area ofthe Danube Delta is 5,640 square kilometers o f which about a fifth (1,220 square kilometers)
lie inUkraine, the rest inRomania. The Kiliya branch, the northernmost major distributary of the River Danube,
conveys about 60 percento fthe River Danube'sannual discharge to the Black Sea.
5. The International Union for the Conservation ofNature's (IUCN's) RedListof ThreatenedSpeciesprovides
taxonomic, conservation status anddistribution information on taxa that have been globally evaluated using the
IUCNRed List Categories and Criteria. This system i s designedto determine the relative risk of extinction, and
the mainpurposeofthe IUCNRedListis to catalogueandhighlight those taxa that are facing ahigher riskof
global extinction (Le. those listedas Critically Endangered, Endangeredand Vulnerable).
6. The DanubePlavni Reserveis uninhabited but the surrounding area ofthe Kiliya rayon has a populationof
68,500 people, 11,000 o fwhom live inVilkovo on the eastern edge o fthe reserve. About 50,000 hectares
adjacent to the wetlands are irrigated and about 44,000 sheep feed on semi-natural rangeland. Shipping on the
Danube employed about 2,000 people and commercial fishing a further 300. There were about 1,500 registered
huntersinthe area.
7. The objective ofthe internationally-agreed Convention on Wetlands i s to halt the worldwide loss o f wetlands
and to conservethose that remain through wise use and management. The convention was held inRamsar, Iran
in 1971and is universally known as the Ramsar Convention.

                                                           3


 2.        The Project

           The original DanubeDeltaGEF Project plannedassistance only to the Romanianpartof
 the delta to raise the level ofnational andinternational interest inthe protectionandmanagement
 o fthe delta. Subsequently, the scope o fthe Romanianproject was amended to include Ukraine
 after itjoined the Bank in 1992.Recognizing, however, that differing national institutions would
 make implementation difficult it was decided to have two parallel projects, one for Romania, and
 one for Ukraine. These Danube Delta Projects were designed as a pilot for a broader regional
 initiative with two other GEF regionalprojects, one for the Danube River basin, and one for the
 Black Sea.'

 OBJECTIVES

          The GEF Trust FundAgreement defined a very broad objective that was refinedinthe
 GEF ProjectDocumentand disaggregated into four sub-objectives inthe ICR. Thus the global
 objective to support the Ukraine's efforts to protect andenhancethe ecosystems andbiodiversity
 o f the Project Area was refinedto include introductiono fparticipatory management inorder to
 protect the delta ecosystem and restore biodiversity withinthe broader context o f the regional
 GEFprograms. To achieve this objective eightcomponents were agreed for the strengtheningthe
 Danube Plavni Reserve. Table 1relates the objectives to components and costs.

 IMPLEMENTING       ARRANGEMENTS

          The executing agency was the Ministryof EnvironmentandNatural Resources (MoE)
 through its Department o f Protection, Use and Restoration o fNatural Resources. The MoE
 appointed a small non-profit NGO to become the project implementation unit (PIU). The same
 NGO had served successhlly inthe same role for three earlier GEF projects. But the institutional
 arrangements were relatively complex becauseof the overlappingjurisdictions o f different
 ministriesandagencies.
          At the start ofthe project, the Academy of Sciences ofUkraine managedthe Danube
 Plavni Reserve as a part o f its Chernomorskiy Reserve from its Odessabrancho f the Institutes o f
 Biology o f the Southern Seas. Initially, the Reserve Authority hadjurisdiction only over the land
resources because fishermen basedinVilkovo retained their historic fishingrights. The MoE's
Ukrainian Scientific Centre for the Ecology o fthe Sea was the coordinating center for wetlands,
their sustainable management, and (where appropriate) their reclamation. Accordingly, the
Academy o f Sciences and MoE agreed to coordinate research efforts inthe reserve. To avoid the
general ambiguityregardingoverall control o fproject implementationinthe field, the status o f
Reserve Authority was upgraded by the Academy o f Sciences and the PIU was givenoverall
authority for contracting. Several internationalNGOs also independently providedtechnical
assistance to the Reserve Authority: the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) for wetland restoration and


8. The Danube River basin project has attracted funding of US$56.7 millions and focuses on preparation of an
action plan, improved river basin management, a regional environmental survey, inventory ofbiological
resources, strengthening monitoring, data management, and applied research. The Black Sea program, for
US$9.3 millions, has as its objectives reversal o f environmental degradation o fthe Black Sea, and rational
natural resource management, development o f a pilot pollutant monitoring program, database, policy and
legislative enhancement, preparation o f investment proposals, and donor mobilization.

                                                     4


 Birdlife Internationalfor birdmonitoringandpublic awareness. Evenso, 80 ofthe 127weeks of
technical assistance was provided directly by UkrainianNGOs.
 Table 1:ProjectObjectives, Components,andCosts
             Objectives                                    Components                            costs (000s)
                                     Institutionalstrengthening. Restructureand                 Planned  Actual
                                     strengthenthe institutionaland operational capabilities
                                     of the DPA necessaryfor the developmentand                  $750     $991
                                     implementationof effective managementof the Project
                                     Area, includingthe provisionof technical assistance,
                                     staff training, staff housing,office facilities,equipment
                                     and recurrentcosts.
                                     Strengthen the wardens section. Strengtheningthe
                                     warden's unitthough training, relocationof warden
                                     stations to more appropriatesites,constructionof            $167     $275
                                     facilities,and provisionof goods
                                     Monitoring and Data Base Management. Developing
                                     and carrying out a monitoringprogram,through
1. Strengthenthe capacity of the     improved populationspecies inventories,ecosystems
Danube Plavni ReserveAuthority       surveys, hydrochemicalmonitoring,vegetation
(DPA) to expand and managethe        mappingand development of an integrateddatabase
protectedarea effectivelyand         using a simplifiedgeographicalinformationsystem, to         $110     $193
continuethe activities duringthe     providethe basisfor development of resource
operationalphase                     managementplans,includingthe provisionof technical
                                    assistance,staff training and goods.
                                     Endowment Fund. Developingand implementing
                                    legal, financial and administrativemechanisms
                                    necessaryfor the establishmentof an endowmentfund             $12      0
                                    designedto financethe recurrentcosts of managing
                                    the ProjectArea followingthe completion of the Project
2. Work with local community         Public awareness and community participation.
groups to introduce participatory    Carryingout a programto increasepublicawareness
protectedarea managementto          of, and communityand local non-governmental                 $131      $91
the DanubeDelta and ensure          organizationsinvolvementin, ecologicalprotection,
sustainableresource usewithin it     includingthe provisionof technical assistance,training,
                                    equipment and goods.
3. Protectand enhancethe
Ukrainianportion of the delta       Pilot restoration activities. Includinga pilot program
ecosystemsand contributeto          for wetland restoration,includingthe provisionof            $300      $44
conservationof biodiversity         studies,technical assistance,civil works and goods.
within the delta                    Create a Biosphere Reserve. Developingand
                                    implementinga programfor protectedarea expansion
                                    and creation of a biosphere reserve,throughthe
                                    preparationof managementplans and maps,                      $60     $133
                                    workshops,and seminars, includingthe provisionof
                                    technical assistance

4. Coordinatethe projectwith the    Coordinate with GEF activities in Romaniaand the             $11      $5
GEF Romania Danube Delta            GEF Black Sea EnvironmentalmanagementProgram
Biodiversityproject
                                                           Price and Physical contingencies     $195
                                                                           Total Project Cost   $1,737   $1,739

                                                           5


  IMPLEMENTATION

           Implementationwent smoothly with no major problems. Disbursement was slow due to
  the plethoraofUkrainianregulations andthePIU's unfamiliarity withthe Bank's procurement
 policies andpractice. The contract for a newheadquarters building and separate accommodation
  hadto be cancelled as it provedto betoo expensive. A prefabricated buildingincorporating
  accommodation was built instead and existing apartments were purchasedhenovated -this
 requireda six-month extension ofthe project.


 3.       Evaluation

 Counterfactual

          Without the project it was feared that the Ukrainianportion o fthe delta would not remain
 viable because the Reserve Authority didnot have sufficient authority to resist the humanthreats
 (hunting, grazing, and fishing) to the reserve area, or the financial, physical, andhuman
 resources to manage the reserve effe~tively.~Additionally, it was believedthat the Reserve
 Authority would be isolated from the European conservation mainstream, including work inthe
 Romanianportion o f the delta andthe internationalconservationist NGO community.
          Experience inthe delta prior to appraisaljustified these concerns, particularly the way in
 which the unprotected 9,700 hectares o f the Stensovsko-ZhebriyanskiePlavni (SZP) was
 managed. This area forms the northernpart of the delta discharging to Zhebranskie bay, just
 south o fthe beach resort town o f Primorskoye. The SZP was one o f the most important nesting
 places for birdsinthe delta region and relieduponthe unrestricted flow o f water into and out o f
 the area. While the Zhebriyanskie dune habitat is minedfor sand, ill-conceivedadvice and
 policies from departments of the former Ministry o fFisheries andthe Ministryo f Amelioration
 andWater Management ledto dredging, canal construction, anddykingofthe plavni to form rice
 paddies and fishponds that continueduntil 1991. A very large canal was constructed from near
 the Laptyshinlet to the Sasyk lagoonas a first linkofthe (now abandoned) intra-coastal Danube-
 Dniester connection and this cut the SZP into two halves. Pollutedeffluent from the rice paddies
 significantly reduced fishproductionand, inthe summer, the stench adversely affected tourism
 inPrimorskoye. Despitethisproblemwater levels were artificially maintainedby sluices to
 encourage breedingo f muskrats even though the number trapped by huntersfell from 18,000 a
year inthe 1980sto only 2,000 a year in 1991. No opinion or advice from the local fishermen
was sought by the central authority, and fishermen have reported a sharp decline incatches since
the canals were built. Thus clearly conflicting interests o f cultivators, huntersand fishermenhad
not beenresolved.



9. At appraisal the Reserve Authority had a total staff o f 18 including 6 scientific researchers, 4 wardens and 5
administrative staff. The local population was 68,000 o f whom 32,000 relied on the land for a living. The
Reserve Authority had a small office in Vilkovo with no access to the water and no space to store equipment.
Effective management o f the Reserve Authority was estimated to cost $47,000 a year -the actual budget was
only $3,000. Huntinginthe delta produced 30,000 kills per year including birds and mammals. About a third o f
the fish caught from the river and interconnected waters (average 900 tons per year) came from the reserve area.

                                                        6


 Monitoring and Evaluation

           While project inputs and outputs were adequately monitored, muchgreater attention was
 given to biodiversity monitoring and evaluation (component 3). Importantly, US$193,000 (75
percent more thanestimated at appraisal) was spent on ecosystem, biological and hydrochemical
monitoring. External experts (WWF andothers) were mobilized to bring the level of biodiversity
monitoring and evaluation to international standards. The standards adopted generally comply
withthe Bank's guidelines for biodiversityprojects.lo
OUTCOME

           The outcome of the GEFDanube Delta Biodiversity Project is rated moderately
satisfactoryat the time of this evaluation. This rating is basedon the relative importance o f
objectives, their relevance, and the efficacy and efficiency o f efforts to achieve them (see Table
2). Objective 2 is given slightlymore weight than objective 1as described below.
           OED's assessment adjusts the ICR's satisfactory outcome ratingto moderately
satisfactory, a rating not available to the ICR. The primary reason i s that attempts to ensure
participation o f all stakeholders inthe management o f the Reserve were generally unsuccessful.
The localpopulationbelieves the ReserveAuthority's regulatory activities reduce economic
activities even while the economic fortunes of the region continued to decline. Thus their support
for the construction o f the Bustroy Canal through the center o f the Reserve -andthe jobs it may
bring-i s more important than their concern for the effects the canal would have on the viability
o fthe biosphere reserve. The findings are elaborated below.
RELEVANCE

          Overall relevancewas high at appraisal and remains high. The project design was
relevant at appraisal to both the Bank's and Ukraine's evolving priorities for environmental
protectionand natural resource management (para. 2). Current relevance i s reaffirmed by the
government's commitment to protectiono f its natural resources. To date Ukrainehas ratified27
key environmental conventions and is the Party to 26 environmental conventions some.
Practicallyall important international agreements inthe domain o f conservation and non-
exhaustive use o f biodiversity have become formalized through Ukrainiannational legislation.l1
According to the recommendations o f the Pan-European Strategy on Conservation o f Biological
andLandscape Diversity, a UkrainianNationalEcologicalNetwork 2000-2015 was developed
andmade effective (2000), the Law o fUkraine"On EcologicalNetwork of Ukraine" (2004) was
adopted, and the Concept o f the State Program on Biodiversity Conservation was developed. To


10. World Bank. Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluation for Biodiversity Projects. Environment Department
Papers. No. 065, June 1998.
11. EUCommittee on Environmental Policy. 2004. Environmental Performance Review of Ukraine. 11"
Session, Geneva, 13-15 October 2004. Agenda itemNo 4(a). Relevant internationalenvironmental
agreements acceded to or ratified include: Agreementsto protect andmanagetransboundary watercourses;
Convention on Biological Diversity (Rio); Convention on Wetlands on InternationalImportance as Waterfowl
Habitat (Ramsar); Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (Bonn); Convention
on the Conservation of European Wildlife andNatural Habitats (Bern); Convention Concerning the Protection
of World Cultural andNatural Heritage (Paris); and the Convention on access to information, public
participation indecision-making and access tojustice in environmental matters (Aarhus).

                                                  7


 ensure sound management andpreservation o f biodiversity and landscapes of the Black Sea and
 the Sea o f Azov, the government i s inprocess of ratifying the Protocol on Biodiversity and
 Landscapes Conservation.

 Table 2: Ratingsfor Achievementof ProjectObjectives

           Objectives             Relative   Relevance     Efficacy     Efficiency  OUTCOME
                                 Importance


 1, Strengthen the capacity of
 the Danube Plavni Reserve
 Authority (DPA)to expand
 and manage the protected            1          High      Substantial Substantial   Satisfactory
 area effectively and
 continuethe activitiesduring
 the operationalphase
 2. Work with local community

 participatoryprotected area
 groups to introduce                 1          High       Negligible    Modest    Unsatisfactory
 management to the Danube
 Deltaand ensure sustainable
 resource use within it
 2. Protectand enhance the

 ecosystems and contribute
 Ukrainian portionof the delta       3          High      Substantial Substantial   Satisfactory
 to conservationof
 biodiversitywithin the delta
 4. Coordinatethe project
with the GEF Romania                 4       Substantial Substantial     Modest     Moderately
 Danube Delta Biodiversity                                                          Satisfactory
project
                Overallratings               High        Modest       Substantial  Moderately
                                                                                   Satisfactory


EFFICACY

         Overall efficacy i s rated modest taking into account the relative importance o f objectives
andtheir level of achievement.
Objective 1: The capacity and credibility of theDanube Plavni ReserveAuthority was
strengthened
        Overall staffing numbers grew from 18 to 35 duringthe life o fthe project and increased
ex-post to 47 in2004 to fill the fully equipped and computerized headquarters buildingand
accommodation providedby the project inVilkovo. The number o f scientists increased by half
and apublic affairs officer was appointed. More importantly, the number o fwardens carrying out
inspectionand regulatorywork increased almost fourfold to 14. There was also a marked
increase intechnical and support staff who now number 23. Why the Reserve Authority needs 6
engineers, 8 security guards, and 5 accounts staff i s not clear.

                                                     8


          Staff benefitedfrom extensiveoverseas and in-country training that brought them into the
 mainstream o fthe European and international conservation community. This also allowed
 foreign wetlands management specialists andNGOs accessto the Ukrainian Danube Delta,
 contributing to capacity and network-building and a better understandingo f international
 wetlandmanagement practice. Inadditionto extensive Englishlanguage training, scientists
 received about 580 person days of technicaltraining that rangedfrom wetlands management and
 restoration, bio-business workshops, andmanagement o f protected areas and also included
 participation ina number o f internationalworkshops on wetlands. Some o f this training was
providedby the project, but there were substantive inputs from the Dutch Institute for Inland
 Water Management and Waste Water Treatment (RIZA), WWF andthrough a USAID-
 sponsored study tour o f protected areas inthe UnitedStates.
          Thewardens are now effectively regulatingthe reserveusingboats, other equipment,
the three wardens' stations andtraining providedbythe project. Training was provided on-the-
job, and inthe Netherlands, France and Romania-the latter under a collaborative agreement
withRomanianDanube DeltaBiosphere Reserve, whose staff also receivedreciprocaltraining in
Ukraine. The MoE also providedtraining and manuals to standardize wardens' skills and
knowledge with protected area management practice withinUkraine.
          Efforts to upgrade and expand monitoring and database managementwere
successful. The major contribution o f the project was to provide basic equipment (computers,
software, geographic information systems, and email) that enabled reserve staffto more
effectively apply their existingresearch skills and network withthe global community of
scientists. Importantly, monitoring and evaluation not only provided basic management data but
also helped to definethe strategy adopted by the management planfor the reserve. Project
fundingandpartner internationalNGOs facilitated training andparticipationinconferences,
efforts that ledto more efficient ways o f data analysis anddissemination andthe use o f feedback
to improve research and databasemethodology. Among the many notable achievements the
Reserve Authority, inassociation with the RomaniaDanube Delta Institute assisted by the
Netherlands, produced in2002 the first transboundary vegetation map o f the whole Danube
Delta.l2
         An endowment fund was establishedand appears to be successful. Although the
technical assistance allocated for this component was not used, a fund was established bythe
Reserve Authority. Money generated from royalties from resource use, fees, and tourism i s
reportedly used to top-up the budgetprovidedby the UkrainianAcademy o f Sciences. Details o f
income and expenditure were unavailable to OED's team becausethe accounts and computers in
Vilkovo had beenseized by the Ministry o f Transport Police for use incriminal proceedings
against the Reserve Authority (discussed inmore detail under institutional development,
para. 44).
Objective2: Theprojectfailed to work with local community groups to introduce
participatoryprotected area management to theDanube Delta

         Public awareness o f the mission o f the Reserve Authority andthe importance o f
biodiversity was raisedthrough extensive outreach efforts by the reserve's staff. Staff represent

12. Directorate-General for Public Works and Water Management (RIZA), the Netherlands. 2002. Vegetation
o fthe Biosphere Reserve "Danube Delta." RIZA Report 2002-049, December 2002.

                                                   9


 the Reserve Authority onVilkovo Council andonthe committees offishing andhunting
 associations. A large number o f articles and some films on the Reserve have beenpublicized
 through local andnational newspapers and TV.l3A full-time publicity officer was appointed and
 a Reserve Authority Information-Tourist Center created from a former primary school in
 Vilkovo town center. As a result, a greater number o f visitors to the region are aware o fthe
 Reserve Authority's activities (Figure 1). The number of foreign visitors, representing23
 countries in2001 and 40 in2004, increased tenfold inthe same period-the financial benefits
 this broughtto theregionareunknown. Some ofthis growthis due to the increased international
 attention following the Ministry of Transport's proposal to dredgethe Bustroy Canal throughthe
 center o f the reserve (para. 45).
         Inanotable initiative, a small grantsprogram($5,000 per activity) startedin1998and
 involved about 500 adults and children in22 local conservation activities. The process of
 selecting eligible proposals from the 85 received illustrates the differing perspectives o f locals
 and the Reserve Authority. The Authority tendedto prefer activities ledby Kyiv-based
 environmental NGOs becausethese reflectedreserve priorities, not those of locals, a bias that
 was toned down after discussion with the Bank's supervision team. These details are well
 described inthe ICR (para. 24) and are very muchtop-down andpaternalistic innature.
 Figure 1:There is growinginterestinUkraine's DanubeBiosphereReserve

                                 Total Number           - -+ -ForeignVisitors
                 6,000


                 5,000


                4,OW     __
    Visitors
                3,000


                2,000   __

                1.000   __
                                          - - - - - - - e - -
                                                           - - - - e *
                                                             ~




                            2000        2001        2002         2003        2004



Source: DanubeBiosphere Reserve Visitors' Book, 2004


         Incontrast to awarenessraising, theproject was unsuccessful inbuildinglocal support for
participatory protected area management. After delays caused by the attention givento staff
training andprocurement, reserve staff initiated (in 1996) surveys o f individuals and groups in
Vilkovo to determine their views on the reserve, its function, and its relationto the local
community. Latterly (1998), staff was reluctant to undertake public consultation and encourage
participation untilthe biosphere reserve was established and a managementplanbecame
available for comment. Thus by the end ofthe project there was no participatory management -
andsix years later (2004) nothinghas changed.

13. There was a trice-weeklynewspapercolumn on the DPR inthe Kiliya newspaper; andmagazinesand
booklets were producedwiththe assistanceofthe WWF.

                                                         10


           Stakeholders ascribe the lack o f localparticipation inthe biosphere reserve management
  to three principal causes. First, reserve management i s seen as aprerogative o f the Reserve
  Authority; second, regulatory activities are seen to restrict local income-generating and sporting
  activities; andthird, the Reserve Authority has not created as much local employment as
  expected.
          State-employed experts do nothavea cultureofparticipatorymanagement. The
  UkrainianAcademy o f Sciencesis one of the most prestigious institutions inthe country and
  employs the country's best scientists. As an elite organization its various specialist organizations
 -suchastheInstitutefortheBiologyoftheSouthernSeasanditsoffshoottheDanubePlavni
  Reserve - see pure research as their principal function. And a basic tenet of the UAS's natural
  biological research was that humaninterventions had to be strictly controlled by exclusion-
 hence its designation as a strict nature reserve. Thus the overall culture o f UAS staff for the last
  77 years has not considered local residents as stakeholders inits scientific management of
 biologicalreserve areas -traditionally localpopulations not only posed a threat to nature, they
 also had no scientific knowledge as a basis for sound decision-making. Consequently, the culture
 norm i s that locals' views were (and are) irrelevantto the management of protected areas -the
 evolution o fthe small grants program (para. 25) highlightsentrenched attitudes. Not
 surprisingly, the project's aim to diametrically change this perspective infive years was not
 successful.
          There is a strong localperception that the Reserve Authority's regulationover an
 increasingly large areahas ledto a decline intraditional income-generating activities inthe
 wetlands. With the establishment o fthe Danube Biosphere Reserve in 1998 (para. 33) the area
 undermanagement andregulationincreasedandjurisdiction was extended to cover water as well
 as terrestrial resources. The most obvious impact has been inthe Stensovsko-Zhebriyanskie
 Plavni where a returnto the natural hydrologic regimehas further reducedthe muskrat
 population and placed greater limitations on shooting and grazing. Research established viable
 levels o f cattle grazing on seasonally burned wetlands but these recommendations were ignored
 by farmers andthe Reserve Authority hadto crack down on offender~.'~                Fishcatches inthe
Reserve have also declined (Figure 2). While locals blame the Reserve Authority's regulation,
the Authority cites the increasing incidence o f unregulated fishing andpollution o f the Danube
River by upstreamriparians. The environmentalimpact assessment for the Bustroy Canalnotes
that fishermenincreasingly avoid having to report catches to the Reserve Authority wardens'
official fish catch stations."
          At the public launchingof the GEFproject inVilkovo many locals gained the impression
that a good part o f the $1.5 million grant hnds -huge intheir terms -would benefit the local
economy. This didnot happen. Apart from the few locals directly employed by the Reserve
Authority and the income brought into the community, there are no data on the incremental
employment impact o fthe project except for partial data related to reed cutting. According to the
Reserve Authority, the available workforce inVilkovo is about 4,000 o f whom 1,000 people are


14.For example inone area the agreed grazing intensity was one cattle head per hectare, inpractice farmers
exceeded seven per hectare and were prosecuted as a result.
15. Ministryo fEcology and Natural Resources o f Ukraine. 2003. EnvironmentalAssessment (EA) within the
framework o fthe project "Creation o fthe Danube -the Black Sea deep-water navigable passage inthe
Ukrainian part o fthe delta. Stage 1" Report No. 1.3-19. Kharkov.

                                                        11


 employed inreed harvestingwithin the                     F i g u r e 2 : R e p o r t e d F i s h N u m b e r s
 reserve (November-March) and a further                   i n the D a n u b e B i o s p h e r e R e s e r v e
 300 over the periodMarch-July on
 cleaning and bundling reeds for export.                            8 , 0 0 0
 About 3,000 are mostly unemployed
 (because o f the downturn inDanube
 shipping and related industries) or are           N u m b e r o f

 engaged insmall micro-enterprise                   r e p o r t e d
 activities such as apiculture, wood
 cutting, and collectiono f forest products
 -muchofitwithinthereserve.Formerly                                         0   :
 reed harvesting was a state cooperative                                     1 9 9 0 1 9 9 2 1 9 9 4 1 9 9 6 1 9 9 8 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 2
 enterprise, the value added by the GEF
 project beingto improve harvest efficiency and initiate exports that increased fivefold between
 1995 and 2004. The royalty paidto the Reserve Authority provides a substantial part of its
 income, reportedly giving rise to some resentment by local councilors.l6Overall, the conclusion
 i s that stakeholders see the Reserve Authority as managed by a relatively privileged group o f
 outsiders who have done little to further their economic interests. Inconsequence, the Reserve
 Authority has become the target for local grievances -rightly or wrongly - due inmany
 instances to the effects o f cessation o f guaranteed employment instate enterprises and a
 declining regional economy.
 Objective3: Theproject contributed to conservation of biodiversity and enhanced
 ecosystemprotection in the Ukrainian Delta

          The DanubePlavni Reserve was enlarged to give it greater protectionand its status was
elevated to an internationally recognized biosphere reserve. The MoE's rationale and
justification for enlargement,put forward in 1996, was baseduponthe scientific work facilitated
by the project and consultation with all stakeholders that rangedfrom the Oblast government to
local huntingand fishing organizations. However, plans to include surrounding agricultural areas
falling within the drainage area affecting the reserve's lands (so that they could regulate land
practice, fertilizer andherbicide and pesticide application) failed becauseo f strong local
opposition and fear o f economic consequences.
          The 1998 enlargementofthe original Danube PlavniReserve, that now forms the core of
the Danube Biosphere Reserve, increasedthemanagedarea from 14,851 hectaresto 46,400
hectares and included channels, interior ponds and a two kilometer strip o f the Black Sea
adjacent to the delta. The strictly protected core is surrounded by the regulated zone o fthe
Stensovsko-ZhebriyanskiePlavni (7,8 11hectaresthat was transferred from the Ministryo f
Forests) and a buffer zone o f 19,687 hectares. A further 4,054 hectares that includes vegetable
gardens andpasture was designated an anthropogenic landscape.l7As a result, humanactivities
in49 percent ofthe enlarged reserve (22,659 hectares) are either banned or strictly regulated,

16. A million bundles were harvestedin2003/04 and were exported to the Netherlands (Hidhoom City) at
1.65/bundle. Transport accounted for 0.6, the reed cutting enterprises got 0.25. The Reserve Authority's
royalty was 0.04/bundle amounting to 40,000 in2003/04.
17. Decree o fthe President o fUkraine No 861/98 placed the Danube Biosphere Reserve under the management
o fthe Academy o f Scienceo f Ukraine. August 10, 1998. UNESCO certified the reserve onFebruary 2, 1999.

                                                          12


  while the rightso ftraditional landuse and ownership (by either collectives or the Ministryof
  Forests) were retained inthe remaining area. Tourism access to the strictly protected parts of the
  reserve i s only possible under the strict supervision o f the Reserve's wardens.
           In1999UNESCO accordedtheDanubeBiosphere Reservethe status ofaninternational
  biosphere reserve and also recognizedthe delta sharedby Romania and Ukraine as the
  transboundary Biosphere o f the Danube Delta-one o f the five transboundary biosphere
  reservations inthe world.
           Inrecognitionoftheir importance, the wetlandsofthe Danube delta were also addedto
  the Global 200 list ofthe world's most valuable wetlandsnotable for their highbiodiversity. The
  Global 200 list i s a science-based global rankingo f the Earth's most biologically outstanding
  terrestrial, freshwater, and marinehabitats, providing a framework for biodiversity conservation
  at a global scale."
           Physical activities financed by GEF to aid conservation were substantially reduced (by 85
  percent) andmuch o fthe proposed work was done inpartnership with other bilateral and
  internationalagencies. Primary reasons for the reduced GEF input were cost overruns on
  capacity buildingand the newprefabricated headquarters building, and changing priorities as the
  project matured. Evenso, the project financed $50,000 to initiate restoration o fthe Stensovsko-
  Zhebriyanskie Plavni, a task successfully continued by RIZA and WWF-International.
  Objective4: Successful coordination with the GEFRomania Danube Delta Biodiversity
project has grown into a workingrelationship based on commongoals
  Reciprocalvisits by Romanian andUkrainianscientists andwardens took place early inthe
 project and some training activities were shared (para. 21). Major impedimentsthat were partly
 overcome includedthe difficulties o f border transit, the lack o f foreign exchange onthe Ukraine
 side and historicalprecedents that made cross-border collaboration difficult. Evenso, since the
 initial meetings there has been fairly extensive scientific collaboration leadingto joint
 publications andresearch. More recently EU-TACIS financed four workshops in2003 dealing
 withtransboundary cooperation inRomania, Ukraine, andMoldava inwhich 250 specialists
 debatedthe existing conditions ineachreserve, identifiedneeds for cooperation inadjacent areas
 and harmonization o f the legal framework related to conservation. Objectives for integrated
management o f transboundary biodiversity areas were agreed.l9

EFFICIENCY

          The overallefficiencyis rated as substantial.Beingprimarilya capacity-building
project, a formal economic rate of returnwas not estimated at either appraisal or completionand


 18. The Danube Biosphere Reserve i s Global 200 EcoRegion Developed by WWF scientists in collaboration
with regionalexperts around the world, the Global 200 is the first comparative analysis o fbiodiversity to cover
every major habitat type, spanning five continents and all the world's oceans. The aim o f the Global 200 is to
ensure that the full range o f ecosystems is represented within regional conservation and development strategies,
so that conservation efforts around the world contribute to a global biodiversity strategy.
19. TACIS. 2004. TransboundaryCooperationin theNatureprotectedAreas in DanubeDelta andLower Prut
- Management Objectivesfor Biodiversity ConservationandSustainableDevelopment. The TACIS Programme
i s an EU initiative for the New Independent States and Mongolia aimed at fostering harmonious and prosperous
economic and political links by supporting partner countries' initiatives.

                                                     13


 efficiency i s rated on cost-effectiveness. Efforts to improve the capacity and elevate the status o f
 the Reserve Authority, accounting for 92 percent ofproject costs, were conducted very
 efficiently primarilybecause of the highdegree of coordinationamong the principal actors (the
 Reserve Authority, government, nationaland international NGOs, and RIZA) and agreement on
 well-defined objectives. Conversely, the efficiency o fthe components dealing with community
 participationand coordinationwith Romania, accounting for five percent of costs, i s rated
 modest because the transaction costs were relatively highcompared with achievements.

 INSTITUTIONAL      DEVELOPMENT      IMPACT

          Overall institutional development impact is rated as substantial. The project
 supported creationof an administratively and technically viable Reserve Authority with
 enhanced legal authority to implement its mandate to protect and conserve biodiversity inthe
 Danube Delta. Frombeingrelatively unknown, infewer than six years the Danube Biosphere
Reserve has become internationallyrecognized and supported. Additionally, strong links have
been created andmaintainedwith national and international NGOs, pan-European organizations,
and bilateral donors interested inpromoting wetlands and biodiversity. These links not only
stimulated growth o fthe Reserve Authority butmore recently they have assisted inpublicizing
the Bustroy Canal proposal that threatens integrityo f the reserve.
          One aspect o f institutional development, participatory management, is ratedmodest at
best. Many o fthe reasonsfor this are clear (paras. 26-30). A slightly different governance
structure inwhich the management o f the reserve and regulation are clearly separatedfrom the
science and conservation functions could help. A non-technical managerial authority could act as
interlocutor betweenmonopolistic concerns o f the scientist and the concerns of the local
communities -the experience o f such a set-up inthe muchlarger Romanianportion o fthe
DanubeDelta works well.

SUSTAINABILITY

       ' Sustainabilityis rated as unlikely. Ifthe OED assessment hadbeenbased onthe
Reserve Authority's performance until2002, then sustainability would have beenratedlikely.
Untilthengovernment andMoE support for thereserve was unwavering. The Reserve Authority
had enlarged and legally securedthe integrityo f the biosphere reserve, budget support from the
Academy o f Sciences was assured, and income generated withinthe reserve from licensing, reed
cutting, andtourism filled the gap betweenthe central budget contributionandtotal running
costs.
         InMarch2004Ukraine's Cabinet ofMinistersunilaterallyendorsed the Ministryof
Transport and Communication (MOT)put forward a proposalto canalize the Bustroy
distributary, thus cuttingthe core ofthe reserve inhalf." The decision to construct the 7.6-meter-
deep Bustroy Canal overrode international concerns about the process andtransparency o f this
decision, specifically the consideration o f alternatives. To facilitate the canal construction, the
M O T had a Presidential Decree issued alienating the lakes and waterways and a 1OO-meter strip
o f adjacent shores from the biosphere reserve, thus makingnonsenseo f the reserve's raison


20. The Decree ofthe PresidentofUkraine No. 502/2003, Decree ofthe Cabinet ofthe MinisterofUkraine No.
598-r, dated 13.10.2003and as amended by Presidential Decree No. 117/2004.

                                                     14


 d'etre.The MOTCjustified this decision by invoking: (a) the strategic importance o f navigation
 to Ukraine; (b) the needto challenge Romania's neax-monopoly on internationaltrade on the
 DanubeRiver; and(c) the imperativeto rejuvenate the economy of Pridunajskogoregionof
 southwest Ukraine.
         A series of environmental impact assessments(EIAs) commissioned bythe MOT
 eventually raised no objectionto proceeding with the canal proposal. Reviews by local and
 international environmentalists, and officials of the international biodiversity conventions ratified
 by Ukraine, found the EIA faulty and insufficiently robust. Specifically, they alleged that the
 terms o freference were too narrow, and that the M O T repeatedly tendered the EIA until they got
 the result they required. The UkrainianAcademy of Sciences and the Reserve Authority hold the
 same opinion. The Ministryo f Environment supports the MOT'Sposition. There was no
 economic appraisal. Physical work on the canal - estimated by M O T to cost about US$40
 million at completion - started on May 24 andit was officially opened by President Kuchma on
 August 26, 2004. A rapid appraisal bythe Council o fEuropeputthe total capital cost at 30-40
 million (US$38-50 million) and annual maintenance at 0.25 million (US$0.3 million).'l
         There is now doubt that the reserve will bemanaged sustainably. Inresponse to the
public objections o f Reserve Authority staff and the UkrainianAcademy o f Sciences, the M O T
Transport Police, alleging accounting irregularitiesby staff o f the Academy o f Sciences, raided
theBiosphere's office (built and equippedbythe GEF/Bankproject) in2 November 2004 and
seized computers, correspondence and 340 volumes o f account files. All financial activities
were halted, includingthe ability to pay staff andpurchase fuel for the wardens' transport.              ''The
day before OED's visit (November 17), the MOT Police threatened to arrest the Director o fthe
Biosphere Reserveunless he endorsed the canal (and voted for Yanukovich) andtried to arrest
the finance director (who was absent inOdessa) on unspecified corruption charges. The local
populationi s against the reserve. Local people usedto work inharmony with the reserve, but
they have beenrecently swayed by adverse propaganda into believingthat the strict management
andregulationofthe reserve threatens their livelihood andthe 1,000 to 1,500 jobs the Bustroy
Canal and the port work may potentially provide. A result o fthese police actions and adverse
publicity is that reserve management i s starved o fthe income it generated from providing
licenses for regulated harvestingo fthe natural resources o f the biosphere (mainly fishing, reed
cutting, and tourism).
         The UkrainianAcademy o f Sciences alerted local and internationalNGOs to the Bustroy
Canal issue, the threat to the reserve, the lack o f a transparent EIA process, and the implications
for good governance inUkraine. Several thousand letters from around the world have beensent
to government raising concern about these issues.23UNESCO (Man and Biosphere Programme)
and the Ramsar Convention sent a delegation inOctober 2004, andthe European Commission's
Directorate o f Environment sent delegations to Ukraine inJuly and October 2004. In

           ~




21. Council o fEurope. 2004. Secretariat Memorandum T-PVS/files(2004) 3. Convention on the Conservation
of European Wildlife andNatural Habitats. Report on the Shipping Canal in the Bystre estuary, Danube Delta,
Ukraine-Report of the on-the- spot appraisal by M Heme Lethier (22-24 July, 2004).
22. BirdForum. 2004. www://birdforum.net/archive/index.php/t-26699 andpersonal communication Alexander
Voloshkevick, Director o fthe DanubeBiosphere Reserve Authority.
23. BetweenMay 1andNovember 2004 there were 5 1,024 comments from 90 countries.
www.petitiononline.com/RomDElta/petition.  html.

                                                 15


 consequence, the EC asked for "reassurances [from Ukraine] confirming its intentionnot to
 proceed further with this project pending preparation o f a proper EnvironmentalImpact
 Assessment to international standards." No suchreassurancehas been given.
         There may be a transboundary effect on Romania, increased sedimenttransport through
 the deepened Bustroy channel increasing sedimentation and sand bars inthe coastal area south o f
 the outlet to the Black Sea, andthis may potentiallyhinder navigational access to the Selima
 Branch o f the Danube, an international waterway. Consequently, Romaniahas made a series o f
 formal objections and these have rested with the UkrainianPrime Minister since June 2004.
         Constructiono f the Bustroy Canal without adequate consultation allegedly violates a
 number o f international conventions signed by Ukraine, including:
         The Ramsar Convention on Wet Lands, 1971
         The Paris Conventiononthe Protection ofthe World's Cultural andNaturalHeritage,
         1975
         The BernConventionon the EuropeanWildlife and Natural Habitats Protection, 1979
         The Rio de Janeiro Convention on Biological Diversity, 1992
         The Helsinki Conventionon the Protection and Use of Transborder Waters and
         InternationalLakes, 1992
         The Sophia Conventionon the Cooperation, Protectionand Durable Use o fthe
         Danube River, 1994
         The Agreement between the Romanian Government and the Ukrainian Government
         on cooperation inthe management of transborder waters, Galati, 1997

         There i s thus a question o fprinciple: will Ukraine abide by international conventions and
agreements it signs?
         The new Yushenko government, after initially announcing itwould finalize the
construction, softened its stance inMarch 2005 after the internationalCompliance Committee o f
the Arhus Conventionfound Ukraineliable for violation ofthe Convention(February2005).24
Followinga site visit, the Minister o f Transport announced at a meeting inOdessathat the
government is going to analyze all consequencesand issues around the canal, including
environmental impact and compliance with international agreements. The EIA documentation
for the second and last stage o f the canal was given for public review inDecember 2004, andin
September 2005 the government plansto organize a conference on development o fthe Danube
region. Evenso, ships still go through the canal, there has beenno annulment o f the Presidential
Decrees cutting the reserve inhalf andthe criminal prosecutionagainst the Reserve Authority
brought by the M O T continues.

BANKPERFORMANCE

        Overall Bank performanceis rated as satisfactory.The project was thoroughly
preparedand drew extensively onthe experience ofthe biodiversity issues foundwhen designing
theRomanianDanube DeltaBiodiversityProject. Thus the project designprovidedthe basis for
a coherent approach to biodiversity conservation inthe region. Supervision was very effective

24. PersonalCommunication. Dr.Andriy Andrusevych, ExecutiveDirector ofEcopravo-Lviv (Environmental
Public Advocacy Center). April 10,2005.

                                                          16


  andall Ukrainianofficials andReserve staffwere very complimentary about the quality,
  knowledge, and experience of Bank staff, their understanding o f local issues andproblems, and
  their ability to work at the local, national, andinternational levels andbringingNGOs,
  government, andother donors to assist development o fthe Reserve Authority. The only
  shortcomingwas that supervision was sidetracked by procurement problems related to new
  Ukrainian legislation at a time when the project needed more attention to developing instruments
  for participatory management.

  BORROWERPERFORMANCE

            Borrower performanceis rated as unsatisfactory.The UkrainianAcademy of
  Sciences and its Reserve Authority staff performed exceedingly well duringproject preparation
 and implementation. This wealth o f expertise, enabled by the project fbnding, led to the
 production o f scientific work, research, and conservation to international standards. Reserve
 Authority staff have actively engaged ininternationalexchange and cooperation to enhance their
 skills and the management of the Reserve. The major shortcoming has been that the more purist
 outlook o f the Reserve Authority's scientific staff sometimes conflicted with the practical aspects
 o f makinga reserve viable, specifically developing working partnershipswith the surrounding
 communities andparticipatory management o f the biosphere reserve. Inconsequence, the
 Reserve i s not managed according to all accepted biosphere principles (Table 3.)
 Table 3: UNESCO'sprinciplesof Biospheremanagementare only partially addressed

  Definition: A biospherereserve is a unique concept which includes one or moreprotected areas and
  surrounding lands that are managed to combine both conservation and sustainable use of natural
  resources.

                                        Principles                                       Current Status
  Eachbiosphere reserve conserves examples o f characteristic ecosystems of one o f
  the world's natural regions, managed for their protection and study.                   Yes but under
                                                                                         threat from the
                                                                                         Bustroy Canal
  Itis a regional centre for monitoring, research, education andtraining onnaturaland
  managed ecosystems.                                                                         Yes

  It is a landandor coastal/marine area inwhich people are an integral component,
  and which is managedfor objectives ranging from complete protectionto intensive       No, people are

  yet sustainable production.                                                               missing

  Itis a place where government decision makers, scientists, managers and local
  people cooperate indeveloping a model program for managing land and water to         No, local people

  meet human needs while conserving natural processes and biological resources.           are missing


  Finally, each biosphere reserve is a symbol of voluntary cooperation to conserve and     Voluntary
  use resources for the well being of people everywhere.                                 cooperation i s
                                                                                       limited to NGOs


           The government was very supportive o fthe project at inceptionand through
implementation, and worked hardto pass the requiredlegislation to create the Biosphere
Reserve. Counterpart funding, despite financial difficulties at the center later inthe project, was
timely and according to plan, demonstrating the government's continuedownership ofthe
project. This status continued for four years after project closure, but in2003 the Ministryo f

                                                     17


 Transport prevailed intheir determination to construct the Bustroy Canal. This not only had
 severe ramifications for the integrityo f the Biosphere Reserve, it also rancounter to a number o f
 international agreements that Ukraine had accededto since Independence. It also set the
 Academy of Sciences andthe UkrainianNGO and international NGO communities against the
 Kuchma government. Thus the future o fthe Reserve and its staff i s insome doubt, accentuated
 bythe government's subsequentunilateral actions. As aresult borrower performance is rated as
 unsatisfactory despitethe generally good record o f the implementingagency.


 4.       Findingsand Lessons

         The objective ofthe project to establish a viable biosphere reserve was substantially
 established but with some shortcomings, the main one being very modest progress on developing
 stakeholder participationinthe management of the reserve authority.
         The organizational setup ofthe Reserve Authority inwhich the Academy of Sciences
 managesthe reserve and scientific research is not working well as it creates a number o f conflicts
o f interest between the scientific agenda andmanagement needs. A better model may be to set up
a separate reserve management authority that deals with administration, public relations,
territorial access, and regulation andthis could be staffed and managed by the Ministryof the
Environment that has the greater public interest as one o f its responsibilities. The Academy o f
Sciences could then establish a biosphere reserve scientific institute to deal with the scientific
aspects o f research and conservation. Such a model has beensuccessfully adopted inRomania.
         More attention to involvement o f local stakeholders inthe management o f the reserve
mighthave reduced the perceptions that the reserve staffis a fairly elitist group who are not
concerned with the local economic interests. Because this was not done, the MOT found local
communities willing to support their proposal to cut the reserve intwo because it potentially
better served the locals' economic interest. The prosecutions brought against the reserve
authority were basedon allegations brought by local citizens that the Reserve Authority was
misappropriating revenues generated by activities inthe Biosphere Reserve. These allegations
are strongly denied by the reserve staff who allege political intimidation, and the matter i s still
subjudice.
         Participationo f stakeholders inproject designand implementation was a newpractice in
the early 1990s when thisproject was beingdesigned and it took several years to understand
what works best. Comprehensive evaluationo fparticipatory experience only started to emerge in
1997 following a number of studies by the Bank, GEF and OED's thematic study Participation
Process Review (2001.)25 More recently, UNDP/GEFproduced guidelines to improve the design

25. The World Bank. 1997.A Review of Participationinthe World Bank's GEF Portfolio. Environmental
Department Dissemination Notes. No.52. March 1997.
The World Bank.2002. Biological Resource Management -IntegratingBiodiversity Concerns inRural
Development Projects and Programs. Robin Grimble and Martyn Laidlaw. Environment Department Papers.
Paper No. 85. January 2002.
The World Bank. 2004. Participatory Conservation for Protected Areas - An Annotated Bibliography of
Selected Sources (1996-2001). Nancy Diamond, ElisabethNkrumah andAlan Isaac. Environment Department
Papers. Paper No. 95. January 2004.

                                                        18


 of small business development strategies inbiodiversityprojects, recognizingthat sustaining
 benefitstreams for local stakeholders is a key development challenge.26Many oftheir findings
 resonate with the lessons derivedfrom this evaluation. These are to build participation as soon as
 possible and recognize that significant project resources may neededfor local capacity building;
 use neutralparties to engenderparticipation; seek ways to increase income potential from
 ecosystems targeted for conservation; provide alternatives to biodiversity-damagingactivities;
 and generate sufficient income at the boundary o f protected areas to reduce encroachment.
           The Bustroy Canal, which splits the strict reserve area into two, raises two questions.
 First,how big should a protectedareabeto remainviable for biodiversity conservation? Second,
 what should be the scope of an EIA o f infrastructure development affectingprotected areas?
           More researchmay be neededto correctly size the Danube delta biodiversity
 conservation area inUkraine - the strictly protected area at almost 15,000 ha forms about a third
 of the biodiversity conservation reserve. Conversely, inthe almost identical landscape inthe
 Romanianportion o f the delta, their 15 strictly protected areas intotal cover less than ten percent
 o f the total reserve area, rangingfrom 50 hato 21,410 ha.27It i s unclear how far the size o fthese
 various areas meets the criteria for well-designed conservation landscapes.Are there with
 representative systems o f conservation areas o f sufficient size, condition and connectivity to
 maintain eventhe most sensitive species and ecological process?28Part of the MOT'Sargument
 infavor ofthe Canal isthat the Romaniadeltareserve is bisectedbythe SulimaCanal with few
 illeffectsandthattheirapparentlyviablestrictlyreservedsubareasareonaveragesmallerand
 widely dispersed. Thus a first step inmaking a decision about the environmental impacts o f the
 Canal on biodiversity would be to identify the critical delta ecosystems that needprotection and
 directing scientific research to scale the area o f contiguous habitat neededto maintainthem.
          A whole series ofregional development issues may also affect the firture viability o fthe
 Danube Biosphere Reserve. Many ofthe objections to the canal proposal are based on lack o f
 dueprocess andthe very narrow scope ofthe environmentalimpact assessmentthat only looked
 at the local economy rather than looking at a more regional level that is necessaryto fully
 understand the dynamics of the Black Sea-Danubenavigational system.

The Future-Shouldthe BankGet Involved?
          The Bustroy controversy raises four issues that are germane to the Bank's missionin
Ukraine:

     0    The Canal has potentially adverse effects on the sustainability of a completed GEF/Bank
          investment.

     0    Itis important that Ukraine abides bythe internationalagreements andconventions it has
          signed.



26. UNDP/GEF. 2003. Local Business for Biodiversity Conservation. Andrew Bovanick and Ajay Gupta
(Authors). August 2003.
27. Strictly protected area Nos. 8 (ArinigulErenciuc) and 10 (Sacalin-Zatoane).
28. Olsen, DavidM.,E.Dinnerestein, G.V.N. Powell and E.D.Wickramanayake. 2002. Conservation Biology
for the Biodiversity Crises. Conservation Biology Editorial. Vol. 16, No. 1, pages 1-3, February 2002.

                                                19


         Fighting corruption, ensuringgood governance andpromoting the rule o f law are key to
         the sustainability ofthe Bank's investments.
         Important investmentdecisions should be made only after sound economic,
         environmental, and social appraisal to ensure the best use o f resources and stakeholder
         buy-in.Failingto ensurethat Ukraine applies the higheststandardsto investment
         decisions affecting a GEF/Bank financed project would sendthe wrong signal to
         government.


 WHAT VALUEWOULDTHEBANKADD?

         The Bustroy Canal is a reactionto inadequate economic development inthe
 Pridunajskogo regiono f southwest Ukraine, motivatedby frustrationthat Romania i s getting the
 lion's share of the Danubenavigationand transit benefits, a sense that Ukraine must secure its
 frontier against the incursion o f the expandedEU, and anger at havingto pay an estimated US$l
 milliodyear intransit fees to Romania. Inreality, however, the Bustroy Canal may become
 irrelevant as the Black Sea-Danube regional navigationsystem continues to evolve. The Bank i s
 uniquelyplaced to bringcross-sectoral perspective to the table and anintegrated approach to a
 transboundary problem.

 WHATSHOULD BECONSIDERED?

        Putthe BustroyCanalincontext.The real issue is not environmental but one o f
 regional economic development andtrade. Navigation i sjust a meansto achieving these broader
 objectives and the investmentdecision should be based on the benefits and costs o f navigation,
taking environmental aspectsinto account. The demand for localnavigationvia the Danube river
 inthe Ukraine, Moldova, andnortheastern Romanianeedsto becarefully appraised. The MOT is
 arguingthat towns along the Ukrainianpart ofthe Danube(Izmail andReni) are ineconomic
decline because o f silting o f the "Ochakivsky Rukuv" waterway and the Porva Canal, and the
highcost ofusingthe Selima Canal inRomaniato reachthese towns. Inpractice, it couldbethat
navigationhas declined becauseo f falling production inthe region. It is, o f course, possible that
production will increase inthe future, but this needs to be assessed based on likely regional
development scenarios. Fewforeign ships use the Ukrainianaccessto the Danube because
transaction costs are highandthere i s little economic activity. Even so, MOTC believes the
Bustroy Canal is neededbecause (according to them) Danube transportation tonnage will
increase 300 percent by 2015, attracting foreign ships to Ukrainiannavigationfrom the
Romanian Danubetransport system.
        The BustroyCanalis unlikelyto be competitivefor regionalcargoes. The Black Sea-
Danube navigationsystemwill be upgraded inthe mediumterm andthis will make the Danube
Deltaportionredundant except for local shipping. The Danube flows easterly along the southern
border o f Romaniaand at Cernovoda inRomania, 65 kilometers from the Black Sea, it turns
north to flow another 300 kilometers before discharging through the DanubeDelta. The
Constanta Canal, 7 to 8.5 meters deep and capable o f taking 5.5-meter draft ships, connects
Cernovoda via a single set of lock gates to Constanta, Romania's biggestport inthe western
Black Sea. Thus the Constanta Canal saves 300 kilometers o f slow river navigation and avoids
time-consuming Ukrainiancustoms and immigration checkpoints. There are discussion in

                                                20


Romania about upgradingthe Constanta Canal by improving the lock and increasing the draft
would enable it to cater for all potential users of the canal except those wanting to dock in
Ukraine andMoldova.
        Determinethe true costs of the canalproposaland realisticalternatives. Current cost
estimates for the Bustroy Canal are confinedto engineeringthe canal and do not include
operation andmaintenance or other costs (e.g., environmental). Giventhat some cargoes will
needto betransferred from deeper-draft ships, a transfer port facility plus support infrastructure
would also be needed andthis would probably be located inthe reserve area. Thus the cost base
needs comprehensive appraisal. Determiningthe likely environmental impacts (andbenefits) will
require transboundary analysis notjust of the impacts on the biosphere reserves, but on the
regionas a whole. This would include modeling the effect of deepening the Bustroy channel on
theregional flow patterns andwater quality inthe Danubedistributaries. Changed flow regimes
would also affect the delta and near-shore sedimentation patterns andmay affect navigation in
Romania. Changed water quality could affect seasonal fish-spawning patterns, fish stocks,
aquatic flora, andbirdmigration andbreedingpatterns.

LESSONS

       Experience with this project confirms a number o f OED lessons:

   0   Biodiversity conservation cannot be carried out inisolation. Ithas to be integrated within
       the economic interests o f local andregional communities. Resentmenti s created when
       financing o f nature conservation appears to have preference over unmet local needs, be it
       delivery ofbasic services or employment. Failureto integrate local interestsinthe
       conservation and management strategy o f a biosphere reserve can endanger its longer-
       term sustainability.

   0   Conservation areas will be sustainable only ifthere i s good management and sufficient
       funding to maintain it, Thus it i s incumbent upon GEF project designersto facilitate
       establishment o f sound management and governance arrangements that include local
       stakeholders andpromote income-generating activities that will provide sustainable
      income for management.

   0  Biodiversity conservation may require trade-offs, particularly on the size of the restricted
      area inwhich all economic and humanactivities are banned. Too large an area creates
      very highoverheads on policing andregulation andpossibly strong local oppositionthat
      may undermine longer-term sustainability. The size o fthe area depends onthe
      conservation objectives. Thus there should be sufficient funding and time to facilitate
      agreement on the species and/or landscapethat are the targets o f conservation, and for
      research to determine requiredminimumviable habitats/landscapes andtheir connectivity
      to larger-scale ecosystems.

  0   When establishing biodiversity reserves it i s important to promote networking of the
      reserve staff with the national and internationalNGOs and promote recognitionby
      internationalconventions. By doing so, a supportive network can be created that can
      quickly mobilized to support the objectives o f conservation management should these be
      threatened by political, financial, or disaster-related events.

                                                      21                                      Annex A


 Annex A: BasicData Sheet


 UKRAINE DANUBEDELTA BIODIVERSITYPROJECT(GET GRANT 28654)

 Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                             Appraisal           Actual or                  % of
                                              estimate        current estimate   amraisalas
                                                                                  ,.Actual estimate
Total project costs                            1.54                1.74                 113
Loan amount
Cofinancing                                                          _-                   _-
Cancellation                                     __--              0.01                  --

Cumulative Estimatedand Actual Disbursements
                           FY93      FY94    FY95         FY96     FY97       FY98     FY99       FYOO
Appraisal estimate          0        0.2     0.6           1.1       1.4      1.6       1.6        1.6
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)               0        0.1     0.4           0.7      0.9       1.4       1.6        1.6
Actual as % of appraisal    -         50      66           64        64       87        100       100
Date of final disbursement: June 4, 1999


ProjectDates
                                                      Original                     Actual
Initiating memorandum                                   11/01                      11/91
Appraisal                                               9/93                        9/93
Negotiations                                            4/94                        5/94
Board approval                                          4/94                     0711911994
Signing                                                 4/94                        7/94
Effectiveness                                           4/94                        8/94
Closing date                                           12/98                        6/99


Staff Inputs(staff weeks)
                                         Planned                               Actual
                                  Weeks              US$              Weeks              US$
Preparation to appraisal            Na               Na                12.5             37100
Appraisal                           Na               Na                 0.3             6000
Negotiations thru board             Na               Na                 0.6             2000
Supervision                         Na               Ba                61.7            209800
Completion                          8.7           28100                 8.0             29800
Total                                _-               __               84.1            284700

                                                           22                                            Annex A


Mission Data
                     Date        No. of      Staff   Specializations    Impelem.         Dev          Types of
                (month/year) persons        days in   represented         status       Oectives      problems
                                             field
Identification1       Na           Na         Na          E, B
Preparation
Appraisal             Na           Na         na          E. B
Supervision          9/94          6           8         E, 8, P             S             S             P
                    12/94          1           6           B                 S             S             P
                     6/95          2           3          B, E               S             S             P
                     6/96          1           7           B                 s .           S
                     2/97          2           8           B                 S             S             P
                     5/97          2           8           B                 Na           Na
                     6/97          4          11          8, C               S             S
                     2/98          3          12           B                 S             S


                     9/98          1           1           B                 S             S
Completion           4/99          2           7           B                 S             S
E= Economist, B=BiodiversityMletlands Specialist, p= Procurement Specialist, C = Construction Specialist,
S = Satisfactory, P = Procurement


Other ProjectData
BorrowerIExecutingAgency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATlONS
Operation                                               Credit no.           Amount             Boarddate
                                                                         (US$ million)
Donetsk Environment Project                                 na                 na                     na
Biodiversity Conservation in the Azov-Black Sea          TF28267              32.5               1/22/2002
Cooridor

