GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
- - ;  Ukraine, 
Danube Delta Biodiversitly
*               \    -        N    -   *  >  4 j;,   * X~~~- 
* ~  ~ .. ..
Proje'ct Document          /
_ _ My1_994   _                                _ ,
THE WORLD 9SANK
!-                          4             ,                   _
t      ts-- 



GEF Documentation
fhe Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity,.and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
-bythe United Nations Development Programme,the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
EnvironmentDepartment.
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 204h3
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12575-UA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA COUNTRY DEPARTMENT I
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 1.10 MILLION (US$1.50 MILLION)
TO
UKRAINE
FOR A
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
PART I: MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
May 25, 1994
Natural Resource Management Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region






IJKRAIN~
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Recillien:                    Ukraine
Cofinan:ier:                  Not applicable
Beneficiaries:                Ministry of Environmental Protection, Danube Plavny
Reserve Authority, Scientific Institutes under the
Academy of Sciences, Municipality of Vilkovo
Amount:                       SDR 1.1 million
Terms:                        Grant
Financing Pli                 GET  US$1.50 million equivalent
GOU US$0.24 million equivalent
Total US$1.74 million equivalent
Economri Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Map:                          IBRD 25412



I



UKRAINE
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Backizround
1.    The Ukrainian part of the Danube Delta and its associated wetlands cover some
150,000 ha in the southwest part of the Odessa region. The Kiliya branch of the Danube,
with 60% of its total flow, forms the border between Romania and Ukraine, but for its last
part lies entirely within Ukraine. The delta region encompasses a large number of islands,
marshes, tributaries and canals, lakes with aquatic plants, and a mosaic of forests, grasslands
and dunes in the wetland area. The lagoons or limans to the north of the Kiliya branch are a
special feature of the Ukrainian Danube Delta wetland system. Land formations in the delta
are dynamic, and within the last 10 to 20 years a new generation of islands has been formed.
Currently only 15,000 ha of the Ukrainian part of the Delta are protected, in the Danube
Plavny (DP) nature reserve (Zapovednik).
2.    Five patterns of vegetation may be noted in the delta and limans: the floodplain and
estuarine vegetation; riverine and floodplain forests; young and old coastal ridges including a
xerothermic vegetation unique to Ukraine; steppe areas, including refugia of festuca and stiga
steppes; and lakes and limans, which were major spawning grounds for fish before being
separated from the Danube by construction of low dams for irrigation. The flora of the DP
comprise 563 identified species, or over 11 % of Ukrainian flora. These include some
unique flora complexes. Fauna consist of more than 5,000 species, including 153 species of
nesting birds, and 320 species of visiting birds. These include the rare pygmy cormorant and
red-breasted goose, and the common and Dalmatian pelican. Mammals include the otter,
muskrat, mink, little ermine, and wildcat. Ichthyofauna are represented by 72 species.
There is strong evidence that some species are in decline due to pollution and overfishing.
3.    The DP Reserve Authority (DPA) is an independent entity under the Academy of S
ciences. It operates out of the town of Vilkovo, which is of unusual architectural and cultural
interest. DPA includes only six scientific researchers, four guards and five administrative
employees. Its budget is very limited, and until recently it has had very few international
contacts. The DPA currently has control only over the land, not the water, in the reserve.
The protected area is presently unpopulated except for some summer cottages, although there
are small gardens and some cattle grazing. Most of the DPA work to date has been directed
towards scientific research rather than protected area management.
4.    The Ukrainian delta region is fairly densely populated, with 68,000 people in the
Kiliya rayon of 1,400 kin2, including a rural population of 32,000. Agricultural land, mostly
irrigated, covers 70,000 ha, with wheat, grapes, maize, sunflower, rice and fodder crops
predominating. Yields are reportedly reasonable, though the quality of water from the lakes
developed for irrigation is deteriorating. Livestock raising is important. Fishing employs
about 600 and port activities about 2,000 people. Hunting is also of some importance in the
Ukrainian delta wetlands with about 30,000 kills per year, including birds and mammals.
The level of economic activity is thus much higher than in the Romanian part of the delta.
Development of land for irrigated agriculture, including construction of dykes, polders and



- 2 -
lakes, has had a particularly adverse affect on water quality, water flow and wetland
ecosystems in and around the delta.
5.    While the Romanian delta has been the focus of considerable international interest, the
Ukrainian portion of the delta has as yet received very little support from the international
community, except from the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), which has provided some limited
assistance and training to the DPA. Yet the Danube Delta functions as an integrated series of
ecosystems, all of which require protection.
6.    While Ukraine has moved more slowly than Romania in protecting the delta, there has
to date been considerably more focus in Ukraine than in Romania in Bank sector dialogue on
protected area and natural resource management. A small GEF biodiversity project for the
East Carpathian mountains has been approved, and a GEF project coordination unit has been
established in the Ministry for Environmental Protection (MEP). MEP attaches high priority
to the project and has participated actively in preparation activities. A seminar attended by
local economic and community groups and the national scientific community was organized in
Vilkovo during project preparation, and there is strong local interest in the project.
7.    Prpjjct obiectiYv. The Project aims to protect and enhance the Ukrainian portion of
the delta ecosystems, contributing to conservation of biodiversity within the delta. The
Project would strengthen the capacity of DPA to expand and manage the protected areas
effectively, and to work with local community groups to ensure sustainable resource use.
The Project will be coordinated closely with the GEF Romania Danube Delta Biodiversity
Project, and with the GEF and multi-donor supported Danube River Basin and Black Sea
Environment Programs, and is expected to demonstrate the value of a coordinated approach
to solving water management and biodiversity problems with transborder linkages.
8.    Priect Activities. The Project would finance:
(a)   Institutional strengthening (US$750,000): the Project would provide for the
expansion and restructuring of DPA to develop and implement effective
management plans for protected areas in and around the delta, through training
and technical assistance, and provision of infrastructure including an office and
visitors centre, construction of a house for the director, office, transport and
scientific equipment and its maintenance. Staff would be increased to a total of
50, and divided into sections, focusing on park management (wardens),
biosphere reserve development, wetland monitoring and research, public
awareness and administration;
(b)   Strengthening the warden's section (US$167,000), through staff increases to a
total of 20, training in patrolling and protected area management, provision of
equipment, and field office and residential accommodation;
(c)   Strengthening monitoring and database management (US$110,000), including
ecosystems surveys and species inventories, database creation and



- 3 -
management, and development of the scientific basis for resource use and
management plans;
(d)   Pilot wetland restoration (US$300,000), including restoration of hydrological
circulation to the Stentsovsko-Zhebrijanskie Plavni (SZP), pilot protection from
Danube water of one lake ("kut") in the DP reserve and monitoring of the
impact, restoration of the Vilkovo town canals, studies for restoration of
Yermakov island partially being used by the Pogranichnik Sovkhoz for cattle
and horse breeding, and studies of marketing alternatives for ecologically-
friendly cultivated produce from the Lenin fisheries kolkhoz;
(e)   Public awareness and community involvement in protected area management
(US$131,000) both by DPA staff and non-governmental organizations (NGOs),
including the Ecological Club of Vilkovo, the Nature Protection and
Regeneration Fund, and Odessa Zoo;
(f)   Developing and implementing a programme for protected area expansion and
creation of a biosphere reserve (US$60,000), through land use studies and
using information provided from monitoring, and community participation.
The aim would be to expand protected areas from 15,000 ha to 34,000 ha over
the project life, focusing on the Kiliya estuary and the Stentsovsko-
Zhebrijanskie Plavny, within a biosphere reserve covering 67,000 ha;
(g)   Coordination with GEF activities in Romania and the GEF Black Sea
Environmental Management Program (US$11,000); and
(h)   Technical expertise to prepare an endowment fund to finance the recurrent
costs of expanded protected areas in a second phase (US$12,000).
9.    Project Implementation. The MEP would have overall responsibility for the project,
including procurement, disbursement, maintenance of project accounts and coordination of
implementation. MEP staff would provide initial assistance to DPA staff in establishing
project implementation schedules and reporting procedures, and would assist in obtaining
assistance from other institutes for implementation of the various components. Day-to-day
responsibility for project implementation would be with the DPA, whose staff are being
increased and trained to take on their new expanded role. Although small, the Project
requires the support of several agencies for its effective implementation. A foreign advisor
would assist DPA and MEP in project management and implementation through periodic
visits through the project period. WWF experts would assist with implementation of the
biosphere expansion, monitoring and public awareness activities, and International Wetland
and Wildlife Research Bureau (IWRB) experts on bird monitoring and public awareness
connected with this. A small scientific advisory committee would be established, consisting
of experts from the MEP, the Academy of Sciences, and experts in protected area
management, which would meet quarterly to review work accomplished and offer advice and
assistance. It would report to the Deputy Minister responsible for protected areas in MEP.



- 4 -
10.   MEP and the Academy of Sciences would be responsible for the strengthening of the
DPA; increased staff would be provided by the Academy of Sciences, which would have
responsibility for scientific coordination and implementation support. The DPA has recently
been established as an independent institute directly under the Academy of Sciences. The
activities connected with protected area expansion would be implemented by DPA and NGOs
with the help of the MEP, the WWF and the Ukrainian Land Design Institute. The
monitoring would be implemented by the DPA experts (and WWF) with assistance from the
relevant specialized institutes, including the Institute of Zoology for reptiles and birds, the
Institute of the Biology of the Southern Seas for hydrobiological monitoring, and the
Ukrainian Scientific Center of Ecology for hydrochemical monitoring. As regards wetland
restoration, the Government Organization for Aquatic Economy and the Odessa-based
Hydrometereological Institute would assist with the SZP wetlands restoration and lake
protection in the DP, the Ukrainian Land Design Institute with the study on Yermakov, and
the municipality of Vilkovo with town canals rehabilitation. Local NGOs (the Ecological
Club of Vilkovo, the Odessa Zoo and the Nature Protection and Regeneration Fund) would
assist the DPA and MEP with the public awareness component.
11.  Project sustainability. One important element of the Project is to build up the capacity
of the DPA, through training, TA and staff expansion, to manage the protected areas of the
delta effectively. Public participation is built into the program to expand protected and buffer
areas and introduce management plans: this should ensure their social sustainability.
Financial sustainability is a serious issue; annual recurrent costs are estimated at US$47,000.
This compares with the current annual DP budget of US$3,000. The project will include
support for preparation of an endowment fund which could finance the recurrent costs of
protected area management in a second phase: increased revenues from tourism and
controlled hunting could also eventually meet some of the management costs of the DP.
12.   Lessons from previous Bank involvement. Ukraine is a new member state. Thorough
understanding of the necessary procedures for project administration are, therefore, especially
important. Experience with previous biodiversity projects has illustrated the importance of
securing the support of local communities for protected area management and for adapting
project design to the capacity of implementing institutions.
13.   Community Participation. The biosphere expansion and protected area management
plan activities have been designed to assure substantial involvement of local communities
through a series of meetings and workshops, organized both by the DPA and local NGOs as
also mentioned in paras. 10 and 11. The Project also supports public awareness activities in
the local community not only by DPA staff, but also by local and regional NGOs and in
schools. Restoration of the canals of Vilkovo will also promote greater environmental
awareness by local inhabitants.
14.   Monitoring and Evaluation. Impact monitoring is built into the key wetland
restoration activities, in particular water quality and ecosystem monitoring in the SZP.
Ecosystems monitoring would also be strengthened, including flora, fauna and hydrobiology,
and the project would support the creation and management of a uniform database (also see



- 5 -
para 11). Project achievement indicators have also been established, and short quarterly and
longer annual reports would be produced. Funds are provided to publish research and
monitoring activities. Support for coordination with Romania, the Black Sea Environmental
Management Plan and other regional initiatives will also provide an opportunity for sharing
wetland management experience.
15.   Rationale for GEF funding. The Project, together with the Romania GEF Danube
Delta project, forms the link between the GEF Danube Basin and Black Sea projects, and
these three projects together will support environmental management of an international
waterway; 60% of the Danube water flows down the Kiliya branch. The Danube Delta,
Europe's largest remaining natural wetland, represents an ecosystem of international
importance, and the Ukrainian part of the delta has its own unique characteristics. The
Danube Delta project also provides a pilot for emerging biodiversity initiatives under the
regional Black Sea project.
16.   Actions Agreed Upon. At negotiations, the Recipient agreed to or confirmed the
following:
(a)   a staffing plan and budget for it;
(b)   the implementation arrangements outlined above;
(c)   Project implementation schedule, together with an agreed schedule of project
progress reporting, and a mid-term review after two years;
(d)   land was available for the new DPA headquarters;
(e)   appropriate arrangements for procurement, disbursement and maintenance of
Project accounts; and
(f)   the DPA has now been established as an independent entity directly under the
Academy of Sciences.
17.   Environmental aspects. The Project would have a positive impact on the biodiversity
of the Danube Delta. The most important concern is the need for the Project to have the
support of the local population. This will be ensured by participation of local economic
interest groups, elected and community groups in decisions to expand protected areas,
redefine core and buffer zones and develop management strategies, through rehabilitation of
Vilkovo's internal canals, and through environmental awareness programs. The project has
been assigned Environmental Category C.
18.   Project benefit. The Project will support a reorientation in DPA management from
scientific research to protected area management and biodiversity conservation; while taking
into account the interests of the local population. Improved monitoring will increase
understanding of the processes in the delta; wetland restoration will enhance biodiversity,



- 6 -
while preparation of participatory management plans for expanded protected areas will
introduce integrated management to the entire delta and surrounding wetland ecosystems.
19.   Risks. The most serious risk concerns the implementation capacity of the DPA, and
the feasibility of expanding the protected areas as envisaged under the project. A second risk
concerns the level of financial support the DPA will receive from the MEP and Academy of
Sciences. The third risk concerns the difficulty of securing local public support for
protected area management. The first risk is addressed through building substantial training
and technical assistance into project design, as well as support from other specialized
institutes. Secondly, MEP and the Academy of Sciences are committed to the Project; their
level of budgetary support will be secured at Negotiations. Also, the project would provide
the technical expertise for the establishment of an Endowment Fund to meet future
operational expenses. Finally, considerable public participation has been built into several
components, in particular the biosphere expansion component, to secure the needed level of
local support.
Attachments
Washington, D. C.



-7-
SCHEDULE A
UKRAINE
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
Cost Estimates
%    % Total
(US$ '000 eguivalent)     Foreign  Base
Local    Foreign     Total   Exchange Costs
Components:
1. DPA Strengthening             561.0      189.8     750.8       25      49
2. Warden Strengthening          157.8        8.9      166.8       5      11
3. Monitoring, Database Management  77.7     32.7      110.4      30       7
4. Wetland Restoration           218.1       82.7      300.8      28      20
5. Public Awareness                2.0      129.4      131.4      98       9
6. Biosphere Reserve Establishment   27.2    32.3       59.5      54       4
7. Regional Initiatives & Coordination   -   10.7       10.7     100       1
8. Endowment Fund Establishment    2.6        9.6       12.2      79       1
TOTAL                           1,046.3     496.2    1,542.6      32    100
Physical Contingencies           104.6       49.6      154.3      32      10
Price Contingencies               27.2       13.3       40.5      33       3
GRAND TOTAL                     1,178.1     559.2    1,737.3      32    113
Financing Plan (US$ Million)
Local    Foreign     Total
GEF                          0.94       0.56       1.50
GOU                          0.24*      0.0        0.24
* Plus contribution in kind (research facilities, incremental staff, etc.).



-8-
SCHEDULE B
UKRAINE
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
Procurement and Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Procurement Methods (US$ million equivalent)
ICB       LCB        Other    Total
Civil Works              -          -         0.75'     0.75
(0.60)    (0.60)
Goods                    -          -         0.482     0.48
(0.44)    (0.44)
Foreign Training, TA &   -          -         0.353     0.35
Workshop                                    (0.35)    (0.35)
Recurrent Costs          -          -         0.164     0.16
(0.12)    (0.12)
Total                -          -         1.74      1.74
_        _         (1.5)     (1.5)
" Local shopping.
2/ Local shopping (US$200,000) and international shopping (US$280,000)
3'  IBRD Guidelines for procurement of consultants and training services.
41  Procedures acceptable to IBRD.
(Figures in parentheses indicate sums financed by GEF; figures may not
add up to exactly US$1.5 million due to rounding.)
Disbursements Categories
Categorv                         GEF Grant Allocation            Amount
(US$M equivalent)
Civil Works                      80% of total expenditures        0.5
Goods                            100% of expenditures            0.4
Seminars, Training, TA           100% of expenditures            0.35
Recurrent Costs                  100% of expenditures             0.12*
Unallocated                                                       0.13
1.5
* Including fuel, materials and office supplies and maintenance of goods purchased
under the project, and excluding salaries and utilities.
Estimated Disbursement Schedule (US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year     FY95       FY96          FY97          FY98
Annual                0.4         0.5          0.4          0.2
Cumulative            0.4         0.9          1.3           1.5



-9-
UKRAINE
Timelable of Key Processing Fvents
(a) Time taken to prepare:            18 months
(b) Prepared by:                      Ministry of Environment Protection,
Academy of Sciences with the
Assistance of Consultants
(c) First Bank mission:               May 1992
(d) Appraisal mission departure:      September 1993
(e) Negotiations:                     April 1994
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:    May 1994
(g) List of relevant PCRs and
PPARs:                            None
m:U&y\dawbcem-dir.ukr
Supinber 13, 1994






Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12575-UA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA COUNTRY DEPARTMENT I
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 1.10 MILLION (US$1.50 MILLION)
TO
UKRAINE
FOR A
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
PART I: MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
PART II. TECHNICAL ANNEX
May 25, 1994
Natural Resource Management Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Ukrainian Karbovanski (Kb)
US$1  =  Kb 1,002(Jan. 1993)
US$1  =  Kb 3,000 (April 1993)
US$1  =  Kb 3,980 (June 1993)
US$1  =  Kb 16,950 (Sept. 1993)
US$1  =  Kb 31,150 (Nov. 1993)
US$1  =  Kb 25,000 (Dec. 1993)
US$1  =  Kb 44,000 (May 1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
ABBREVIATIONS
DP          -   Danube Plavny Reserve
DPA         -   Danube Plavny Reserve Authority
EBRD        -   European Bank of Reconstruction and Development
GEF         -   Global Environment Trust Fund
GIS         -   Geographical Information System
IGCN        -   Nature Conservation Union
IWRB        -   International Waterfowl and Wetland Research Bureau
MEP         -   Ministry for Environmental Protection
NGO         -   Non-governmental Organization
NPRF        -   Nature Protection Restoration Fund
RAMSAR    -   Convention on Wetlands of International Importance
especially as regards Waterfowl Habitat (Ramsar 1971)
SPOT        -   Satellite pour L'observation de la Terre
SZP         -   Stentsovsko-Zhebrijanskie  Plavny
WWF         -   World Wildlife Fund
UKRAINE - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT (UKRAINE)
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND    ...........                        ........................   1
A.  Significance of the Danube Delta .......................   1
B.   Flora and Fauna  .................................   2
C. Hydrology . .................................... 4
D.  Economic and Human Activity  ........................  6
E.  Project Justification and Regional Initiatives  ................  9
II.  INSTITUTIONAL SETTING  ............................ 10
A. System of Reserved Area Management and
Key Central Agencies .............................. 10
B.  Danube Plavny Reserve Authority   ...................... 11
C.  Other Organizations ............................... 12
IlI.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION   ............................. 13
A.  Project Summary             ..............              .................. 13
B.  Detailed Project Description  .......................... 14
Component 1: Danube Plavny Authority Strengthening  ...                     ...... 14
Component 2: Warden Strengthening  .................... 17
Component 3: Monitoring and Database Management ....                        ...... 20
Component 4: Wetland Restoration  ..................... 25
Component 5: Public Awareness   ...................... 28
Component 6: Biosphere Reserve Establishment  ............. 33
Component 7: Regional Initiatives and Coordination ....                    ....... 36
Component 8: Endowment Fund Establishment .............. 37
C.  Project Costs         ................               ................... 38
D.  Procurement           ................               ................... 39
E. Disbursements ...                          ...... 40



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
IV.  IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING   .....                   ............. 41
A. Project Organization and Implementation .....       ............. 41
B.  Project Monitoring and Supervision  ......      ............... 43
C.  Public Participation . .............................. 43
D. Project Benefits and Risks ..........       ................. 43
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED ............................. 44
List of Tables
'fable 1: Danube Plavny Authority Staff/Plan Expansion
Table 2: Project Cost Summary
Table 3: Financing Plan
Table 4: Procurement Financed by GEF
Table 5: Disbursements
Table 6: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
List of Annexes
Annex 1: Project Costs
Annex 2: Implementation Plan
Annex 3: 'rerms of Reference for Technical Assistance
Annex 4: Documents Available in Project File
Rap
IBRD No. 25412



GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT (UKRAINE)
TECHNICAL ANNEX
I. BACKGROUND
A. Significance of the Danube Delta
1.01 The Danube Delta is the largest and least damaged wetland complex in Europe,
covering about 600,000 ha, including 150,000 ha in Ukraine and 442,000 ha in Romania. It
is an extensive network of river tributaries, canals, lakes and reed swamps, floodplains,
alluvial islands as well as high ground forests, meadows, sandy grasslands and dunes, which
interact to form a mosaic of terrestrial and aquatic habitats, each supporting a rich
biodiversity of flora and fauna species.
1.02 While the Romanian delta is sparsely populated (15,000 people) and has been declared
a biosphere reserve with 53,000 ha under strict protection, only 15,000 ha of the Ukrainian
delta and wetlands are currently protected and population density is much higher (68,000).
One-third of the total area of 150,000 ha is under irrigated agriculture, while there is little or
no irrigation in the Romanian delta and less than one-tenth of the area has been polderised
for agriculture.
1.03 The Delta's terrestrial and aquatic habitats support a diversity of floodplain, estuarine,
acquatic, riverine and dune vegetation. White willow hardwoods line the river tributaries
while the coastal dune systems support ash-oak forests. Most significant to the waterfowl
and mankind are the extensive reedbeds, (called "Plavny" in Ukraine) and the Delta's lakes.
The dynamic coastal processes of the Kiliya estuary and Black Sea form dune and marsh
systems with unique vegetation. The Ukrainian delta and surrounding wetlands also contain
several large lakes (limans) which are not found in the Romanian portion, and which have
been naturally linked with the Danube at high water. Although large-scale land reclamation
for agricultural development has eliminated most of the Delta's "steppe" vegetation
neighboring the delta, there are still a few steppe refugia in Ukraine on lake shores and
cliffs.
1.04 The region has been settled since before Roman times, but production pressures during
the 20th century have led to much alteration of the ecology, hydrology and culture. In
particular, construction of dykes and canals has affected hydrology, while agricultural runoff
and upstream pollution have been detrimental to water quality and plant and animal life.
1.05 The changes in government policy since the revolution offer scope for conservation of
the biodiversity of the Delta through a combination of protected area management,
involvement of the local communities and sound scientific research.



- 2 -
1.06 There is an urgent need to protect the existing reserve, to identify and designate
neighboring core and buffer areas with the most ecologically valuable habitats, and to design
a system of protected area management. The plan under the proposed project would be to
expand the protected areas to 34,000 ha and to prepare a plan for a biosphere reserve
covering 67,000 ha.
B. Flora and Fauna
1.07 As in Romania, the Ukraine's Delta vegetation and associated fauna are diverse, due to
the influence of the wide range of fresh and marine water conditions that exist as a result of
deltaic development. The following patterns of vegetation may be noted:
(a)   Floodplain and estuarine vegetation: apart from the open lakes and limans the
most distinguished feature of the delta is the extensive reed area dominated by
Phragmites australis. In alluvial soil areas with an abundance of reed, the so-
called "plavny" are found. Plavnies are determined by low summer and early
autumn water levels and late winter/early spring inundations. Plavny succession
starts when shallow bays, gulfs and inlets are cut off from the main water bodies
by aquatic plants or sand ridges. T. latifolia, T. angustifolia and scirpus
lacustris/maritimus appear, followed by ph. australis. In successive phases, the
vegetation becomes firmer: bird colonies and wildlife become abundant; the wild
boar and colonies of herons, spoonbills and ibises can be found. Plaurs, or
floating islands, appear. There are dense shrub forests of salix cinerea, Solanum
dulcamarum and grey willow. Aquatic vegetation is found in sheltered waters,
but has been greatly affected by pollution of the river and its tributaries: water
lilies have almost disappeared, while Chara spec. abound.
(b)  Riverine and floodplain forests: riverine forests are dominant along the Danube
river and its branches, and have been effectively protected since the 1950's.
There are many species, including willow, poplar, pines and shrubs, and also
fruit trees. Meadow vegetation has replaced forests where felling and grazing has
been prolonged.
(c)   Young and old coastal ridges: these are the result of highly dynamic coastal
formation processes, including waves, wind and sand deposition. Sand banks are
created and gradually develop into ridges and dunes connected with the beach.
Dominant tree species include Eleagnus angustifolia, Hippophae rhamnoides,
together with herbs and grasses, and, close to river mouths, species such as
bidens tripatita. Cattle have been introduced to the coastal zone of Kubanski
island threatening the unique H. rhamnidoes zones. Within the older sand dunes
and depressions between the dunes, several vegetation types can be found,
especially J. maritimus. On higher, dry parts of the old dunes of Zhebrijanskaya
Grjada a xerothermic vegetation unique to Ukraine, including species such as
Fumana procumbens, is found, and a number of Urainian red list species.



- 3 -
(d)  Steppe areas: Largescale agriculture and overgrazing have almost eliminated
steppe vegetation, except from steep slopes. The refugia of the festuca and Stipa
steppes are best preserved in the upper reaches of Yalpug lake shore and in
Bolgrad rayon. Reptiles found in the steppe zones are among the most
endangered and rare species in the Ukraine, including Coluber jugalaris (red
list), Lacerta viridus and lacerta taurica.
(e)   Lakes and limans: the water bodies near the Danube river -- lakes Kagul,
Yalpug, Katlabugh and Kitaj, as well as the coastal lake of Sasyk, were once the
limans (lagoons) of steppe rivers flowing into the Black Sea and Danube.
1.08 While results of systematic bird counts in the Ukrainian Danube Delta have not beep.
published, there is information on distribution and number of breeding and nesting colonies
of waterfowl. It is difficult to estimate changes in total population size without long time
series data; however, there is clear evidence of species decline due primarily to loss of
habitat through conversion of wetlands into agriculture and fish farming areas. Some
waterbird species forage far away from their nesting site, therefore damage to a wetland
habitat in one part of the Delta can affect the food availability for birds nesting a great
distance away. Numbers of nests of some species can fluctuate yearly due to migration
between Ukraine and Romania; for example large numbers of spoonbills have been observed
flying from Romania to the coastal areas of Ukraine to forage. In the Ukraine, surveys h l; e
shown that the primary bird areas are the Kiliya Delta [especially the Danube Plavny Reservi-
(DP), the present nature reserve], the Stentsovko-Zhebrijanskie Plavny (SZP) and the Ozero
Kugurlug area. 153 species of birds nest in the delta. Others gather after nesting to molt.
During seasonal migrations, hundreds of thousands of birds pass through, while many more
winter in the delta.
1.09 Of the total of 350 birds species found in Ukraine, 320 live in the Delta at various
times of the year. They represent a substantial portion of the European and Paleartic
populations, with 42 species of the "Red Data Book" list of globally threatened species.
These include the Pygmy cormorant, the white pelican and the Dalmation pelican and
spoonbill. The Ukraine delta is breeding area for large populations of herons, egrets, ibis,
spoonbills and tems, as well as an important feeding area for pelicans, ruffs, godwits, swans.
comorants, Caspian terns and the red breasted goose. It is also a wintering site for between
50,000-100,000 migratory waterfowl including Whooper swants, graylag and white-fronted
geese.
1.10 The wetlands that remain have deteriorated in quality due to changes in flooding
regimes, upstream pollution and draining of floodlands which used to remove excessive
nutrients from the river water. Piscivorous and insectivorous birds are highly susceptible to
chemical pollution. Eutrophication has resulted in a decline in fish, invertebrate communities
(e.g. bivalves) and submerged macrophytes, all food sources for the waterfowl. Other
negative impacts on the bird populations in the Delta include livestock grazing if densities
eliminate rather than stimulate shrub vegetation and trampling of eggs and chicks. Hunting
parties used to frequent the Delta and local hunters form cooperatives, yet in the Kiliya Delta



- 4 -
area over 50% of the hunters operate without a license or management. There is currently
no game management plan. While there are trained ornithologists in the DP, bird counts and
bird monitoring have not taken place on a systematic basis in recent years because of fuel
and other financial constraints.
1.11 The Delta's fish communities are rich with 75 species representing 22 families, one-
third of which have traditionally been exploited by intensive commercial fishing. Fish
communities in the Delta's three main branches include migratory species of sturgeon and
shad, as well as semi-migratory species of carp and bream, using the floodplains as preferred
spawning grounds. Since these floodplains have been cut off from the Danube River by
dykes they have declined in productivity, catch size and overall species diversity and
respective commercial value. While predatory high-commercial value species as sturgeon
and shad have declined, the numbers of non-predatory species has increased. Reduction in
species richness and annual catch is due to habitat degradation caused by polder construction,
dams, loss of aquatic vegetation, eutrophication due to industrial and organic pollution from
upstream and loss of free water movement, declining flood levels and overfishing. Polders
alter normal spawning regimes and offspring have a difficult time reaching deep water sites
during the winter. Threatened species now included in the Ukrainian red book include the
Danube lamprey, Beluga sturgeon, sterlet, sea sturgeon, Black Sea trout, European mud-
minnow, zingel and schraester. Monitoring of fish species by the DP has declined over
recent years as financial constraints have increased.
1.12 Mammals have not yet been throughly studied in the region. About 47 species are
found, including about half of the Ukrainian red book species. The Delta is one of the last
refuges in Ukraine for the European mink, the wildcat, and the freshwater otter. Rodent and
insectivorous mammals are the most numerous. Muskrats, introduced about 40 years ago,
are trapped for their fur.
C. Hydrology
1.13 The Danube is one of the largest rivers in Europe with a catchment of 805,300km2 and
an average annual discharge of 6,300m3/sec. Average discharge in the highest month of
May is 8,900m3/sec, while in the lowest month of October it is 4,300m3/sec. The apex of
the delta is just upstream of the town of Tulcea (Romania), from where the river divides into
the northern Kiliya branch, while the southern branch divides just downstream form Tulcea
into the central Sulina, and the southern Sfmtu Gheorghe branches. The three branches
transport respectively 60%, 18% and 22% of the total river flow at low (normal) river
levels. During the high discharge season of April-May, the Kiliya branch percentage of the
total discharge rises to 72%. The Kiliya branch forms the border between Ukraine and
Romania. The mouth of the Kiliya branch consists of about six outlets to the Black Sea and
here the most active part of delta formation takes place, causing an eastward accretion of
about 50 meters per year. This corresponds about with the present 15km inland location of
Vilkovo (Ukraine), which 250 years ago was founded on the coast. The Danube discharge
is so large that the Black Sea at its mouth is only slightly brackish and no serious salt water
intrusion occurs in the open water of the river outlets.



- 5 -
1.14 In an attempt to supply its eroding resort beaches near Constanta with more sediment,
the Romanian government completed in 1992 a meander-cutting program in the Sfintu
Gheorghe branch, reducing the distance to the sea by 30 km and thus increasing the slope of
this branch, for the purpose of increasing water velocities and overall discharge and so
divert more sediment towards the southern branch and its outlet. This program had the side-
effect of reducing the flow of the Kiliya Branch from 69% to 61% of the total Danube flow.
1.15 With a mean annual rainfall in the eastern part of the delta of about 325mm and an
annual evapotranspiration of about 1000mm, the surrounding country side has a steppe
climate. Unlike the Romanian side, the northern Ukrainian/Moldavian side has a substantial
drainage area of 6,300km2 discharging into its relatively short 188km side of the Danube,
contributing 15% of the river's discharge. The northern tributaries draining the steppe
formed internal deltas with the Danube at their outlets named Limans. These were separated
from the river by low sand bars that were coverd by the Danube waters during spring flood
flows. Since the early 1960s many hydraulic works have been carried out on the Danube
and its tributaries. In the Ukraine 300km of dikes were built along the Danube and its
islands and the important Limans were closed with low dams for the purpose of creating
reservoirs to supply irrigation water during the low flow summer season. Thus the lakes of
Kagul, Yalpug, Katlabugh and Kitaj were created on the sites of their former Limans. In the
same way, the former salt lake Sasyk just to the north of the delta was cut off from the sea
as recently as in the mid-1980s. Canals to the Danube were constructed and pumping
stations located at the foot of the dams in order to supply the lakes with Danube water during
the summer, when the small flow of the steppe rivers is diverted for irrigation further
upstream. About 109,000ha are irrigated from the lakes. Since all return flow (drainage)
returns into the lakes, with its residu from livestock concentrations, fertilizers, pesticides and
herbicides, the quality of the lakes has been continuously deteriorating and cannot be used
for domestic supply.
1.16 In the past the limans had fish populations similar to those in the Danube. Since they
were made into lakes this has changed. The limans formed important spawning grounds for
anadromous fish and the decrease in numbers of these is in part due to the reduction of their
spawning grounds.
1.17 The type of civil works undertaken in the Ukraine since the 1960s are symptomatic of
what happened in the entire Danube basin. Everywhere tributaries were dammed, resulting
in a 35 % reduction in suspended sediment, to 44 million tons per year. The use of
agrochemicals increased, as did the construction of heavy and chemical industry, without a
corresponding growth in the treatment of municipal waste. In western Europe the latter only
started in the 1970s as a result of widespread public concern, and spectacular improvements
have been achieved, but at a substantial cost to national budgets and industry. Pollution
reduction in the Danube basin will have an important impact on biodiversity in the delta but
is outside the scope of this project.
1.18 The cost of the production inputs agrochemicals and energy (for irrigation pumping)
has increased sharply in recent years. As a result, less land is being cultivated, fewer



- 6 -
chemicals are applied, less irrigation water is being pumped, with less return flow. Thus the
concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus and summer algae blooms have decreased in the
Danube and its delta over the last three years . As a result, it may be expected that the
agricultural pollution presently affecting the Ukrainian part of the delta will be reduced as
well. In particular the rice culture with its polluting drainage adjacent to the delta is likely
to disappear for lack of continued government subsidies. Nevertheless, the Ukrainian side of
the delta is far more densely populated than the Romanian side and eventually this will
require higher investments in pollution abatement.
D. Economic and Human Activity
1.19 The Danube Plavny reserve occupies an area of 14,852 ha and is uninhabited. The
inhabitants of the state border town of Vilkovo have developed small fruit and vegetable
gardens on the islands of the Danube Delta. Overgrazing is a problem in some areas. The
population density in the delta and adjacent limans is, however, much higher than in
Romania. The population of the Kiliya rayon is 68 500, including a rural population of 32
000 which is mostly settled around the limans (lagoons) to the north of the Danube river and
is dependent on highly productive irrigated agriculture. The two principal towns are Kiliya
on the Danube (26 000 people) and Vilkovo in the delta itself (11 000 people). The total
area of the four rayons of Kiliya, Bolgrad, Izmail and Renis, which include the four largest
limans to the north of the Danube, is 470 000 ha; the intention is that 150 000 ha of this area
will eventually come under some form of protection, with preparation and implementation of
sustainable land-use plans. The proposed project would support the initial stage only of this
work.
1.20 Vilkovo has an unusual pattern of urban development and architecture of cultural
interest and with tourist potential. Houses are constructed on small artificial islands
surrounded by small canals, connected by small wooden bridges and board walks, each
family owning a boat. The canals were used for transport, washing and drinking, as silt for
soil fertilization and maintaining the islands, and for construction materials. The houses
traditionally had silt walls plastered against a reed frame, thatched reed roofs and a layer of
sea shells under the floor. Many houses are still constructed of these materials. Until 1990
there were very strict border controls, and the tourist potential of the town has not been
realized: there is no accommodation and some canals are silting up. It is important to
maintain the sr)ecial character of the town.
1.21 Shipping activities are of considerable importance: the port authorities employ about
2,000 people, mostly from Vilkovo, and the Ukrainian Shipping company uses the "lighter"
system for river transport and for loading goods onto sea carriers at the sea port of Ust
Danai. Activity has been much affected by the embargo on trade with Serbia.
1.22 Agriculture is of importance with wheat, maize, grapes, fodder and rice being the
dominant crops. The kolkhoz farming system predominates. Livestock, including about 30
000 cattle and 40 000 pigs in Kiliya rayon, are mainly stall fed; the 44 000 sheep feed on
semi-natural range land. Irrigated area in Kiliya rayon (see para 1.18) totals 50 000 ha and



14 000 ha have been poldered, but irrigation water from the limans is highly mineralized,
and the water in Kitaj lake, to the north of Vilkovo, is not suitable for irrigation. Fertilizer
runoff has further affected water quality. Wetland restoration and protected area
management programs will have to be sensitive to agricultural considerations.
1.23 Fisheries are of considerable, though declining, importance. Inland and estuarine
fisheries are organized in kolkhozes, and fishermen must deliver 60-70% of their catch to the
kolkhoz. There are now about 300 fishermen in Vilkovo, compared with 900 in the 1940s.
Vilkovo has one fish factory. Recovery of the fish stock and assessment of sustainable fishing
levels is a priority. Before the damming of the limans about 80% of the total fish catch of
about 5,000 tons in the delta area came from the limans. Following their separation from the
Danube overall catch declined sharply. Through the 1980's, following artificial stocking of
the limans, catch has averaged 1200-1800 tons in the limans and 600-1500 tons in the river.
The main species are carp, bream, and the Danube shad.
1.24 Hunting is of considerable importance. Local hunters are organized in cooperatives,
and there are about 1,500 registered hunters in Kiliya rayon. An equal number of unlicensed
hunters is thought to operate, and hunting parties from outside the region used to visit the
delta. From Stensovsko-Zhebranskie plavny (SZP) and Griada alone (7 600 ha) there are
about 30 000 kills annually, with a current estimated value of US$ 12 000. With better
management and control and higher fees, hunting could be a substantial source of revenue. In
addition, fur trapping takes place in the winter, although the numbers have declined
dramatically (para 1.26).
1.25 Up to the 1950's there existed a northern-most outlet of the Kiliya branch of the
Danube, named the the Laptysh branch, which took off between Kiliya and Vilkovo. Its part
of delta formation is called the Stensovsko-Zhebrijanskie Plavny (SZP, 9710ha) and its outlet
was in the Zhebranskie bay, just south of the beach resort town of Primorskoye. In summer
and autumn this delta was 50-70% dry, while in mid-winter and spring it was inundated by
the Danube flood waters. The Laptysh was dyked off from the Kiliya branch and canalized,
inlet sluices were constructed at the Danube in the 1970s and an irrigation pumping stations
supply water up to 50km inland with up to 22m lift. Many canals were constructed to supply
rice polders constructed at the west and north-west side of the former "sub-delta", with fish
polders towards the south east.
1.26 In the early 1980s a very large canal was constructed from near the Laptysh inlet to the
Sasyk lagoon, as a first link of an intended intra-coastal Danube-Dniester connection. It is
unlikely that the Sasyk-Dniester connection will be ever be completed. As part of the project
the Sasyk lagoon was dyked, drained and filled with Danube water, the intention being to
convert Sasyk to a freshwater irrigation reservoir. Because of salinity problems, Sasyk water
cannot, for the most part, be used for irrigation. Before the construction of the Sasyk canal,
some 18,000 muskrats were caught each year (for fur) in the Stentsovkie-Zhebrijanskie
Plavny. In 1986 this had declined to 10,000, in 1991 to a negligeable number and a special
"Ondatra" organization was appointed to control this activity. Annual trapping now produces
about 2,000 muskrats with a value of US$2,000. The hydrological situation was further



- 8 -
interfered with by constructing discharge sluices (the "ondatra sluices") in the SZP's outlet in
the eastern part near Primorskoye, because it was believed that the muskrats preferred a
continuously high water table. Fish are caught by the fishermen of the fishery kolkhoz of
Primorskoye on a part-time basis because of low catches due to pollution. Annual catches
are 20-25 tons (value: US$0.20/kg). There is no coordination between the trappers, the
fishermen and the hunters.
1.27 As a result of the construction activity, the SZP
-    was reduced in size to 9,700 ha;
-    cut in two by the Danube Sasyk canal;
-    the western part deprived of its natural outlet because of the high canal banks,
while the capacity of the drainage siphons crossing the canal is very inadequate;
-    the western part exposed to the polluted agricultural runoff from the rice polders;
-    the east side's drainage towards the Black Sea impaired because of keeping the
Ondatra outlet sluice gates closed in the Vilkovo-Primorskoye road. Sometimes
at summer low river flow, the discharge in the outlet drain is reversed and flows
from the Black Sea towards the Laptysh canal, at the time of maximum drainage
from the rice fields;
-    suffers from a stagnant, anaerobic, eutrophic, polluted condition, such that the
villagers and tourists of Primorskoye complain during the summer months about
the stench of hydrogen sulfide. In addition, fishermen, hunters and the entire
biosphere supporting those activities suffer from these ill-conceived hydro-
technical projects. Only the trappers of muskrats think that maintaining the
water level in the SZP constant at a high level is necessary for creating a
muskrat habitat. However, the number of animals caught has decreased by 90%
between 1980 and 1992.
-    The SZP is currently unprotected, although it is one of the most important
nesting places for birds in the delta region. Restoration of a free flow of water
into and out of the SZP, together with planning and protection, will be essential
to conserve its ecosystems.
1.28 Ill-conceived advice and policies from departments of the former Ministry of Fisheries
and the Ministry of Amelioration and Water Management led to dredging and canal
construction in the Dunavskie Plavny itself and continued until 1991. No opinion or advice
from the local fishermen was sought by the central authority. The fishermen - who claim
traditional rights to all open waters -- have all noticed a sharp decline in catches since the
canals were built; the loss of the reproduction function of the backwaters near the coast is
likely to be due to the direct influence of the polluted and nutrient-rich Danube waters.



- 9 -
E. Project Justification and Regional Initiatives
1.29 Activities in Romania were responsible for initiating international interest in the
Danube Delta. Following the 1989 revolution, a decree was issued halting further
polderisation in the Romanian part of the Delta. In 1990 the Romanian government invited
IUCN to help coordinate plans for nature conservation in the country, with an emphasis on
the Danube Delta. The Romanian portion of the delta was declared a Biosphere Reserve in
1990, and the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve Authority was established under the Ministry
of Environment. The IUCN a series of missions which, summarizing work by Romanian
scientists, resulted in the publication of an Environmental Status Report in 1992. In May
1991 the Danube Delta was declared a RAMSAR Wetland of international significance, and
in September 1991 an International Seminar was held in Tulcea, Romania, which resulted in
preparation of a series of management objectives for the delta. These included proposals for
establishment of legal, administrative and planning, conservation, socio-economic, research
and monitoring and public awareness and education objectives for the delta. The Government
of Romania/IUCN "Management Objectives and Framework" document provided a basis for
actions to be undertaken to prepare and implement a management plan for the delta. The
document also provided the basis for securing financial assistance from the international
community, and it was from this that the GEF project proposal was drawn up in January
1992.
1.30 The original GEF project document envisaged providing assistance only to the
Romanian portion of the delta. However, at the technical review the importance of
considering the entire delta ecosystems, including the Ukrainian portion, was emphasized,
and US$ 1.5 millions of the US$ 6 millions allocated to the project were earmarked for
Ukraine. A project identification mission visited Ukraine in May 1992, and arrangements
were made for initiating preparation activities. In the meantime, Romania is also receiving
assistance from the EBRD and may shortly receive a loan; the assistance emphasizes
institutional strengthening of the Biosphere Reserve Authority and development of a
biosphere reserve management plan together with support for village infrastructure and
ecotourism. The Ukrainian portion of the delta has continued to receive little attention from
the international community, with the exception of World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Germany,
which has provided some modest equipment, training in digital mapping and land
classification to DP staff. The relative neglect by the international community of the
Ukrainian portion of the delta highlights the importance of the GEF project to Ukraine.
1.31 The GEF Danube Delta project is closely linked with two other GEF and other donor-
funded regional projects, one for the Danube River basin, and one for the Black Sea. The
Danube River basin project has attracted funding of US$ 56.7 millions and focuses on
preparation of an action plan, improved river basin management, a regional environmental
survey, inventory of biological resources, strengthening monitoring, data management and
applied research. The Black Sea program, for US$ 9.3 millions, has as its objectives reversal
of environrmental degradation of the Black Sea, and rational natural resource management,
development of a pilot pollutant monitoring program, database, policy and legislative
enhancement, preparation of investment proposals and donor mobilization. There is a



- 10 -
subcomponent to develop a biodversity strategy for the coastal mountains, dunes, wetlands
and nearshore intertidal areas of the Black Sea. The International Waterfowl and Wetlands
Research Bureau (IWRB) and Ukrainian Ministry for Environmental Protection (MEP)
sponsored a conference on biodiversity of wetlands for the Black Sea in Odessa in October
1993. This will result in a joint IWRB-World Bank document that outlines initial actions for
development of a broad Black Sea Biodiversity Strategy. The Danube Delta project will be a
pilot for this broader regional initiative.
1.32 GEF fuiancing for the project is thus critical not only to help develop sustainable
management of the Ukrainian part of the delta and protect its biodiversity, but also as part of
a much larger regional program to improve the management of the Danube Basin, Delta and
Black Sea.
II. INSTITUTIONAL SETTING
A. System of Reserved Area Management and Key Central Agencies
2.01 The system of reserved area management in Ukraine is clearly described the recent
Ukraine Environment Strategy Report (Suggested Priorities for Environmental Protection and
Natural Resource Management-September 20, 1993-World Bank). Ukraine includes 15
nature reserves (zapovednik) of which the Danube Plavny Reserve (DP) is one, totalling over
200,000 ha, 4 national parks totalling 176,000 ha, and 3 biosphere reserves, as well as
locally protected landscapes. Only 2.1% of the land area is under some form of protection.
Government policy is to increase this proportion to 3%. The Bank report emphasizes that the
focus in the short term should be on improving conditions in existing protected areas.
2.02 The zapovedniki's main objectives are to preserve natural sites for scientific research
and monitoring, to develop recommendations for nature conservation, and to assist in the
training of ecological specialists -- recreation is not specifically indicated, and travel by
unauthorized people is prohibited. Management of the reserves falls under various agencies,
and management tends to reflect their objectives, rather than those of nature conservation.
The DP is under the control of the Odessa branch of the Institute of Biology of the Southern
Seas, which is itself under the Academy of Sciences. The reserves are not identifiably part
of one system. Landuse planning outside the reserves has rarely been attempted. The Strategy
Report emphasizes that incorporation of the surrounding populations into the management of
the reserves and neighboring areas is essential to build community support for the reserves
and thus ensure their protection. Individual managing agencies are responsible for financing
the protected area, though some reserves have a supplemental source of income, eg from
timber production. The DP is the most underfunded of all the reserves relative to its size.
Currently the reserves, including DP, are facing critical fiancial problems including a
reduction in allocations.
2.03 The Ministry for Environmental Protection (MEP) was created in May 1991. It is
authorized to supervise nature conservation activities and is the governmental agency
responsible for the organization of protected areas and management of the countries natural



- 11 -
heritage. MEP has its departments including regional and district inspection agencies in
every region of Ukraine and the Republic of Crimea and has a staff of 2,600. The MEP is
still in a process of growth and it is underfunded. Nevertheless, it is vigorously acting to
implement governmental policies concerning the protection of biodiversity, extending
protected areas, preparing and giving top priority to this GEF project. A project
coordination unit has been set up in the MEP. The sector report recommends a greater role
for MEP in coordinating and planning protected area management, and recommends also
study of the possibility of earmarking of certain earnings to protected areas to increase their
revenue sources.
2.04 The DP is supervised by the DP Reserve Authority (DPA). The DP Reserve now is
under the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and is directly controlled by the Odessa branch of
the Institutes of Biology of Southern Seas. It provides the DP with about US$3,000 per year
for salaries and operative expenses, and nominates staff for the reserve. Its role in the
management and technical activities of the DP Reserve is insufficient. The Academy of
Sciences of Ukraine together with MEP coordinate and accomplish scientific and
methodological supervision of the research carried out in nature reserves. The Academy will
promote institutes under its control to take an active part in the implementation of the
project.
2.05 The Ukrainian Scientific Centre for the Ecology of the Sea is the main institution of the
MEP responsible for marine ecological research. The centre has been established to
investigate marine ecosystems under growing anthropogenic pressure and to work out the
scientific grounds for the reclamation and sustainable management of coastal and wetland
areas in the region of the Black and Azov seas. Over the last years it has undertaken
research in river estuaries and MEP has nominated it as the coordinating research centre for
monitoring Ukrainian wetlands with respect to RAMSAR conventions.
B. Danube Plavny Reserve Authority
2.06 The DPA was created in 1981. It currently has a staff of only 18, including a director
and vice director, two ornithologists, one botanist, one herpetology/mammalia expert, an
ichthyologist under contract, two scientific assistants, four wardens, one mechanic, one
secretary, one administrative assistant and support staff. Its responsibilities are:
(a)  to protect the territory within the boundaries of the reserve;
(b)  to study natural complexes in the reserve, and take measures for their protection
and rehabilitation;
(c) extension concerning nature protection and management;
(d)  to undertake scientific research;
(e)  to monitor changes in the area; and



- 12 -
(f)  to undertake research expeditions in the area.
2.07 Financial constraints, weak management and isolation have seriously reduced the
effectiveness of the DPA staff work. Staff do not have clear work programs and do not work
in a coordinated way. Activities need to be formulated according to nature conservation
problems, and staff need to work together in multidisciplinary teams. Currently the DPA
does not have its own judicial status or Bank account. A new director with management as
well as research experience has recently been appointed.
2.08 Within DPA there is little legal expertise, and wardens' reports of violations of reserve
regulations are rarely followed up. Some DPA staff have attempted to seek legal solutions
to nature protection problems in the region, and have worked on classification of
environmentally sensitive areas into core (strictly protected) areas, buffer areas (known as
game reserves in Ukrainian environmental law) and areas for controlled economic use
(known as anthropogenic Zones). This work needs further development and close
collaboration with the local population, but it forms the basis for land-use planning and
eventually creation of a biosphere reserve.
2.09 DP was created as a nature reserve without consultation of the local population: the
regulations forbid all forms of vegetation cutting, gathering of fruits, cattle grazing, hunting,
fishing, camping or other leisure activities, or traditional activities. Enforcement problems
appeared from the outset and have become more severe in recent years -- cattle are grazed,
there is fishing, hunting and trapping. There is an urgent need for increased public
awareness and environmental education, and need for a management plan which will balance
the various claims on the resources of the reserve.
2.10 In order to manage the protected areas of the delta effectively, DPA will need
considerable strengthening; it will also need much more support from the related scientific
bodies, in particular the Institute for the Biology of the Southern Seas, the Ukrainian
Scientific Centre for the Ecology of the Sea, the Zoological Institute, the Institute of Botany,
the Institute of Hydrobiology and the Ukrainian Land Design Institute, as well as the MEP
and the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine.
C. Other Organizations
2.11 Locally elected officials, in particular the mayors of Vilkovo and Kiliya, have played
an active part in project preparation to date, as have the fisheries and agricultural kolkhozes,
the hunting cooperatives and the port authority. There is one local NGO, the "Ecological
Club of Vilkovo", and two regional NGOs, the Nature Protection and Regeneration fund,
which has been active in the protection of the Dniester delta, and the Regional Fund to Save
Wild Nature in Odessa, which is backed by powerful political and financial authorities. The
schools have potentially a very important role to play in the popularization of nature
protection.



- 13 -
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Project Summary
3.01 The project has the objective of introducing participator) protected area management w
the Danube Delta, in order to protect the delta ecosystems and restore biodiversity, within
the broader context of the regional programs described above. Detailed project costs are
indicated in Annex 1 of this report. Project components may be summarized as follu,ws:
(i)  Institutional strengthening: the project would provide for Llie expansion and
restructuring of DP authority to develop and implement effective maniagement
plans for protected areas in and around the delta, through training and technical
assistance, provision of infrastructure including an office and visitolS centre,
construction of a house for the director and for senior DPA staff, and office,
transport and scientific equipment and its maintenance; (US$750,000);
(ii)  Strengthening the Warden's section, through staff increases, training in patrolliw.,
and protected area management, provision of equipment, and field office and
residential accommodation; (US$167,000);
(iii)  Strengthening ecosystem monitoring, including flora. fauna and hydlological
monitoring and creation of database and simple GIS, to assist with the
development of management plans; (US$110,000);
(iv)  Pilot wetland restoration, including restoration of hydrological circulation to tllc
Stensovsko-Zhebrijanskie Plavny (SZP), pilot protection from Danube water of
one lake ("kut") in the DP reserve and monitoring of the impact. restoration ol
the Vilkovo town canals, studies for restoration of Yerrnakov island pai o;aily
being used by the Pogranichnik Sovkhoz for cattle and horse breeding, and
studies of marketing alternatives for ecologically-fiiendly cultivated produce ftrm
the Lenin fisheries kolkhoz; (US$300,000);
(v)  Public awareness and community involvement in protected area management h
by DP staff and non-governmental organizations cNGOs); (US$131 JOO0);
(vi)  Developing and implementing a programme for protected atea expansliil and
creation of a biosphere reserve DP to become Biosphere Reserve Authority,
through land use studies and using information provided trom mnovn1 )ring, an(!
community participation; (US$60,000);
(vii) Coordination with GEF activities in Romania and the GEF Black Sea
Environmental Management Program; (US$11,000) and
(viii) Technical expertise to prepare an endowment fiind to finance the recwL rent coWst
of expanded protected areas in a second phase. (US$12.000).



- 14 -
B. Detailed Project Description
COMPONENT 1: Danube Plavny Authority Strengthening (US$750,000)
3.02 This component focuses on improving DPAs capability to implement the project and
manage a biosphere reserve in the delta over the next four years. It focuses on:
(i) increased staffing; (ii) resident advisor; (iii) general training; (iv) DPA general
infrastructure (buildings); and (v) equipment needs for DPA. More specific equipment and
training is outlined in respective components. Institutional strengthening needs for the DPA
ecological wardens is treated in a separate component.
(i) Expansion and Reorganization (Government Contribution)
3.03  It is important that the DPA be expanded in scope and scale into integrated functional
groups that can adequately manage the variety of ecosystems and economic pressures that
exist in the Delta as well as work with the other Ukrainian institutes and their colleagues in
the Romania Biosphere Reserve. The DPA is at present only 18 in staff; the I director has
limited management experience, the 4 wardens are not trained in environmental patrolling
and management, the 4 scientists are well-trained only in their specific discipline, not in
holistic ecological practices. There is a great need to make the staff stronger in integrated
management, enforcement capacity, ecological monitoring and public awareness. Given this
need, the following organization structure for 50 total staff (tentative figure) is proposed for
the DPA, identifying roles, staff numbers and the components which they will be primarily
responsible for in implementing this project. At Negotiations, a staffing plan would be
agreed to, and GOU also agreed to make the necessary budget allocation for it [para
5.01(a)].



- 15 -
Table 1: Danube Plavny Authority Staff/Plan Expansion
Phased Staff (No.)
Unit             93   94   95   96   97          Lead Components
Administrative                  2    2    2    2       2    DPA Strengthening
(DPA Dir., Admin. Dir.)
Wardens (park management,       4    10   20   20    20   Warden
patrol, guides)                                            I Strengthening
Biosphere Reserve Development   0    2    3    3       3   Biosphere Dev.
Group (park planner, socio-
economic specialist)
Wetland Monitoring Research     4    7    10   10    10   Ecosys. Monitor and
Group (scientific staff and GIS                             Rehabilitation
specialist)                                         I
Public Awareness (education     0    3    5    5       5    Public Awareness
specialist, ecotourism guides)
Support Staff (financial,       8    10   10   10    10   DPA Strengthening
secretarial, mechanics)                       I    I_I
TOTAL                           18   34   50   50    50
Note: Figures are tentative.
(ii) Support to Project Management (US$90,000)
3.04      A Resident Advisor will provide overall technical assistance with project
implementation and biosphere development for 2mm/yr during project year 1 and 1mm/yr
during project years 2 and 3. A procurement advisor would be recruited for one month in
the first year to assist with the preparation of tender documents for the procurement of
goods. A bookkeeper would be recruited on contract to help manage project accounts. A
Scientific Advisory Committee would meet periodically in Vilkovo to assist with project
implementation. The MEP would also provide administrative and technical support.
Overall DPA Training (Total Cost: US$70,000)
3.05      Training to enhance the capacity of the existing and new staff, with an emphasis
on career development would be structured as outlined below. There needs to be a strong
emphasis on basic protection functions and infrastructure building during the first two years.



- 16 -
(a)   On-site English Training Lab:
6 week intensive courses each year and lab facilities for ongoing work for DP
professional staff in Vilkovo, together with on-site training in computer use by
Ukrainian experts.
(b)  Wetland Study Tour:
One three-week foreign study tour for 5 lead staff during the first year of the
project to gain broader perspectives of wetland reserve management. This will
be coordinated with the GEF Romanian study tours. The study tour host will
spend one week in the Delta before the Ukrainians visit to become more familiar
with the reserve needs.
(c)   On-site wetland management course:
A two week on-site course on wetland management, including waterfowl
management, legislative aspects and wetland protection, for DPA professional
staff during the first and third years of the project. This will be done in
conjunction with the GEF Romania project, and will be conducted by an
organization familiar with the Danube Delta management needs, e.g. IWRB.
(d)  The World Wildlife Fund (Germany) will provide ongoing technical assistance to
the DPA in the following areas: ecosystem monitoring (GIS, vegetation
mapping), ecological aspects of biosphere reserve land-use planning, wetland
restoration and public awareness, through the project. The times and costs are
detailed in the respective components. WWF will also be providing some
technical assistance to the GEF Romania project and therefore help to facilitate
integrated ecosystem approaches to the Danube Delta.
(iv) Infrastructure (US$388,000)
3.06 DP Headquarters: presently the DP only has one small office in the Vilkovo town
center, away from the water, without storage facilities for field equipment. As indicated
above, for the DP to manage the existing and proposed expanded protected areas (biosphere
reserve) they will need additional staffing, infrastructure and equipment. The key facility
will be headquarters office which will have rooms designated to service as offices,
conference rooms, visitor center (for public awareness activities as designated in that
component), research facilities (for scientific monitoring staff and detailed in the Monitoring
component) and lodging facilities for ecotourism programs. The project would also fund
construction and furnishing of 6 small visitors lodges adjacent to the DP-Office. These
lodges will be used by scientists, bird watchers, photographers, filmers, etc. who wish to
stay for a longer period in the Delta. A building has already been designed for this purpose
and two sites identified. A house for the director would also be financed, together with
renovation of apartments for senior DP staff. During the construction period of the new
building, DPA would rent a building currently available in Vilkovo which could temporarily
accommodate some staff increase. GOU agreed at Negotiations that the People's Councils
had provided land for the new building; a site has already been identified and a preliminary



- 17 -
design prepared [para 5.01(d)]. GOU also identified buildings in Vilkovo which could
provide satisfactory temporary accommodation while the building is under construction.
3.07 Funds are allocated to build notice boards, which will accommodate a wide range of
exhibits on public awareness activities, ecological information protected area zoning and
safety. Sign posts to demarcate the protected area boundaries are also supported.
(v) Equipment (US$156,000)
3.08 Apart from furniture, the project would provide office equipment, including 4 PCs, two
cars, 30 motorcycles and bicycles, audiovisual equipment and kitchen and canteen equipment
for the headquarters office, gauge tools and radio equipment for communication between the
DP headquarters and wardens' stations (Total cost US$141,300).
(vi) Recurrent costs for office supplies, fuel, equipment, vehicle and building operation and
maintenance would also be financed under the project. These would increase to US$47,000
p.a. by year 4 of the project.
COMPONENT 2: Warden Strengthening (US$167,000)
3.09 DPA's protection efforts in the present DP reserve, and enforcement of laws and
regulations are in urgent need of improvement. Although most wardens are very well
acquainted with the area, no special training or education programme has been provided to
prepare them for their tasks. The lack of any proper legislative and administrative follow up
on reported cases of law violation has seriously eroded the motivation of wardens. The
wardens' duty performance falls short due to a lack of adequate staff transport and
communication facilities. Four small boats are at present the only transport facility available
to the wardens.
3.10 Without proper protection of the existing DP core area and planned S-ZP core area,
biodiversity and ecological processes of the delta will decline with present hunting,
agriculture and fishery pressures. Guards require training in regulations, law enforcement,
patrolling, public relations and park management. There will need to be a Chief Warden
who will oversee the day to day management of the wardens and serve as the primary
warden unit development and training officer. The wardens will be equipped with patrolling
equipment in addition to the office support based provided.
3.11 The staff would initially increase to 10 wardens and up to 20 in time. Their role would
be primarily patrol and law enforcement, but they would need to have strong public relations
skills as well as having basic wetland knowledge of the flora, fauna and hydrological process
to assist the scientific staff in basic monitoring activities. They will also work closely with
the other staff regarding realistic zoning and protected areas expansion strategies.



- 18 -
3.12 The wardens will have particular locations/districts of responsibility on a permanent or
rotating basis as the protected area expansion aspects of the project develop. Wardens'
stations/offices will be sited and constructed in critical locations for effective protection.
These are described in more detail later in this component.
3.13 The wardens areas of primary responsibility will be:
-    Assist the DPA with the design and implementation of realistic enforcement
measures for wildlife management, grazing, agricultures, hydrological and
recreational activities.
-    Monitor and enforce the measures described above.
-    Assist the DPA biosphere planning and public awareness team with the design,
development and establishment of management plans, formal park boundaries,
including working with local citizens; siting and placement of boundary markers
and park inexpensive structures.
-    Work with the town of Vilkovo in providing emergency assistance for safety of
the local community members.
-    Assist the DP scientific team with routine monitoring of flora and fauna,
especially bird census, mammals and fish management, and the preparation and
enforcement of game management plans in the core areas and game reserves.
3.14 In order for the Wardens to be an effective unit and work with the rest of the DPA
staff and local community, the following training program is proposed. This will be
supported through the provision of equipment and warden stations described in subsequent
sections.
(i) Training (US$14,000)
(a)  Foreign Study Tour: One, two-week foreign study tour of other wetland
reserves with an emphasis on protection techniques by the Chief Warden will be
done in conjunction with the Romanian foreign Study Tours, if possible.
(b)  Protection Course: Ongoing training for all of the DPA Wardens present and
newly recruited staff organized by MEP and carried out by other Ukrainian
natural resource management entities, e.g. the University of Zaporoje and/or
other Ukrainian forest and game management technical colleges. The cource will
focus on law enforcement, regulations and game management. This will be for a
two-weeks time period each year, with the senior wardens taking an increasing
role as trainers of a new recruits. A program would be worked out and agreed
in Kiev for training wardens of protected areas.



- 19 -
(c)  Romania Foundation Course: The senior wardens (up to 10) will go to Romania
in years 1 and 3 to participate in the Romanian wardens foundation course for 2
weeks in the capacity of "trainers" to bring information back to Ukraine.
(d)  Wildlife Management Course: On-the-job training of flora/fauna, basic
ecological process and monitoring and inventory techniques so that the wardens
can help carry out day-to-day wildlife monitoring. This will be taught by the DP
scientific staff for 3 weeks each year. Funds are provided for materials.
(e)  Public Awareness Course: One-the-job training for public awareness activities
and skills to help the DP public awareness/education staff carry out work with
local communities, as well as handle day-to-day contact with visitors and local
people. Three weeks per year, to be conducted by the DP public awareness
staff. Funds are provided for materials.
(f)   Language training will be ongoing utilizing the lab established in the DPA
component 1.
3.15 The above courses will together comprise a Ukraine Warden Foundation course that
will have a yearly examined renewable certification with different sections on Wildlife
Management Protection and Public Awareness.
(ii) Infrastructure (US$72,000)
3.16 Four warden stations would be relocated to more appropriate sites and provided with
sanitary facilities, kitchens and sleeping accommodation for fee-paying researchers and
ecotourism visitors (US$15,000 each, total US$60,000). New locations would be sited close
to river branches, with easy access to important areas, and would permit efficient patrplling.
Sites have been selected, at north-east Kubam, west Gneushev, north-east Ankudinov and at
the village of Bolshoe.
3.17 The DPA and the protected areas will serve a wide-range of public education and
monitoring functions. Exhibit boards and signs for nature interpretation purposes are
mentioned in the DPA strengthening component. The following will be additional
infrastructure, manned by the wardens, but used for a variety of purposes:
(a)  Construction of four observation towers adjacent to the central part of the Kilia
Reserve, and in the new protected zones. These towers will be used for patrol
and warden activities and be able to accommodate information 'notice boards'
and simple exhibits.
(b)  Construction of four bird blinds, adjacent to the cormorant and gull colonies
which can be reached by boat without causing disturbances to the bird colony
(safe landing and entering).



- 20 -
(iii) Equipment (US$61,000)
3.18 The DPA presently has six wooden and nine aluminum small boats, but their motors
are old and many beyond repair. The warden department would be supplied with four new
outboard motors, motorcycles and bicycles and one 4WD vehicle, together with furniture for
the warden stations which would be equipped with solar panels for lighting, new uniforms
and night rescue equipment.
COMPONENT 3: Monitoring and Database Management (US$110,000)
3.19 Monitoring activities provide information on the causes of environmental degradation
and the resulting changes in biological community composition and distribution. Such
information is necessary for appropriate management of the existing and planned Delta
Biosphere areas with regard to zoning and activity regulation.
3.20 The monitoring framework for flora and fauna is comprised of three key activities
including: (1) Ecosystem Surveys and Species Inventories, (2) Data Management, and
(3) Resource-Use Management Plans. These three activities would result in the establishment
of baseline conditions and monitoring programs which can be used for management
recommendations targeted at key indicator species, biologically rich areas and high-risk
habitats (hotspots) and control areas and wetland restoration treatments. This can provide
indications of effectiveness of protection and guidelines for zoning strategies. While the
flora/fauna monitoring component would primarily be carried out by the DPA Wetland
Research Group with support by the Wardens Department, it will receive assistance from
MEP, Academy of Science, WWF and local NGO's.
(1) Ecosystem Surveys and Species Inventories
3.21 Little research or management-based monitoring has been done at the whole
ecosystem/delta-landscape level, looking at broad-scale ecological processes. Seasonal and
annual general surveys can identify long-term baseline and monitoring status of major
ecosystems and habitats (river tributaries, canals, lakes, reedbed swamps, forests, dunes)
with regard to distribution, human-use and climate impacts and threats, protection needs,
regional planning and economic opportunities. This information provides guidance to
management on zoning strategies and regulatory actions.
3.22 Population and species inventories provide in formation on key indicator, endemic,
exotic and endangered species regarding life history trends, harvesting rates, population
threshold, causes for community change and population decline. These focus on forest
vegetation, macrophyte aquatic plants, birds, fish, reptiles and mammals. Short term
monitoring indices would focus on the level of removal of species, especially threatened ones
through demographic analysis, harvest models, inventories, capture-recapture, transect
counts, hunter yields, market-consumption surveys, habitat use studies. Long-term studies



- 21 -
would focus on population size, abundance of keystone species, age/sex ratios of keystone,
recruitment rate to indicate sustainability and threshold levels.
3.23 Ecosystem surveys and inventories would be done through the assessment of remote
sensing, aerial photographs, GIS, weather records, transect surveys, land-use maps, previous
habitat inventories, and community interviews. These would be compiled into map and
retrievable formats as indicated in the Data Management activity. This activity will be
highly coordinated with the species, population studies as well as the hydrological monitoring
described elsewhere in this report.
(a) Bird, Fish, Mammal and and Reptile Monitoring
3.24 The birds of the Danube Delta are perhaps the most "high profile" species of the delta
with regard to conservation, yet as noted earlier migrating and breeding populations are
declining due to loss of habitat and deterioration of water quality. Birds also are a good way
to focus wetland management that lends itself to habitat management for other flora and
fauna. In the past, bird counts were conducted regularly by a wide variety of institutions,
based on aerial and ground surveys, but at present due to equipment, fuel and staff
limitations these are irregular, and the existing data and present activities are uncoordinated.
3.25 This activity would support the DPA Wetland Research Group to conduct and
coordinate bird monitoring in the reserves through the following activities:
-    Establishment of a network of bird monitoring activities to establish both with an
emphasis on mid-winter warder and waterfowl inventories in through local,
national and international channels;
-    Technical assistance for (a) from IWRB and the Melitopol Ornithological station
in the design of baseline and ongoing monitoring-based inventory protocols as
needed for wetland manaement.
-    Annual reports on survey counts and findings which would go to all participants;
-    Work with the Public Awareness staff to produce newsletters on bird monitoring
development; and
Sample Bird Monitoring Program:
3.26 As with each of the monitoring activities, the exact details of the protocols of sampling,
measuring, counting, etc. will be developed as the baseline data is established and refined
with the project, the following is a sample approach:
-    Species-based monitoring: Simple counts and population assessment is needed
for priority 8-15 species (e.g. Red Breasted Goose, White pelican, Pygmy
cormorant and Dalmatian pelican, spoonbills white tailed eagle and white stork),



- 22 -
including regular monitoring of key sites every 2 weeks and intensive mid-winter
counts for the wintering waterfowl and crane migrators. Information on dates
and bird numbers, nests, eggs laid/nest, fledged young leaving the nest is needed
for population trends.
Habitat-based monitoring: A variety of habitats (lakes, reed beds, marshes,
meadows, grasslands, woodlands, coastal dunes/spits) to be selected with each
approximately 500ha in size, to ideally represent 10-15% of the total area of that
habitat and be selected on a stratified random sampling basis. Each site needs to
be visited 5 times per year, 2 winter, 3 spring/summer. The number and activity
of all birds present should be recorded.
Continuous effort trapping sites: Two decoy observation places are needed for
trapping with mist-netting to be placed where concentrations of migratory birds
occur. Trapped birds should be ringed and information on morphology
collected, and released.
Fish:
3.27 Fishing has been a way of life for people of Vilkovo. There are active fishery
Kolkozes largely for the breeding of carp. From a management perspective solutions must
be sought to involve the fishermen and ensure that they understand the need for protecting
breeding and spawning grounds of fish to ensure a sustainable fishery. This will require
much cooperation in the monitoring and management of delta waters. There has been little
regular monitoring of non-commerical fish species. This activity focuses on the following to
enhance the present work by DPA in cooperation with appropriate scientific institutes, and
encourage support from the other institutes and local communities:
-    Development of baseline fisheries information for all species, not just
commercially valuable ones, with an emphasis on endangered ones and ones
which are bioindicators.
-    Development of an ongoing monitoring program to look at time series change,
population trends, indications of water quality and health, potential economic
resources and overall biodiversity recovery.
-    Development of a program to work with the fishermen in the monitoring efforts
and incentives for their assistance.
Mammals and Reptiles:
3.28 Little is known about the native mammal populations other than the introduced muskrat
which is trapped for fur and there are no ongoing studies. The DPA has an excellent
herpetologist who is very familier with the Delta's reptiles. Traditionally, the delta has been
a key place for hunting parties due to its rich resources. Yet, both baseline and monitoring



- 23 -
work is needed with a protection focus on the mink which lives on the plaurs, wild cats and
otters in the waters. In contrast, populations of the wild boar need to be managed, possible
through organized hunting. The mink and the otter have a high-profile conservation value
that could be encouraged by NGO groups in public awareness activities. As with birds and
fish sampling programmes need to be established to examine the role of mammals and
reptiles in the delta and ensure their contribution to biodiversity.
(b) Vegetation Mapping
3.29 During the last five years, no vegetation mapping or vegetation research has taken
place in the Danube Region other than those carried out by the DPA botanist. Due to
logistic and transport constraints, this research was done only in the vicinity of Vilkovo and
parts of the Dunaiskie Plavny Reserve. There is a lack of up to date information on the
present state of the vegetation in the region. Considering the future expansion of DPA's
tasks, more sophisticated and less time consuming vegetation mapping and monitoring
methods need to be introduced. Satellite image interpretation, in combination with GIS, is
currently being established in the Romanian Danube Delta Institute, with support of WWF
and Rijkwaterstaadt. For efficiency and coordination reasons, DPA should adopt a similar
system, and acquire knowledge and experience in using it.
3.30 Vegetation monitoring will provide basic data on habitat changes and on the dynamics
of habitats and ecosystems. Impacts of interventions and the effectiveness of rehabilitation
measures are special objectives of this monitoring programme. Coordination should be
established between DPA and other scientists and vegetation monitoring activities, i.e. with
the hydro-biological monitoring and scientific research programme. The vegetation
monitoring programme should become the major framework for other scientific research,
such as fisheries, herpetology, ornithology and other research.
EquiPment and Training for Flora/Fauna Monitoring:
3.31 The project will fund the following equipment for the DPA Wetland Research Team to
carry out flora and fauna surveys and inventories: 1 jeep, 2 boat engines, traps, nets,
binoculars, video and camera equipment, lights, 1 global positioning system, herbarium
supplies, camping gear and fuel for boats. While specific equipment is provided for the
scientific team, they will work in conjunction with the rest of the DPA staff, other Ukrainian
Institutes and their Romanian Colleagues.
3.32 As described earlier, the project will also fund a two week on-site course on bird
monitoring and wetland management, to be taught by one specialist (e.g. from IWRB or Bird
Life) and one local specialist (e.g. Meltipole) to standardize bird monitoring techniques with
those in the region and to integrate these with other flora/fauna monitoring protocols and
habitat management needs.
3.33 A DP ornithologist will also be funded to attend the Black Sea workshop on bird
monitoring. This is costed in the Regional Initiative Component.



- 24 -
(2) Data Management and GIS
3.34 This activity will eventually integrate all total fauna information, but the pilot emphasis
will be on GIS for vegetation mapping, and then applied to birds, etc.
(a)  Relevant information from publications, maps, aerial surveys, remote sensing,
etc. in flora and fauna would be compiled into a DPA database, targeted for
resource management applications, but linked with a database to clarify existing
state of knowledge and gaps;
(b)  Preparation of an accurate base map from which other data can be referenced
including time series, point source and geographical coordinates. This could best
be done with SPOT satellite imagery, aerial photographs and ground truthing
with GPS locators. This would become a prototype and standardization for
ecological zones and land-use units. Recent aerial photography is also needed;
(c)  Preparation of the information for inclusion into a simple GIS format in the DPA
to be used for management, planning and public awareness needs. The GIS
system would need to be capable of selecting spatial ecosystem areas and specific
species information, as well as have prediction and modeling capacity;
(d)  Information exchange and collaborative monitoring activities (e.g. bird counts)
for species and/or ecosystems that are common to both the Ukraine and
Romanian sides of the delta;
3.35 Data Management will be a collation and analysis of existing data (reports, maps,
interviews) to clarify present activities, identify gaps, recommend data collection needs and
arrangements (institutional and technical). A simple GIS systems would be provided to the
DPA (DPA facilities are not adequate for more sophisticated GIS at present). GIS training
visits (on-the-job training) should make use of satellite images and should be attuned to
specific requirements for vegetation mapping and monitoring. The initial emphasis will be
on vegetation mapping, but this will be expanded to other resources to produce resource-use
management plans.
3.36 The project will fund the following equipment and data management capacity: computer
system, GIS software, aerial photography and satellite images, digitizer and CD Rom
capacity.
3.37 The project will also fund a GIS and vegetation mapping specialist through WWF-
Germany to visit the delta two times per year to assist with setting up the GIS system, data
design and monitoring protocols, map and management plan production.



- 25 -
(3) Management Plans
3.38 Monitoring requires ongoing input and assessment of the suitability of existing
reserves, consider reclassification and zoning options and refine management plans, in light
of ecosystem and population sustainability needs, economic pressures, infrastructure
development and regional influences. The data from the surveys and inventories will be
synthesized to prepare management plans for wildlife (especially waterfowl), grazing and
fishereis. These will feed into the overall Biosphere Reserve Establishment Component to
ensure appropriate and realistic management criteria, legislation, zoning, as well as serve to
provide ongoing direction for the flora and fauna monitoring activities. These management
plans will also help management of other wetland reserves throughout Ukraine and the Black
Sea.
3.39 A number of management plans need to be developed as part of the monitoring
activities and further integrated into the Biosphere Reserve Establishment Process. These
need to focus specifically on wildlife management with regard to hunting, grazing, fishing
and farming. Data produced from the survey and inventories will be digitized into the GIS
form and result in a series of maps and reports. These can be used as valuable tools to
discuss ecological needs, resources-use priorities, zoning and permitting strategies, which
together will comprise a wildlife management plan or plans for wildlife, fisheries and
agriculture. The project funds basic production (printing, publishing) costs, while the
equipment to produce the plans is provided in the previous two sections.
(4) Hydrochemical Monitoring
3.40  Proposed hydrotechnical interventions under the project will focus to improve or
restore isolated problem areas. For the largest of these, the Stensovsko-Zhebrijanskie
Plavny (SP), the project will provide a stock of laboratory equipment that will be installed in
the DP's new laboratory facilities in Vilkovo and will be used for other investigations as
well. The equipment for in-situ testing will arrive and be tested during year one, with as
priority to locate the sources and types of worst agrochemical pollution and eutrophication.
This is needed for the final selection/elimination of presently proposed solutions. Thus,
execution of improvement measures in SP will start in year two. The project will provide
TA of a hydraulic engineer and a wetland restoration/water quality specialist from the
WWF/Auern Institute Further monitoring of hoped-for water quality improvements and
supervision of civil works construction will be carried out by hired Ukrainian technicians,
who will also work on other areas proposed for improvement, such as Anankin Kut. These
activities are costed under Component 4.
COMPONENT 4: Wetland Restoration (US$300,000)
3.41 The deteriorated condition of a number of wetlands near the DP has been described
above. In addition to those, there has been further modification/destruction of natural
habitats on the Ukrainian side of the Danube, in particular caused by the damming of



- 26 -
tributaries that used to drain the northern steppe, resulting in the creation of, from west to
east, lakes Kagul, Yalpug, Katlabukh and Kitaj, and the empoldering of most of the 1-4km
wide stretch of flood plain between the Danube and the steppe escarpment.
3.42 Although the foregoing areas deserve conservation or restoration of their habitats to
protect some unique vestiges of the former steppe fauna and vegetation, the purpose of the
project - and the available funds - preclude this, being earmarked for the delta itself. In
addition, it is necessary to consolidate first of all the tenuous authority of the DPA.
Enlarging its area of responsibility far away from its present modestly-sized home base
would only acerbate the problems of recognition of its authority.
3.43 In order of importance, to be executed as a function of available funds, support from
the project for wetland restoration will focus on three pilot restorations and two feasibility
studies. In all cases chemical water quality, micro and macro fauna should be monitored in
the "before" and "after" situation.
Stentsovsko-Zhebrijanskie Plavnv (SZP) (US$12,000)
3.44 Flora and the rich bird fauna in these plains suffer from insufficient water circulation
since the construction of the Danube-Sasyk canal in 1984. In addition, the polluted return
flow from 42,000 irrigated ha enters the western Stentsovsko Plavny from the north. The
main task therefore is to restore the water circulation that is presently interrupted because the
gates of the Laptysh canal, of the inverted siphon underneath the Danube-Sasyk canal, and of
the two culverts underneath the Vilkovo-Primorskoye road are kept closed most of the time,
preventing drainage of the SZP. A special contract with the Godwodkhos gate operator from
Ismail would ensure to keep those gates open at all times during a two year monitoring
period to provide alternating inundation and drying periods in an annual cycle. The change
in water quality would be monitored during that period during the months of May and
September under a contract with an Odessa-based institute. The project would also clean the
inverted siphon underneath the Sasyk canal during the autumn low water season. It would
investigate whether water from the Sasyk canal could be supplied through new outlets in the
eastern canal embankment to the (eastern) Zhebrijanskie Plavny during high Danube water
levels in the spring-summer period.
Pilot Blocking of one "Kut" (US$14,000)
3.45 The project would block the open connection made by the local fishing cooperative,
between one of the coastal lakes, such as the Lazarkin Kut, and the Danube and monitor the
change in fauna and flora. This proposal was suggested for several lakes in the consultant's
preparation report. As it is controversial, it was decided to include blocking of only one lake
on a pilot basis. The cost of blocking by barge-mounted clamshell is estimated at
US$14,000. The monitoring is not costed separately as it would be part of the regular
monitoring program.



- 27 -
Vilkovo Canals (US$173,000)
3.46 To restore the unique urban attractiveness of Vilkovo as a tourist destination and so
contribute to potential ecotourism in the delta, the project would re-excavate (by hand) 18 km
of the small internal canals in old-town Vilkovo, estimated at US$22,500. Also, 2 km of the
main canal through Vilkovo has to be dredged and the problem is the long distance to the
nearest disposal site for the dredging spoil. It is estimated that half of the 40,000 m3 to be
dredged can be done by one of the Godwodkhos-owned cutter dredges, near the mouth of the
canal where space is available for hydraulic disposal (US$50,000). However, the remainder
would have to be removed by a barge-mounted clamshell and this would require costly
double handling (US$88,000) for spoil removal. The total of this component, which would
enhance the local population's attitude towards the DPA, would amount to US$160,500.
Ostrov Yermakov (US$3,000)
3.47 A study would be made to see to what extent the use of the Ostrov Yermakov Island
could be restored to a wetland destination keeping in mind that the higher part of the island
is presently used for cattle and horse grazing. The island is located between the Romanian
islands of Cernovka and Babina that will be restored entirely to wetland condition to the
south and the Lenin fish ponds to the north. Local consultants would investigate the
possibilities for a more ecological land use change for the local market and two trips abroad
are foreseen to investigate Hungarian and other solutions for similar conditions.
Kolkhoz "Lenin" Fish Ponds (US$4,000)
3.48 An amount of US$4,000 has been reserved to study the possible conversion of the
1,000 ha of the Lenin Kolkhoz fish ponds to a more remunerative production, preferably for
the eastern European market. The solution has to be ecologically friendly, as the area is
located between the to be restored SZP to the north and Yermakov island to the south. Local
consultants and three brief foreign visits are foreseen to investigate market potential for
aquatic products.
Equipment (US$56,000)
3.49 The project would provide for hydrological and water quality monitoring equipment,
which in the first place would be used by the local consultant/institute and the WWF for the
Stentsovsko-Zhebrijanskie Plavny reclamation program. Of course this equipment would also
be used in other locations of the DP. The equipment would consist of two sets of portable,
complete water and waste water chemical analysis labs, refill packages for 2,000 multiple
analyses, assorted sampling probes, dissolved oxygen, turbidity and pH meters. Also, a
current meter set, staff gauges, a level and one OB motor (for an existing small boat) would
be provided for hydrological measurements.



- 28 -
COMPONENT 5: Public Awareness (US$131,000)
3.50 The communities need to understand why the Delta is important in ways that make
sense to them. It is also important that there be a devolution of management, giving local
people more authority through contracts and concessions between govermnent and private
parties. The Public Awareness group in the DPA will be the primary implementers of this
component, with assistance from the other the rest of the DPA, international and local NGOs
and other organizations. It is important that the evolving process of establishing boundaries
and zoning categories (e.g. core conservation areas and multi-purpose buffer or support
zones) within the Delta be done in a participatory manner, between government, NGO and
local communities, with mutual understanding of the need for maintaining the Delta's
ecological processes. This component has the following overall objectives:
(a)  To raise awareness of the value of the Delta through establishing public
awareness the ecotourism activities and centers and preparing environmental
education materials, field courses, etc. which will encourage involvement; and
(b) To encourage international support for protection of the Danube Delta and the
Black Sea through international information exchange and coordination of action
between the riparian countries.
3.51 The public awareness component comprises the following activities:
(a)  Public Awareness Plan (complementing other management plans);
(b)  Ecological Education Activities;
(c)  Public Awareness Production Capacity and Materials;
(d)  Field and Transport Equipment;
(e)  Interpretive Infrastructure (detailed in Component 1);
(f)  Tourism and Visitor Facilities (detailed in Component 1);
(g)  Support to Local NGOs;
(h)  Technical Assistance by WWF; and
(i)   Black Sea Workshop (detailed in Component 7).
(a) Public Awareness Plan
3.52 During the first year of the project, the DPA Public Awareness Group would develop a
plan that is based on identification of targeted resource users (e.g. fishermen, farmers, school



- 29 -
children, birdwatchers, local and foreign visitors, etc.) to develop appropriate activities for
the different reserve areas, age groups and the implementation of specific management
objectives (e.g. managed hunting, recreation). This activity will require making surveys and
interviews with the resource users, educators, examining the demographics of the areas,
looking at public awareness activity programs in other Ukraine reserves (e.g. Black Sea
Reserve) and nature-based recreation facilities. It will provide the working framework to
guide the implementation of the activities presented in this component. It will be directed by
the DPA Public Awareness staff, but require joint effort by the rest of the DPA staff and
local, regional and international NGOs. The workshops costed in the Biosphere Reserve
Establishment, component will provide a mechanism for the ongoing development of this
plan.
(b) Ecological Education Activities
3.53 Activities would include:
-    Conducting annual workshops on ecological education with teachers, NGOs, regional
representatives of schools and Ministry of Education;
-    Development and implementation of programme for ecological education of
schoolchildren, and adjust with the assistance of NGOs and teachers;
-    Production and distribution of popular brochures, about the DPA project approaches
and objectives, for schools, authorities, services, kolkhozes and cooperatives;
-    Production and distribution of brochures on protected area legislation, including
extracts of laws pertaining to nature protection, and of specific articles, degrees and
laws that apply to the Danube Delta. The laws on protection of soils, water resources,
forests, rare and endangered species should also be included;
-    Prepare lists of protected species found in the Danube Delta with illustrations;
-    Establishment of a mobile herbarium and animal collections for use in schools and
community centers;
-    Prepare slide series and videos of the most common species in the Danube Delta, for
schools (and adult education).;
-    Creation of an Information Visitors Centre, within the main building of the DPA-Office
(see component 1), with audiovisual facilities and exhibitions and video programs on
ecology, nature protection and the natural history of the Danube Delta and the
protected areas;



- 30 -
Popular booklets for the general public, on nature in the Ukrainian Danube Delta, with
photo's, drawings, maps and illustration of interesting species and their habitats;
Organizing schoolcamps (pioneer camps) in the Delta;
Establishing excursion programmes guided by experienced naturalists or guides.
(c) Public Awareness Production Capacity and Materials ($47,000)
3.54 A wide variety of printed and audio-visual materials will be needed to communicate
nature-conservation ideas to different audiences. These include: brochures, stickers,
calendars, posters, videos, slide-shows, information boards, education books, field guide
sets. The following equipment will be funded by the project in order for the PA team of
DPA to be able to produce their own materials, purchase ready-made materials (e.g. posters,
brochures, guidebooks) and contract other companies to produce some materials: video
camera, recorder and TV, slide projector and screen, tapes and film, camera, computer,
lazer printer, photocopier, tapes, film, exhibition tables and herbarium set. These will be
housed in the DPA Headquarters and contribute to the development of the Visitors Center,
exhibits and interpretive infrastructure described in Component 1.
(d) Field and Transport Equipment (included in [c] costs)
3.55 Many of the activities will take place out-of-doors throughout the different reserves,
requiring special equipment for excursions targeted at school groups and visitors (local and
foreign). The guides and education specialists of the DPA will work closely with the
Wardens and the Wetland Researchers in developing effective and safe field excursions.
Equipment to be provided through this activity includes: camping gear for 20 people,
binoculars, an excursion boat for up to 25 people, and 1 jeep. This equipment will also be
utilized for carrying out the other activities outlined in this component. The field activities
will be done with cooperation of the DPA Wetland staff and Wardens, and NGOs.
(e) Interpretive Infrastructure (detailed in Component 1)
3.56 A variety of different physical structures are needed for effective management of the
park including signs, boundary markers, information exhibits, watchtowers. Many of these
will be multi-purpose and effective for both monitoring and public awareness aspects of the
reserve areas. The awareness activities outlined in this component will be developed
concurrently with the design and implementation of these facilities.
(f) Ecotourism Activities and Visitor Facilities (Infrastructure detailed in Component 1)
3.57 As previously expressed, nature-based tourism, or ecotourism, is an effective link
between nature conservation, community development and economic opportunities.



- 31 -
3.58 Although some important tourist centres and activities exist in close vicinity to the
Kiliya Delta hardly any tourists visit the delta. This is partly due to a lack of proper
infrastructure for excursions and visits and to a lack of visitor information on the existence of
the reserve and its rich nature. For example, the village of Primorksye, 20 km north of
Vilkovo, has a capacity of some 2,000 beds for beach tourists. But neither in the village nor
in the resort camps an information can be found on the delta. Occasionally, cruiseboats from
Odessa, with some 200-300 foreign visitors visit Kiliya and Vilkovo.
3.59 The warden stations and the DPA visitor center should accommodate guests, such as,
scientists, professional photographers, ornithologists. Foreign visitors should pay a
reasonable fee for the use of facilities and for arrangements made for them. For them,
western price standards should be introduced. For Ukrainian visitors, national price levels
should be maintained, as a measure to stimulate them to visit the area.
(g) Support to Local NGOs (US$38,000)
3.60 In the Vilkovo and Odessa area there a several NGOs who have been actively working
in the delta for several years. They play an effective role in working with local communities
and add a necessary complement to government-based activities. The project supports the
following NGO activities to be done in coordination with those of DPA:
(i) Support to Nature Protection and Regeneration Fund (NPRF)
3.61 The purpose of the NPRF is to organize citizens to carry out activities that balance
nature protection, maintenance of ecological processes and improvement of public health in
the wetland areas of northern-Ukraine, including the Danube and Dniester delta. Projects
include ecological monitoring, education, socio-economic proposals and legislature and policy
mechanism, including expeditions, lectures, clean-up groups, exhibits, brochures and
attendance at local, regional or international meetings. They are financed by voluntary fees
are registered in Ukraine as the NGRF and have eight years of experience, primarily in the
Dniester delta.
3.62 The NPRF will contribute to both the GEF Danube Delta project and help facilitate
coordination with the GEF Black Sea Project, especially in the area of wetland protection.
They will continue their nature and biodiversity inventories and recommendations for
reserves in Danube, Dniester and Dnieper delta. 30 plots in the whole region have been set
aside for nature inventories, conservation and local community involvement with a total
target area of 100,000 ha. The emphasis will be on the Danube for this project. Activities
will be closely integrated with the Biosphere Reserve Establishment Component.
3.63 NPFR activities will include visiting the plots 5 times year, including pictures and
videos of ecology and human uses to establish a "video-photo bank" of the region, lobbying
governments and monitoring. They will work closely and share equipment with the
following NGO (Ecoclub) through a shared office spaces in Vilkovo, but will also have a
regional office in Odessa, as well as work closely with DPA.



- 32 -
(ii) Support to Ecological Club of Vilkovo
'4 The Ecological Club of Vilkovo is a new NGO that focuses on environmental
education, especially for children. They will conduct workshops as follows: biology courses
for 23 teachers in the Kiliya region, ecological children's summer camp for the 23 Kiliya
schools, Danube expeditions for local visitors, assistance with an information center in
Vilkovo, workshop as conservation and development issues in SZP and monitor articles in
local newspapers.
3.65 The two NGO's (NPRF and Ecoclub) have respective expertise in environment
assessment/lobbying and children's education respectively. Both approaches are needed and
the project proposes the two agencies work together and with the DPA.
3.66 The project will assist NGOs with transport, computers/printers, fax and phones,
video/camera sets with films, office supplies (paper), photocopies and 15 binoculars. The
project will also fund 5 tents (6 people each) and 30 sleeping bags for the Ecoclub. It is
assumed that additional boat needs will be part of the involvement of the local community.
3.67 More specific phasing and role clarification on activities will be developed through the
Public Awareness Plan detailed at the beginning of this component. It is important that the
value and necessity of local community of NGO involvement is understood, appreciated and
utilized by the DPA staff and that a sense of partnership towards common biodiversity
conservation goals realized by all.
(iii) Support to Odessa Zoo
3.68 The Odessa Zoo is a traditional zoo in downtown Odessa with a wide variety of exotic
and indigenous animals; it is strongly hoped that in the near future the zoo will find funds to
establish a "safari park" for the now closely caged animals. This project will fund the
establishment of a wetland exhibit on the present zoo premises, highlighting the value of the
Danube delta. The zoo is an ideal place for public awareness about the Delta as it receives
many visitors from all over Ukraine and can spread the value of the Delta to the Odessa
region, beyond Vilkovo. The exhibits will explain the ecology, natural resource uses and
focus on protection of threatened species in the delta, especially the waterbirds.
(h) Technical Assistance by WWF-Germany
3.69 WWF will contribute on several of the components. A public awareness/education
specialist will come 2 times each year and will contribute to the Public Awareness Plan,
helping the DPA and the NGO's outline appropriate activities and audiences. WWF staff
will help greatly with the communication and cooperation between the DPA, NGO's and
local community, as well as integrating the public awareness component with others, e.g.
design of signs, boundary markers, exhibits (costed in component 1). They will also



- 33 -
contribute directly in helping design and implement a nature program and teacher training for
the areas schools with the Ecoclub, lobbying efforts and international awareness with NGRF.
(i)  One member of the Public Awareness staff will be funded to participate in the Black
Sea Workshop on Public Awareness. This is costed and detailed under Component 7.
COMPONENT 6: Biosphere Reserve Establishment (US$59,000)
3.70 At present the only core protected area in the Ukrainian Danube Delta is the 14,851 ha
part of the Kiliya estuary, now called the Dunaiskie Plavni. This area is only approximately
10% of the Ukraine Danube Delta's 150,000 hectare area. The extensive mosaic of wetland
habitats in the Ukraine are moving towards to extinction without some sort of a
comprehensive management protocol that balances ecological, economic and cultural needs.
A protocol that is increasingly used worldwide for similar valuable but threatened areas is the
"Biosphere Reserve".
3.71 Biosphere Reserves are founded on the basis of nature reserves, national parks and
game reserves or other sites and are part of the global network of Biosphere Reserves.
Within a Biosphere Reserve, special regimes of conservation, resource production and
utilization of natural ecosystems are recognized, in accordance with functional zoning. In
Ukraine these categories are as follows:
-    Reserve (sanctuary) zone: degree of protection similar to nature reserves. In this
zone, important ecosystems, habitats and wildlife populations are preserved. In
Ukraine these zones are referred to as "zapovedniki" and are strictly protected.
-    Buffer zone: is defined in accordance with the protection requirements of the
reserve zone of nature reserves. The purpose of buffer zones is to absorb
possible negative impacts of economic activities on lands bordering the reserved
area. These areas may also play the same role as "game reserves" in Ukraine.
-    Special use zones: includes areas with traditional land uses, water and forest
reserves, settlements and recreation sites, or other types of economic activities.
In Ukraine these areas are called "anthropogenic zones".
3.72 The Danube Delta in Romania was established as a biosphere reserve in 1990. Given
that the Ukraine Delta comprises the same wetland complex and has equivalent biodiversity
and greater economic pressures, the same should be accorded to the delta in Ukraine.
3.73 Given the high population density, political transitions and weak economy of Ukraine
delta region at present, it will be a challenge to give ecological habitats the strict protection
that some require. This requires a zoning strategy that caters to a wide-range of user groups
and habitats a long-term process of ecological monitoring, mapping, community involvement,
planning and protected area designation and staffing must be initiated.



- 34 -
3.74 The project will focus on protecting three areas of critical habitats and wetland
processes, including the Kiliya Delta, the Stentsovsko-Zhebrijanskie Plavny (SZP) and
Yeirmakov Island, together comprising approximately 34,000 ha. The present Dunaski
Plavvny Reserve needs to be expanded to incorporate all of the wetland of the Kiliya Delta
into reserves, buffer zones and special use zone with an emphasis on nature protection. This
would incorporate an area of approximately 25,000 ha. The second area is the SZP, a
valuable marsh complex which is home for some of the primary breeding colonies of herons,
spoonbills and ibises. This area would be zoned with strictly protected areas for the breeding
colonies and game reserves (buffer zones) for fisheries, hunting and vegetation management.
The proposed SZP reserve system would include approximately 7,700 ha. The third area is
Yermakov Island, which is the only remaining river island not fully converted to agriculture
development. It is presently used for some cattle and horsebreeding. The wetland
restoration component includes the preparation of a feasibility study for restoring the island
to its original wetland regime. Across the river in Romania, two adjacent islands are part of
the same ecological complex and are included in the Romanian GEF project for wetland
restoration. This island would become zoned for a nature and game reserve area as part of
the broader biosphere reserve complex in the Delta.
3.75 The establishment of a Biosphere Reserve is a phased process. The three areas
identitfied above repesent only about one half of the total areas in need of protection and
management in the Delta. They must be established as pilot area in light of the broader
context of wetland environments and resource uses throughout the entire Ukrainian Danube
Delta with the eventual establishment of a larger Biosphere Reserve (incorporating
sanctuaries, nature reserves, game areas and anthropogenic zones) area totalling up to 67,000
ha.
3.76 [ he additional areas that should be addressed in the long-term planning framework
irlclude: the Zhebrijankaja Grjada (1,600 ha forest area), the Ozero Kugurluj and Kartal
Plavny (23,600 ha with important bird breeding sites), the riverine forests along the Danube
(1 50 km in each side), the lake shores and steepe zones of Ozero Yalpug (520 ha), Ozero
Kitaj (925 ha) and Ozero Sasyk (2,200 ha), the Cafian-Katlabukh Plavny (1,000 ha of
important bird breeding habitats) and the river islands of Bolshoj Daller, Malyj Daller, Malyj
Tatarv and Katenika (total 1,500 ha). The management plans that are developed should also
take into account the importance of the extensive lakes and limans beyond the Danube Plavny
region.
3.77 This component will largely be directed by the DPA with assistance from the MEP, the
Ukrainian national "Mar and Biosphere" Programme Committe and the Ukrainian Institute
and Land Design. The involvement of the process must be done closely with the Public
Awareness Staff Team of the DPA. The WWF will assist with the identification of
ecologically sensitive and significant areas, preparation of a land-use plan and management
objectives for these areas. This component will largely draw on all of the information from
the other components. Only with detailed descriptions at hand, the public user organizations,
authorities and NGO's learn about objectives and aims for protected areas.



- 35 -
3.78 The following items should be described in a Management Plan for each area reserve:
(i)  site description and ecological and political boundaries;
(ii)  nature conservation values, biodiversity values, vegetation and ecosystem
characteristics;
(iii)  socio-economic situation;
(iv)  legislative and administrative contexts;
(v)  laws and regulations pertaining to the protected area;
(vi)  objectives for management of protected areas (area and resource-specific);
(vii) scientific justification for proposed management measures;
(viii) tasks and responsibilities for management, including authorities; and
(ix)  supporting explanatory maps of zones and resource use.
3.79 In addition, or as part of the above, specific management strategies are needed for
wildlife, hydrological regimes, agriculture, forestry and ecotourism management in the delta.
These resource uses are both the opportunity and constraints for "wise-use" in the delta.
Resource-specific (e.g. wildlife and tourism) management plans are identified in more detail
in the other components, but they would feed into this overall planning framework. The
"data-management" subcomponent in the Ecosystem Monitoring Component details "GIS"
technology to digitize environmental and socio-economic data into thematic maps that will
become part of the management plan production.
3.80 The project will support the following activities to establish a biosphere reserve in the
delta:
(a)   Preparation of Management Plans and Maps (Production and Publication Costs):
While the project will focus various activities in the three areas described earlier
(DP reserve, SZP and Yermakov Island) in the development of a multi-purpose
biosphere reserve, these must serve as the pilot areas for broader applications for
the rest of the Ukrainian Danube Delta. Therefore, a series or phased
management plan(s) is necessary for both specific areas and ecological and socio-
economic needs within and beyond these areas.
(b)  Local Workshops: This activity would fund two workshops per year in Vilkovo
for 35 people throughout the project to provide formal opportunities for
community leaders to provide information and comments on the planning and
reserve establishment process.



- 36 -
(c)  National Seminars: In order to encourage exchange between the local
communities, and regional authorities as well as assistance from lessons learned
in other Ukrainian reserves, a national 4-day seminar in the region would be held
in years two and four of the project, with up to 40 participants.
(d)  Ukraine/Romania Delta Seminars: To ensure coordination and complementary
actions of the Delta on both sides of the Danube, a four day seminar in years one
and three of the project will be held for four days, for up to 30 people.
(e)  International Seminar: An international seminar would be held to share the
results of the project and help ensure conservation and biodiversity goals and
actions are continued beyond the life of this pilot phase, as well as have the
lessons learned about delta ecosystem management and protection shared to a
global audience.
(f)   Technical Assistance - WWF Germany: WWF will be providing assistance to a
number of components. With respect to Biosphere Reserve establishment they
will help with the planning and zoning process especially in light of ecological
needs through sending one expert for two weeks, two times per year.
(g)  Technical Assistance - Legal and Cadastral: Local experts on legislation, law
and cadastral survey will provide 1 month of assistance each during each year of
the project.
(h)  Technical Assistance - Resident Advisor: The Resident Advisor will play a key
facilitation role in the biosphere reserve establishment process, both in ensuring
that concrete activities along the way are implemented as well as providing the
stimulation for a long-term focus and vision of a biosphere reserve. This is
costed in Component 1.
COMPONENT 7: Regional Initiatives and Coordination (US$10,700)
3.81 As described earlier in the report, there is a parallel GEF project, targeted at pollution
mitigation of the Black Sea, entitled Black Sea Environmental Management Program. One
component of this project is the Black Sea Coastal Biodiversity Strategy which will
emphasize wetland conservation. The Ukraine and Romania Danube Delta projects will
serve as valuable pilot effort for in-situ nature protection as part of this broader regional
initiative.
3.82 Black Sea Biodiversitv Strategy Cooperation: The project will fund the participation of
DP staff in a series of workshops that will be developed as part of the Black Sea Biodiversity
Strategy. These include small, focused training workshops on:



- 37 -
(a)  Public Awareness and Environmental Education for Black Sea Wetland, proposed
to be held in Turkey in September 1994. One member of the DPA Public
Awareness staff would be funded to attend the 1 week workshop.
(b)  Planning Approaches (National Plans and Management Plans), tentatively
proposed to be held in Romania (funded by the GEF Romania Danube Project)
for 1 week in October of 1994. One DPA staff from the Biosphere Reserve
Establishment Team would be funded to attend.
(c)  Bird Inventory and Monitoring Methods: This one week workshop is proposed
to be held in Russia in 1995. A DPA ornithologist would be funded to
participate.
3.83 Cooperation with Romania GEF Danube Delta Project: Many references to this
parallel project have been made in this report. There will be an emphasis on continued
cooperation and data exchange between these two projects to ensure the delta is managed as
an integrated ecosystem between the two countries. Components 1, 2, 3 have already funded
cooperative training and seminars. A lump sum of US$3,000 is set aside here to reserve
funds for future cooperative activities that are not yet detailed.
3.84 Other Initiatives: There are several other regional initiatives and/or advisory groups
that the Ukraine project staff need to have access to, again to both contribute and have new
ideas. Examples include participation with the Mamand Biosphere Program, IUCN's
Wetland Advisory Board, Birdlife International activities through their Important Bird Areas
and IWRB. A lump sum of US$5,000 is provided for participation in these or similar
initiatives that arise through the project.
COMPONENT 8: Endowment Fund Establishment (US$12,200)
3.85 Ukraine's budgetary situation is very difficult, and the situation is unlikely to improve
over the next five years. Continued financing of protected area management after the GEF
support is over may well be very difficult. One mechanism which has been developed in
several countries facing similar difficulties is establishment of a Trust Fund, the income from
which would be used to finance the recurrent costs of managing a protected area. At
present, funding for such a trust Fund is not available. However, it is proposed under the
project to finance the technical expertise necessary to put in place the administrative, legal
and financial mechanisms for establishing such a Fund. This would assist the Ukrainian
government in seeking capital finance for the Fund. A similar Fund has already been
established for the East Carpathians National Park, also with the support of a GEF project.
3.86 The project would fund three weeks for foreign and three weeks of local legal/financial
expertise, in the third year of the project, to undertake the preparatory work for establishing
the fund. The activities to be funded through such a fund and their cost would be decided



- 38 -
together with DPA and MEP officials, the realistic minimum size of the fund would be
determined, together with the best form of investment management arrangement, and the
legal and administrative steps required. TOR are summarized in Annex 3.
C. Project Costs
3.87 Total project costs are indicated below in Table 1. They are estimated at US$1.74
million including physical and price contingencies and US$1.54 million base costs. Foreign
exchange comprises 32% of total project costs. Taxes are estimated at 4.6% of total project
costs. Given the present hyperinflation in the Ukraine, all costs have been expressed in US
dollars, and the MUV price projections have been used to calculate price contingencies.
Physical plus price contingencies constitute 13% of total project costs.
Table 2: Project Cost Summary
% % Total
(US$'000 equivalent)            Foreign     Base
Local       Foreiqn      Total        Exchange    Costs
COMPONENTS:
1. DP Authority Strengthening          561.0       189.8        750.8            25        49
2. Warden Strengthening                157.8          8.9       166.8             5        11
3. Monitoring, Database Management      77.7        32.7        110.4            30         7
4. wetland Restoration                 218.1         82.7       300.8            28        20
5. Public Awareness                      2.0       129.4         131.4           98         9
6. Biosphere Reserve Establishment     27.2         32.3         59.5            54         4
7. Regional Initiatives & Coordination   -           10.7        10.7           100         1
8. Endowment Fund Establishment         2.6           9.6        12.2            79         1
TOTAL                     1,046.3        496.2      1.S42.6            32       100
Physical Contingencies                 104.6        49.6         154.3           32        10
Price Contingencies                    27.2          13.3        40.5            33         3
GRAND TOTAL                1,178.1        559.2     1,737.3            32       113
3.88 The financing plan is indicated in Table 3 below. GOU would in addition provide
local staff, use of existing research facilities and use of some existing boats and laboratory
equipment. These items have not been costed, however, although GOU have committed to
providing the incremental staff they have not indicated what their salaries would be.
Operating costs, financed initially by the GEF and included in total costs, are estimated at
US$160,000 over the project period and US$47,000 per year by year 4.
Table 3: Financing Plan (US$ million equivalent)
Local       Foreign        Total
GEF                            0.94         0.56         1.50
GOU                            0.24*    0.0              0.24
* Plus contribution in kind (research facilities, incremental staff, etc.)



- 39 -
D. Procurement
3.89  Procurement methods are indicated in Table 4. Civil works total US$0.75 million
and comprise principally construction of the new headquarters of the DPA (US$0.3 million),
staff housing (US$0.08 million), renovation of the Vilkovo canal (US$0.17 million) and
scattered earthmoving and structure renovation throughout the delta. Although the local
contracting industry is not developed an attempt will be made to use local shopping
procedures for these works, by obtaining quotes from three qualified local suppliers for each
contract for items such as dredging and building construction.
3.90  Goods total US$0.48 million and comprise vehicles (US$0.085 million), motorcycles
(US$0.02 million), engines (US$0.04 million), computers (US$0.04 million), water quality
measuring equipment (US$0.05 million) and other laboratory, office and field equipment and
furniture. These items cannot easily be purchased by ICB. They will be packaged as far as
possible; packages above US$20,000, up to an estimated US$280,000, will be purchased in
accordance with international shopping procedures consistent with IBRD Procurement
Guidelines on the basis of at least three price quotations from suppliers from at least three
different eligible source countries. Packages below US$20,000 up to an aggregate of
US$200,000 will be purchased by local shopping on the basis of a minimum of three price
quotations from qualified local suppliers.
3.91  Technical assistance and training total an estimated US$0.35 million. Of this, study
tours total US$0.09 million, local training US$0.04 million, foreign technical assistance
US$0.123 million, local technical assistance US$0.035 million and workshops US$0.06
million. US$55,000 of the foreign technical assistance would be provided directly by WWF
and Birdlife free of fees, the project financing only transport and per diem costs. All other
training and technical assistance would be procured using IBRD Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants' Services of August 1981.
3.92  Recurrent costs comprise fuel, operation and maintenance of goods purchased under
the project, materials and office supplies, and exclude salaries, telephone and electricity.
They would be purchased using procedures acceptable to IBRD. GOU agreed at
Negotiations to use the procedures outlined above.



- 40 -
Table 4: Procurement Financed by GEF
Procurement Methods (US$ million)
ICB       LCB       Other      Total
Civil Works                -          -          0.751      0.75
(0.60)     (0.60)
Goods                      -          -          0.482      0.48
(0.44)     (0.44)
Foreign Training,          -          -          0.353      0.35
TA & Workshop                                  (0.35)     (0.35)
Recurrent Costs            -          -          0.164      0.16
(0.12)     (0.12)
Total                 -          _           1.74       1.74
_          -          (1.5)      (1.5)
"   Local shopping.
2/  Local shopping (US$200,000) and international shopping (US$280,000)
31  IBRD guidelines for procurement of consultants and training services.
41  Procedures acceptable to IBRD.
(Figures in parentheses indicate sums financed by GEF; figures may not add up to exactly US$1.5
million due to rounding.)
E. Disbursements
3.93   The Project is expected to be completed in about four years and the grant to be
disbursed over four and a half years. Project completion is expected by June 30, 1998 and
grant closing by December 31, 1998.
3.94   The GEF grant would disburse funds at the following rates:
Table 5: Disbursements
Category                            GEF Grant Allocation             Amount
(US$M equivalent)
Civil Works                         80%  of expenditures              0.5
Goods                               100% of expenditures              0.4
Seminars, Training, TA              100% of expenditures              0.35
Recurrent Costs                     100% of expenditures              0.12*
Unallocated                                                           0.13
1.5
C   Including fuel, materials, office supplies and maintenance of goods
purchased under the project, and excluding salaries and utilities.



- 41 -
Table 6: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year        FY95 FY96  FY97 FY98
Annual                   0.4  0.5   0.4  0.2
Cumulative               0.4   0.9   1.3  1.5
3.95   Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures for incremental
operating costs, civil works, goods procured through direct purchases or prudent shopping,
and training and technical assistance locally and abroad. Use of SOE would be limited to
contracts under US$100,000 except for contracts related to operating costs, consultants
services and training, where the limit would be US$20,000. Implementing agencies would
retain support documentation for these items for review by IBRD and external auditors. At
negotiations, the Recipient agreed to the disbursement arrangements outlined above
[para 5.01(i)].
3.96   The Recipient agreed to establish a special account at a Commercial Bank satisfactory
to the IBRD to facilitate implementation of the project into which it would deposit
US$150,000 of GEF grant funds. This account would be opened in accordance with
arrangements for existing Bank assisted projects, and would be used for most disbursements.
3.97   A consolidated report will be prepared annually by MEP, within 2 months of each
calendar year. In addition, an annual audit will be carried out by the Treasury inspectors,
including specific reference to, and comments on, SOEs and supporting documents and
disbursements from the special account, and submitted to the Bank within nine months of the
end of each fiscal year. At negotiations the Recipient agreed that these accounting and
auditing practices would be followed [para 5.01(j)].
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
A. Project Organization and Implementation
4.01   The MEP will have overall responsibility for the Project, including procurement,
disbursement, maintenance of Project accounts and coordination of implementation. The
Academy of Sciences of Ukraine has responsibility for realization of general scientific
coordination and scientific support in implementation. MEP staff will provide initial
assistance to DPA staff in establishing project implementation schedules and reporting
procedures, and would assist in obtaining assistance from other institutes for implementation
of the various components.
4.02   Day-to-day responsibility for project implementation will be with the DPA, whose
staff are being increased and trained to take on their new expanded role (described in para



- 42 -
3.03). The Recipient agreed at negotiations to the staff plan outlined in para 3.03 and agreed
to make the necessary budgetary allocations for this. The Academy of Sciences, which has
ultimate responsibility for the DPA (and for budget allocations to it), has revised the legal
status of the DPA; as of January 1994 it was established as an independent institute, able to
maintain its own financial accounts, directly under the Academy. At negotiations the
Recipient provided a copy of the administrative arrangements confirming that this had
occurred [para 5.01(j)].
4.03   Although small, the Project requires the support of several agencies for its effective
implementation. As mentioned above a foreign advisor would assist DPA and MEP in project
management and implementation through periodic visits through the project period, and
WWF experts will assist with implementation of the biosphere expansion, GIS monitoring
and public awareness activities. IWRB would assist with bird monitoring and public
awareness connected with this activity. Review of project implementation by the Ukrainian
scientific community and protected area management experts will contribute to project
success. A small scientific advisory committee has been established (maximum 8 persons),
consisting of experts from the MEP, the Academy of Sciences, and experts in protected area
management (e.g., managers of the Carpathian reserve or experts from the Ministry of
Forestry), which will meet quarterly to review work accomplished and offer advice and
assistance. It will report to the Deputy Minister of the MEP in charge of protected areas.
The Recipient agreed on the staffing of this committee at negotiations [para 5.01 (c)].
4.04   MEP and DPA are responsible for the strengthening of the DPA; increased staff will
be provided by the Academy of Sciences. Newly appointed wardens will be graduates of the
forest and game management technical colleges or the University of Zaporoje, and selected
wardens will also attend initial training in Romania. MEP will be responsible for identifying
appropriate follow-up training. The activities connected with protected area expansion will be
implemented by DPA and NGOs with the help of the MEP, the WWF and the Ukrainian
Land Design Institute. The monitoring will be implemented by DPA experts (and WWF)
with assistance from the relevant specialized institutes, including the Institute of Zoology for
reptiles and birds, the Institute of the Biology of the Southern Seas for hydrobiological
monitoring, and the Ukrainian Scientific Center of Ecology for hydrochemical monitoring.
4.05   As regards wetland restoration, the Government Organization for Aquatic Economy
Gosvodkhoz and the Odessa-based hydrometereological Institute Hydromet will assist with
the SZP wetlands restoration, the Ukrainian Land Design Institute (and WWF) with the study
on Yermakov, WWF and DPA with the lake protection in the DP, and the municipality of
Vilkovo with town canals rehabilitation. Local NGOs (the Ecological Club of Vilkovo, the
Odessa Zoo and the Nature Protection and Regeneration Fund) will assist the DPA and MEP
with the public awareness component.
4.06 At negotiations the Recipient agreed to the organizational arrangements outlined
below [para 5.01(b)].



- 43 -
B. Project Monitoring and Supervision
4.07   Proposals for establishment of ecosystems monitoring arrangements are discussed in
component 3. It must be emphasized that monitoring has been adapted to the project budget
and the capacity of the implementing institutions. Monitoring of the impact of the pilot
ecosystems restoration components has been built into each activity. Reporting is described
above. The WWF expert and resident advisor will help the DPA initially with preparation of
formats and content of progress reports.
4.08 The Implementation plan is summarized in Annex 2. The DPA will prepare short
quarterly progress reports outlining progress and highlighting problems. The MEP will
consolidate these into longer 6-monthly progress reports, which will be translated into
English for onward transmittal to the World Bank. DPA will prepare annual work program
and budgets for review and approval by MEP and the Academy of Sciences; these work
programs would specify the support to be given by other institutes and organizations in the
coming year. At negotiations, the Recipient agreed to the reporting schedule outlined above
[para 5.01(g)]. It is expected that the Project would require approximately eight weeks of
supervision per year, to be carried out in conjunction with the supervision of the Romanian
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project. Skills required would include a wetlands ecologist with
protected area management experience, and a hydrologist. After two years a mid-term
review would be carried out jointly by a Ukrainian team and the World Bank, and the project
redesigned as necessary. Terms-of-reference for the review would be prepared 18 months
into project implementation. At negotiations, the Recipient agreed to carry out a mid-term
review with the Bank [para 5.01(g)].
C. Public Participation
4.09  Public participation and community involvement is built into the design of the
protected area expansion program (component 2) and also into the public awareness and
ecological education activities (component 5). Given the rather high population densities and
the difficult experience with protecting the DPA to date, particular attention has been given
to the design of these components; the need for cooperation of local communities is even
more important than in Romania.
D. Project Benefits and Risks
4.10  Given the isolation and neglect of the DPA and the very limited attention that it has
received to date from the international community (or from the Ukrainian authorities),
support from the GEF will be of particular benefit. It should increase international
understanding of the ecological process of the Ukrainian portion of the Danube delta. Most
importantly, by strengthening and reorienting the DPA, the Project should help to introduce
public support for the effective protected area management that is necessary to conserve the
biodiversity of this key part of the delta. It will establish appropriate land-use planning for
sustainable resource use in the areas surrounding the core areas, conserving and restoring
breeding grounds for delta wildlife.



- 44 -
4.11   The Project has a number of risks. Most important is the implementation capacity of
the DPA, which without substantial support and expansion will not be able to play the role
assigned to it in this project. At the local level, the DPA is currently not able to plan and
manage the reserve in a manner consistent with protecting biodiversity. The MEP is
committed to the Project, and the Academy of Sciences has agreed to budget the staff
expansion and provide technical support. Progress will be reviewed carefully after two
years, and the situation reassessed if necessary. The second risk concerns the introduction of
participatory land use planning techniques in a country which has very little experience of
them. This can only be fully assessed once implementation starts. A project objective is to
improve coordination between management of the Ukrainian and Romanian portions of the
Delta. During preparation, this proved extremely difficult because of inadequate
communications between Tulcea and Vilkovo. It will take time for the situation to improve.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.01   At negotiations, the Recipient agreed to or confirmed the following:
(a)   The broad staffing plan and budget for it outlined in para 3.03;
(b)   The organizational arrangements, including support by other agencies, outlined
in paras 4.01 to 4.06;
(c)   Establishment of a Scientific Advisory Committee, as outlined in para 4.03;
(d)   Provision of land for the proposed new DPA headquarters and evidence that
arrangements have been made to rent adequate office space in the meantime
(para 3.06);
(e)   The project implementation schedule mentioned in para 4.08 and outlined in
Annex 2;
(f)   The project reporting and monitoring arrangements, and mid-term review
outlined in para 4.08;
(g)   The procurement arrangements described in paras 3.89 to 3.92;
(h)   The disbursement arrangements described in paras 3.93 to 3.97;
(i)   Maintenance and auditing of project accounts and establishment of a Special
Account as outlined in paras 3.96 to 3.97; and
(j)   Establishment of DPA as an independent entity directly under the Academy of
Sciences (para 4.02).



Ukraine
Danube Delta Blodiversity Project
Project Components by Year
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1994    1995    1996    1997    Total
1. Danube Plavny Authority Strengthening                     293.1   242.9   193.9   115.7   845.6
2. Warden Strengthening                                        40.5    98.9    36.7       11.4   187.4
3. Monitoring and Database Management                          20.4    71.9    17.9    14.1   124.3
4. Pilot Wetland Restoration                                   77.8   119.6   136.5       4 .9   338.8
5. Public Awareneas                                            85.9    33.3      14.5    13.4   147.1
6. Biosphere Reserve Establi3hment                             12.8    11.7      13.5    30.0    68.1
7. Coordination with Romania and Regional Initiatives           5.2      2.2      2.3     2.3    12.1
8. Endownment Fund Establishment                                  -        -    13.9        -    13.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                              535.7   580.5   429.2   191.9 1,737.3
Fri Feb 18 16:14:37 1994
(D M
ron
X
H
h
r)



Ukraine
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Exxpenditure Aacounts by Years
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1994    1995    1996    1997    Total
I. Investment Coats
A. Civil Works                           201.5   239'.5   233.1    70.4   744.5
B. Vehicles and Boats                     81.1   101.7      2.5        -   185.3
C. Technical Assistance and Studies    57.7    72.1    62.8    40.1   232.8                         1
D. Training                               45.1    11.0    13.0    11.5    80.7                       -
E. Equipment and Supplies                120.2   113.1    66.7       1.2   301.1
F. Seminars/Workshop                       4.6     3.4      4.7    20.9    33.7
Total Investment Coats                       510.2   540.8   382.8   144.2 1,578.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating Costs                        25.5    39.7    46.3    47.7   159.2
Total Recurrent Costs                         25.5    39.7    46.3    47.7   159.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                           535.7   580.5   429.2   191.9 1,737.3
Fri Feb 18 16:14:40 1994
oQD
X X
oH,



Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Expenditure Ancounts by C ponents - Totalo Inaluding Contingencies
(US$ ' )
Coordination
Danube                     Monitoring                                             with
Plavny                        and         Pilot                  Biosphere   Romania and   Endowrment
Authority       Warden       Database    Wetland    Public          Reserve       Regional        Fund
Strenqtheninq'Strenqtheninq Hanageinent Restoration Awareness Establishment Initiatives  Establishment  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                   137.4           81.2           -        225.9          -                                            -   744.5
B. Vehicles and Boats                             5B.0           37.5        23.0          4.8       62.0                                                185.3
C. Technical Assistance and Studies             139.9               -           -         37.8       11.4           29 .9             -           13.9   232.8
D. Training                                      33.7            15.7        14.7            -          -            4 5          12.1               -    80.7
E. Equipment and Supplies                       125.1            30.5        49.4         58.1       38.1               -                            - _  301.1
F. Seminars/Workshop                                 -              -           -            -          -           33.7             --    33.7
Total Investment Cotst                               794.1          164.9        87.1        326.5      111.4            68.1          12.1           13.9 1,578.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating Costs                                51.5           22.5        37.2         12.3       35.7               -             -            _     159.2
Total Recurrent Costs                                 51.5           22.5        37.2         12.3       35.7               -             -                   159.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   845.6          187 .4      124 .3        388       147.1            68.1          12.1           13.9 1,737.3
TaKes                                                39.3           10.9         6 3         21.3          -                                            -    77. 8
Foreign Exchange                                    213.4           10.0        37.2         93.7      144.8           37 0           12.1           11.0   559.2
Fri Feb 18 16:14:33 1994
x
0
OH
-h
1-



Ukraine
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
InriJlation and rxahange Rates
Up to
Up to    Project
Negotiation  Start  1994  1995  1996  1997
Inflation (in   a)s /a.
all
Annual rates
.Local                                   0.0      0.0   1.3   1.2   2.4   3.2
Foreign                                 0.0      0.0   1.3   1.2   2.4   3.2
Coupounded rates
Local                                   0.0      0.0   0.6   1.9   3.7   6.7                 c
Foreign                                 0.0      0.0   0.6   1.9   3.7   6.7                 1
Exchange rates (Looal/ror.ign) Jb
all
Rates actually used                         1.0     1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
Constant purchasing parity rates            1.0     1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
% deviation                                 0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
\a Yearly values are within Each Project Year
\b Yearly values are at Project Year Midpoints
Wed Nov 17 18:34:31 1993
p.
CQ
(D rd



-49-                                                       Annex 1
Ukraine
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project                                        Page  5  of  12
Table 1. Strengthening of the Danube Plavny Authority
Detailed Costs
Unit
Quantities              Cost         Base Cost 4US$ '000)
Unit   1994  1995  1996  1997  Total  (USS)  1994  1995  1996  1997  Total
I. Intvetrnat Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Office, Visitors Cent.                              lumpaum    0.2   0.3   0.3   0.2          1 294,840  59 .0  88.5  88.5  S9.0 294.8
2. Directors House                                     lumpsum        -      -      -      -     -               -      -      -      -     -
3. Staff Housing Renovation                            lumpsum       10      -      -      -    10   8, 640  86.4      -      -      -  86.4
4. Notice Boards                                          each        -      -      4      -     4      432      -     -   1.7       -   1.7
5. Boundary/Signposts                                     each       25    25       -      -    SO      108   2.7   2.7       -      -   5.4
Subtotal Civil Works                                                                                            148.1  91.2  90.2  59.0 388.4
B. Goods
1. Office Equipment and Materials
Canteen (20 person)                                 lumpaum       -      -      1      -      1   6,912      -      -   6.9       -   6.9
Kitchen Equipment                                   lumpsum        -     -      1      -      1   5, 400     -      -   5.4       -   5.4
Conference Room, Furniture, Equipment               lumpsum       -      -      1      -     1  11,016       -      -  11.0       -  11.0
Visiting Lodge Furniture                              each         -     -    10       -    10      324      -      -   3.2       -   3.2
Individual Office Equipment                           set        10      -    1S       -    25      216   2.2       -   3.2       -   5.4
PC                                                    each        -      4      -      -     4   1, 00       -   7.2       -      -    . 2
PC Printer                                            each        -      2      -      -     2   1,500       -   3.0       -      -   3.0
Software                                              each        -      3      -      -      3   1,000      -   3.0       -      -   3.0
Telephone                                             each        -      -    10       -    10      108      -      -   1.1       -   1.1
Office Furniture                                      set        10      -    15       -    25      540   5.4       -   8.1       -  13.5
Garage Tools                                          set          -     1      -      -      1  23, 000     -  23.0       -      -  23.0
Cars  (1 car and 1 Van)                               each        -      2      -      -      2  13, 000     -  26.0       -      -  26.0
Motorcycles                                           each       10    10       -      -    20   1,080  10.8  10.8         -      -  21.6
Bicycles                                              each       10    10       -      -    20      216   2.2   2.2        -      -   4.3
Field Radio Equipment                                 set         1      -      -      -     1  21,600  21.6        -      -      -  21.6
Subtotal Office Equipment and Materials                                                                       2 .1  75.2  39.0       - 156.3
C. Technical Advisor
1. Resident Advisor                                      mmts         1      1     1      -      3  13, 500  13.5  13.5  13.5        -  40.5
2. Airline Ticket                                       ticket        1      1     1      -      3   1, 000   1.0   1.0   1.0        -   3. 0
3. Board and Lodging                                    month         1     1      1      -      3   1,600   1.6   1.6   1.6         -   4 .
4. Miscellaneous Travel                                 month         2      1     1      -      4     400   0.8   0.4   0 .4        -   1.6
5. Procurement Advisor                                   mMts         I      -     -      -      1  16 500  16.5       -      -      -  16.5
Subtotal Technical Advisor                                                                                      13.4  16.5  16.5        -  66.4
D. Training
1. Fees for Trainer (English)                             mo         6      6      6      6    24      200   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   4. 8
2. Fees for Trainer (Computer)                            mO         2      2      2      2      a     200   0.4   0.4   0.4   0 .4   1.6
3. Tape Recorder                                         each        6      -      2      -     8      500   3 .0      -   1.0       -   4 .0
4. Books (40 people)                                     no.          I     -   0.5       -   1.5   1, 000   1.0       -   0.5       -   1.5
5. Cassettes Tapes                                       no.          1     -   0.5       -   1.5   1,000   1.0        -   0.5       -   1.5
Subtotal Training                                                                                                6.6   1.6   3.6   1.6  13.4
E. Training - Wetland Study Tour
1. Airline Tickets                                     persons       S      -      -      -     5   1,000   5.0        -      -      -   5.0
2. Per diem                                             person       S      -      -      -     5   2,000  10.0        -      -      -  10.0
3. Study tour host Ukraine                              person       I      -      -      -      1   1, 000   1.0      -      -      -   1.0
4. 1 week per diem                                      person        1     -      -      -      1     350   0. 4      -      -      -   0. 4
5. Tution Fees                                          person       S      -      -      -     5   1, 500   7.5       -      -     -   7.5
Subtotal Training - Wetland Study Tour                                                                          23.9      -      -      -  23.9
F. Technical Assistance - Wetland gm. Courcse
1. Fees for 2 Traniers                                 per week      -      4      -      4     8   3, 000      -  12.0       -  12.0  24.0
2. Per diam for 2 Trainers                             per week      -      4      -      4     8      350      -   1.4       -   1.4   2 .8
3. Alrline Tickets                                      person       -      2      -      4     6   1,000       -   2.0       -   4 0   6.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance - Wetland Mgm. Course                                                                -  1S 4       -  17.4  32.8
G. Guidance to tbe Project
Scientific Advisory Committee                             mo         3      3      3      3    12      200   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   2.4
Administrative & Technical Support                        mo        12     12    12    12    48        200   2. 4   2. 4   2.4   2.4   9.6
Annual Audit                                              y;         -      1      1      1     3   1, 000      -   1.0   1.0   1.0   3.0
Bookkeeper                                                mo        12    12    12    12    48         200   2 .4   2.4   2.4   2.4   9.6
Subtotal Guidance to tbe Project                                                                                 5 4   6 4   6 4   6 4  24.6
Total Inventsent Costs                                                                                             259.4 206.2 155.7  84.4 705.7
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Paper Supplies                                         lumpsum        1      1   1.5   1.5       5   1, 000   1.0   1.0   1.5   1.5   5.0
B. Fuel                                                     'OOOL     2.5   7.5   7.5   7.5    25         300   0 . a   2.3   2.3   2.3   7.5
C. Communication                                          lumpaum        1      1     2      2      6   1,000   1.0   1.0   2.0   2.0   6.0
D. Building Maintenence                                   lumpaui      0.5   0.5      1      1      3   1,000   0.5   0.5   1.0   1.0   3.0
E. Equipment Maintenance                                  lumpsum                                                2.1   5.9   7.8   7 .8  23.6
Total Recurrent Cote                                                                                                  5 .4  10.6  14.6  14.6  45.1
Total                                                                                                                26 .8 216 8 170.2  9t89 750.8
Fri Feb 18 16:14:48 1994
1-1 Strengthening of the Danube Plavny Authority



- 50 -                                                    Annex 1
Page 6 of 12
Ukraine
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Table 2. Warden Strengthening
Detailed Costs
Unit
Ouantities               Cost       Base Cost (US$ '000)
Unit   1994  1995  1996  1997  Total (US$)  1994  1995  1996  1997  Total
}. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Wardens Station                      each         1      2     1      _      4 16,200  16.2  32.4  16.2         -  64.8
2. Lookout towers                       each         -      2     2      -      4  1,08O       -   2.2   2.2       -   4.3
3. Bird Blinds                          each         -      3     3      4    10    324        -   1.0   1.0   1.3   3.2
Subtotal Civil Work                                                                            16.2  35.5  19.3   1.3  72.4
B. Goods
1. Furniture                            each         1     2      1      -      4  1,512   1.S   3.0   1.5         -   6.0
2. Kitchens                             each         1     2      1      -      4    324   0.3   0.6   0.3         -   1.3
3. Sole Panels and Accu.                each         1     2      1      -      4  1,080   1.1   2.2   1.1         -   4.3
4. Rescue Equipt.                       each         1      -     -      -      1  2,700   2.7       -      -      -   2.7
S. Infrared Binoculars                  each         1     -      -      -      1  2,160   2.2       -      -      -   2.2
6. Uniforms                             each        10    10      -      -    20    540   5.4   5.4         -      -  10.8
7. 4 Wheel Drive                        each         -      I     -      -      1 16,200       -  16.2      -      -  16.2
8. 25 Hp Motors                         each         -     4      -      -      4  4,320      -  17.3       -      -  17.3
Subtotal Goods                                                                                 13.2  44.7   2.9       -  60.8
C. Training
1. Over-as Study Tour
Airline Tickets /a                   ,.rson       1     -      -      -      1    600   0.6       -      -      -   0.6
Per diem /b                         aaUunt       I      -      -     -      1  1,400   1.4        -            -   1.4
Tution Fees                         person       1      -      -     -      1    750   0.8        -      -     -   0.8
Subtotal Overseas Study Tour                                                                2.9      -      -      -   2.8
2. Protection Course
Tution Fee /c                         no.        2      2      2     2      8    100   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.8
Per diem                              no.        2      2      2     2      8    300   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   2.4
Transport                             no.        2      2      2     2      8    100   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.8
Materials                             rIo.       1      1      1      1     4    200   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.8
Subtotal Protection Course                                                                  1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   4.8
3. Roaania Foundation Course
Transport  /d                         no.       10      -    10      -    20    100   1.0         -   1.0      -   2.0
Per Diem  /a                        lumpsum                                              0.6      -   0.6      -   1.2
Subtotal Rraania Foundation Course                                                          1.6      -   1.6       -   3.2
4. Public Awareness Course
Materials /f                          no.        1      1      1      1     4    400   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   1.6
5. Wildlife Management
Materials                             no.        1      1      1     1      4    400   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   1.6
Subtotal Training                                                                              6.4   2.0   3.6   2.0  14.0
Total Investment Costs                                                                             35.7  82.2  25.8   3.3 147.1
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Car (2500L/veh/yr)                       'OOOL       -   2.5   2.5   2.5   7.5    300          -   0.8   0.8   0.8   2.3
B. Motors (1SOOL/boat/yr                    'COOOL      -      6     6      6    18    300        -   1.8   1.8   1.8   5.4
C. Warden Station                         lumpsum       1     3      4      4    12    200   0.2   0.6   0.8   0.8   2.4
D. Equipment Maintenance                    'OOOL                                              0.7   2.9   3.0   3.0   9.6
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                               0.9   6.0   6.4   6.4  19.7
Total                                                                                               36.6  88.3  32.2   9.7 166.8
\a 1 participant for 2 weeks
\b $100 per day for 14 days.
\c For 20 wardens by 2 U)rainian trainers for 2 weeks per year.
\d 10 wardens for 2 weeks
\e 10 wardens for 2 weeks.
\f 20 participants for 3 weeks per year.
Fri Feb 18 16:14:58 1994
1-1 Warden Strengthening



- 51                                                    Annex 1
Page 7 of 12
Ukraine
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Table 3. Monitoring and Database Management
Detailed Costs
Unit
Quantities               Cost        Base Cost (USS '000)
Unit   1994  1995  1996  1997  Total (USS)  1994  1995  1996  1997  Total
I. Inveetanet Coetu
A. Ecosystem Monitoring - Flora/Pauna
1. SurveY J Itavenktory Equipment
Jeep                                                      no.         -      1      -      -      1 16,200       -  16.2       -      -  16.2
+10 hp. Boat Engines                                      no.         -      I      1      -      2  2,160       -   2.2   2.2        -   4.3
Bat detector                                              no.         1      -      -      -      1    324   0.3        -      -      - O. 3
Reptile Traps                                             no.        10     10     10      -    30      5   0.5   0.5   0.5          -    1.6
Mammel Traps                                              no.        10     10    10       -    30       54   0.5   0.5   0.5         -   1.6
Trap back packs                                           no.         2      -      -      -      2      54   O.!       -      -      -   0.1
Day Binoculars                                            no.         1      1      -      -      2    216   0.2   0.2         -      -   0.4
Night Binoculars                                          no.         1      -      -      -      1    540   0.5        -      -      -    0.5
Rechargeable lights                                       no.         2      2      -      -      4   32.4   0.1   0.1         _           0.1
Batteries and Charges                                     no.         1      -      -      -      1    108   0.1       -      _           0.1
Camera and Accessories                                    no.         1      -      -      -      1    540   0.5        -      -      -   0.5
Film and Tapes                                            no.         1      1      1      1      4    216   0.2    0.2   0.2   0.2    0.9
Video Camera                                              no.         -      1      -      -      1    540       -   D.5       -      -   0.5
Stereo microscopeas                                       no.         1      -      -      -      1    756   0.8        -      -      -   0.8
Herbarium shelves                                         no.         1      2      -      -      3    108   0.1   0.2         -      -   0.3
Bird ringing sets                                         no.         1      -      -      -      1    864   0.9        -      -      -   0.9
Fish nets set                                             no.         1      -      -      -      1    324   0.3        -      -      -   0.3
Waterproof clothing                                       no.         4      2      2      -      8    216   0.9    0.4   0.4         -   1.7
Tents  ( four people)                                     no.         2      2      -      -      4    216   0.4    0.4        -      -   0.9
Sleeping bags                                             no.         3      2      -      -      5    108   0.3    0.2        -      -   0.5
Gps                                                       'no.        1      -      -      -      1    540   0.    _-          -      - 0.5
Subtotal Survey / Inventory Equipment                                                                             7.4  21.8    3.9    0.2  33.3
2. Data Management / CIS
Computer and Monitor                                      no.         -      1      -      -      1  2,160       -   2.2       -      -   2.2
GIS softwate                                              no.         -      1      -      -      1  1, 00       -   1.1       -      -   1.1
Printer and Plotter                                       no.         -      1      -      -      1  3, 240      -   3.2       -      - 3.2
Aerial Photography                                        no.         -      1      -      -      1  5,400       -   5.4       -      -   5.4
Stereoacopes - mirror                                     no.         -      t      -      -      1  2, 700      -   2.7       -      -   2.7
Digitizer                                                 no.         -      1      -      -      1  2, 700      -   2.7       -      -   2.7
Ce - RON date input                                       no.         -      1      -      -      1  2, 700      -   2.7       -      -   2.7
Satelite Imagery                                          no.         -      1      -      -      1  1,620       -   1.6       -      -   1.6
Subtotal Data Management / GIS                                                                                      -  21.6        -      -  21.6
3. Management Plans and Maps
Wildlife Production                                     amount        1      -      -      -      1    540   0.5        -      -      -   0.5
Agriculture Production                                  amount        -      1      -      -      1    540       -   0.5       -      -   O 5
Subtotal Management Plane and Maps                                                                                0.5   0.5       -      -   1.1
T. Training - GIS and Veg. happing
Ticket /a                                                 no.        2      2       2      2      8  1,080   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2    8.6
Per diem                                                amount       2      2      2      2      a    540   1.1    1.1   1.1    1.1    4.3
Subtotal Training - GIJ and Veg. Mapping                                                                          3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   13.0
5. Traininq - Bird Monitoring and Management
Ticket ( one specialist) /b                               no.        -      1      -       -      1  1080       -   1.1        -      -    1.1
Per diem                                                amount       -      3      -      -      3    540       -   1.6       -       -   1.6
Travel and Per diem ( local)                            amount       -       1      -      -      1    540       -   0.5       -      -   0.5
Local Fee                                               amount       -      1      -      -      1    108       -   0.1       -       - 0.1
Foreign Specialist Fee                                  amount       -       1     -       _      1  5, 400      -   5 .4      -      -    5.4
Subtotal Training - Bird Monitoring and Management                                                                  -   8.7       -      -   8.7
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                   11.2  55.9   7.1   3.5  77.7
3I. Recurrent Conte
A. Fuel for one jeep (2500L/veh/yr)                              OOOL        1      1      1      1      4    300   0.3   0.3   0.3    0.3    1.2
B. Fuel for two boats (lSOOcc/boat/yr)                          'OOOL        2      2      2      2      8    300   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   2.4
C. Helicopter rental (including fuel) /c                        hours      60     60     60      60   240    100   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0  24.0
D. Equipment Maintenance                                        'OOOL                                                0.4    1.5   1.7    1.7   S.1
Total Recurrent Cost.                                                                                                     7.3   8.4    8.6   8.6  32.7
total                                                                                                                     18.5  64.3  15.7  12.0 110.4
  2 visits a year for 2 weeks for 4 years.
\b For 2 weeks in year 1995.
\c 6 hrs. a day for 10 days a year at $100 per hour.
Fri Feb 18 16:15:07 1994
1-1 Monitoring and Database Management



Annex 1
- 52-                                                   Page 8 of 12
Ukraine
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Table 4  Pilot Wetland Restoration
Detailed Costs
Unit
Quantities               Cost        Base Cost MU$ S000)
Unit    1994   1995  1996  1997  Total  (US$)  1994  1995  1996  1997  Total
I. Investment Cost.
A. Civil Works
1. BZ Plavnie
Vilkovo - Prim, culvert cleaning  each              1      -      -      -      1    540   0.5        -       -     -   0.5
Welding of gates                       each          1      -     -      -      1  1,080   1.1         -      -      -   1.1
Cleaning Sasyk Canal Syphon            each         1      -      -      -      1 10,800  10.8        -      -      -  10.8
Subtotal 9Z Plavnie                                                                            12.4       -      -      -  12.4
2. LazarkL  Kut
Channel Blocking                       '000m        -      3      -      -      3  4,752       -  14.3       -      -  14.3
3. Vilkovo  Canals
Hand Excavation                        '000m       10     35      -      -    45    540   5.4  18.9          -      -  24.3
Cutter Dredge                          '000m        -    20       -      -    20  2,700        -  54.0       -      -  54.0
Clamshell Dredge                       'DOOm        -      -    20       -    20  4,752        -      -  95.0       -  95.0
Subtotal Vilkovo  Cania a                                                                       5.4  72.9  95.0         - 173.3
Subtotal Civil Works                                                                               17.8  87.2  95,0        - 200.0
B. Goods
1. Water Analysis Kit                      aech        2       -      -      -     2  3,240    6.5        -      -      -   6.5
2. Refill Packages                         Ahch       20       -    20       -    40     540  10.8        -  10.8       -  21.6
3. Humidity Meter                          each        2       -      -     -      2    756   I.5         -      -      -   1.5
4. Water Sampling Kit                     each          2      -      -      -     2    540    1.1        -      -      -   1.1
5. Van Veen grab dredge                   each          I      -      -     -       1  1,944    1.9       -      -      -   1.9
6. Subsurface grab Sampler                each         2       -      -     -      2  1,080   2.2         -      -      -   2.2
7. Dissolved Oxygen Meter                  each         2      -      -     -      2  1,512   3.0         -      -      -   3.0
B. Ph Meter                               each         2       -     -      -      2    432   0 .9        -      -      -   0.9
9. Turbidity Moter                        each         2       -     -      -      2    756   1.5         -      -      -   1.5
10. Bomb Sampler                           each         1     -      -      -      1    648   0.6         -      -      -   0.6
11.  La Motte Sampler                     each         I       -      -     -      1    216   0 .2        -      -      -   0.2
12. Current Meter                           set         1     -       -     -      1  4,320   4.3         -      -      -   4.3
13. Staff gauges                          each        10      -      -      -    10   32 .4   0 .3        -      -      -   0. 3
14. Level, tripod, rod                    each         I      -      -      -      1  3,240   3 .2        -      -      -   3. 2
15. 10 Hp Motor                           each         1      -      -      -      1  4,320   4.3         -     -       -   4. 3
16. Miscellaneous Supplies                each         1      -      -      -      1  3,240   3 .2       -       -      - 3.2
Subtotal Goods                                                                                     45.7      -  10.8       -  56.5
C. Toehnical Assintance
1. Water Quality Monitoring               mets         4      6      6      6    22    200   0. 8   1.2   1.2   1.2   t 4
2. Ostov Yormakov Study                   mats         -      5      5      -    10    200        -   1.0   1.0         -   2.0
3. Loca Travel                           lumpsum       -      I      1      -      2    300       -   0 .3   0 .3       -   0.6
4. Foreign Travel                          day         -    10    10        -    20    300        -   3 .0   3 .0       -   6.0
5. Tickets                                each         -       1     1      -      2  1,000       -   1.0   1.0         -   2.0
6. Fish Kolhoz Study                      mats         3      5      5      -    13    200    0.6   1.0   1.0           -   2.6
7. Local travel                          lumpsum       -      2      1      -      3    300       -   0.6   0 .3        -   0.9
8. Foreign travel                          day         -    20    10        -    30      300      -   6.0   3 .0       -   9. 0
9. Tickets                                each         I      1      -      -      2  3,000    3 .0   3.0       -      -   6.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                      44  T17.1  10.8   1.2  33.5
Total Investment Costs                                                                                 67.9 104 .3 116.6   1.2 290 .0
1I. Recurrent Costs
A. Motor                                     lumpsuz    0.5   0.5   0.5   0 .5         2    300    0 .2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.6
B. Equipment Maintenance                     lumpsuM                                                2 .3   2.3   2. 8   2.8  10.2
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                   2.4   2.4   3 .0   3.0  10.8
Total                                                                                                   70.3 106.7 119.6   t.2 300. 8
Fri Feb 18 16t15:15 1994
1-1 Pilot Wetland Restoration



-  53   -                                               Annex  1
Ukraine                                                     Page         9  of  12
Danube Delta Biodiv-rsity Project
Table 5. Public Aw,renoes
Detailed Costs
Unit
Quantities               Cost       Bass Cost (USS '000)
Unit   1994  1995  1996  1997  Total (USS)  1991  1995  1996  3997  Total
I. Investennt Costs
A. Technical Aasistance
1. WWF education officer                   mints       -      -     -      -      -              -      -     -      -      -
2. Airpassage                            ticket        2      2      2     2      B  1,000   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   8.0
3. Board and lodging allawances           month        1      1      1     1      4    SOO   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   2.0
subtotal Technimal Assistance                                                                     2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5  10.0
B. manage- nt Plan Production
1. Printing Maps etc.                    amount        -      1     -      -      1  1,000       -   1.0      -      -   1.0
C. DPA Equipment
1. Video Camera                             no.        -      1     -      -      1  1,000       -   1.0      -      -   1.0
2. Recorder                                 no.        -      1     -      -      1    500       -   0.5      -      -   0.5
3. Television                               no.        -      1     -      -      1    500       -   0.5      -      -   O 5
4. Slide Projector/ Screen                  no.        -      1     -      -      1    500       -   0.5      -      -   0.5
S. Desk Computer                            no.        -      1     -      -      1  3,000       -   3.0      -      -   3.0
6. Laser Printer                            no.        -      1     -      -      1  1,500       -   1.5      -      -   1.5
7. Photocopier                              no.        -      1     -      -      1  2,500       -   2.5      -      -   2.5
8. Tapes end films                          no.        2     2      -      -      4  1.000   2. 0   2.0       -      -   4.0
9. Camera                                   no.        3     -      -      -      3    250   0.8        -     -      -   0.8
10. Binoculars                              no.        S     S      -      -    10    100   O.S   0.5         -      -   1.0
11. Posters                               year         1     1      1      1      4    200   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.8
12. Guide Books                           year         1      1     1      1      4    300   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   1.2
13. Posters and Brochures                 year         1     1      1      1      4    300   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   1.2
14. Exhibition tables                      no.         -     1      -      -      1  1,000       -   1.0      -      -   1.0
15. Herbarium Sets                        year         -     -      1      -      1    400       -     -   0.4       -   0.4
16. Camping gear (20 people)               no.         -     I      -      -      1  2,000       -   2.0      -      -   2.0
17. One Excursion Boat (25 Hp)             no.         1     -      -      -      1 10,000  10.0       -      -      -  10.0
18. Jeep                                   no          1     -      -      -      1 15, O0  15.0       -      -      -  15.0
subtotal DPA Equipment                                                                           29.1  15.8   1.2   0.8  46.8
D. NCO Equipment (NHft& ECO Club)
1. Jeep                                    no.         1     -      -      -      1 15,O0O   15.0      -      -      -  15.0
2. 2 Engines                               no.         2     -      -      -      2  8, 000  16.0      -      -      -  16.0
3. Computer and Printer                    no.        2      -      -      -      2  1,000   2.0       -      -      -   2.0
4. 2 Fax/Phone                             no.         2     -      -      -      2    500   1.0       -      -      -   1.0
5. 1 Video Set                             no.         1     -      -      -      1  2,000   2.0       -      -      -   2.0
6. Office Supplies                       amount        1     1      1      -      3    400   0.    0.4   0.          -   1.2
7. Camping gear                            no.         1     -      1      -      2    500   0.5       -   0.5       -   1.0
Subtotal NCO Equipment (NPRN& ECU Club)                                                          36.9   0.4   0 .9      -  38.2
E. Odessa too
1. Wetland Exhibit Production            lunpsun                                              2 .0   2.0      -      -   4.0
Total Investment Cots                                                                                70.5  21. 7   4.6   3.3 100.1
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating Costs
1. DPA Fuel (1 jeep  1 boat)              'COOL       4      4      4      4    16    300   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   4. 8
2. HGO fuel (I jeep, 2 boats)              'OOOL       5     5      5      5    20    300   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   6.0
3. NGO paper comm.                       lumpsum       1     1      1      1      4    500   0.5   0 5   0.5   0.5   2.0
4. DPA paper conm.                       lumpsum       1     1      1      1      4    500   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   2.0
5. Equipment Maintenance
DPA                                   lumpsun                                              1.5   2.2   2.3   2.3   8.3
NGO                                   lumpsum                                              1.8   1.9   1.9   1.9   7. 5
Odessa Zoo                            lumpsum                                              0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.7
Subtotal Equipment XMintenance                                                                3.4   4.3   4.4   4.5  16.6
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                 7.1   8.0   8.1   8.2  31.4
r.tal                                                                                                 77.5  29. 7  12.7  11.5 131.4
-ri Feb 18 16:15:23 1994
1-1 Public Awareness



Annex 1
-. 54  -Page 10 of 12
Ukraine
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Table 6. Biosphere Reserve Establishment
Detailed Cost.
Unit
Quantities                 Cost         Base Cost (US5 '000)
Unit    1994   1995   1996   1997  Total (US$)  1994   1995   1996   1997  Total
I. Inves *tent Coat.
A. Ukraine Danube Delta Biosphere
1. Production igat. Plans and Maps
3 core area                                      months       0.2   0 .2    0.3    0.3        1  1,000    0.2    0 .2    0.3   0.3    1.0
Overall Plan                                     months       0.2    0. 2    0.4   0.4    1.2  1,000    0.2    0 .2    0.4    0.4    1.2
Maps                                            mnonths       0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.4           200    0.0    0 .0    0.0    0.0    0.1
Preparation a Implementation
of Ngm't Plans                                  year          1      1       1      1       4  2,000    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    8. 0
Subtotal Production )gpt. Plans and Waps                                                                       2.4    2.4    2.7    2.7  10.3
2. Training
Local Workshop  (3 days) /a                    per year         2      2       2      2       8     500    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    4.0
3. National Seminar
Transport /b                                     amount         -       1      -       1      2  1,200        -    1.2        -    1.2    2.4
Food /c                                          amount         -       1      -       1      2  1,600        -    1.6        -    1.6    3.2
Preparation /d                                   amount         -       1      -       1      2     250       -    0.3        -   0.3    0.5
Subtotal National Seminar                                                                                         -    3.1       -    3.1    6.1
4. Ukxaine/ Rumanian Seminar
Board and Lodging /a                              no.           1              1      -       2  2, 400    2.4        -    2.4       -    4.8
Preparation                                      amount         1      -       1      -       2     250    0.3        -    0.3       -    0.5
Airline  Tickets /f                              amount         1         -    1      _       2   1,500    1.5        -    1.5            3.0
Subtotal Ukraine/ Rumanian Seminar                                                                             4 .2       -   4.2        -    S. 3
5. International Seminar
Airline Tickets /g                               amount         -      -       -      1       1 10,000        -       -       -  10.0  10.0
food /h                                         amount          -      -       -      1       1  3,800        -       -      -    3 .8    3 8
Preparation                                      amount         -      -       -      1       1  1,000        -       -       -    1.0    1.0
Subtotal International Seminar                                                                                    -       -      -  14.8  14.8
6. Technical Assistance by WwF
Airline Tickets                                   trip          2      2       2      2           1, 000    2.0    2.0    2 .0   2.0    8.0
Board and Lodging                                amount         2      2       2      2       8     soo    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    4.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance by WWY                                                                           3 .0    3 .0    3. 0   3 .0  12.0
7. Technical Assistance - Local
Legal (Hisc. Expi                               months          1      1       1      1      4      500    0.5    0.5    0 .5   0.5    2. 0
cadastral                                       months          1      1       1      1       4     500    0.5    0.5    0.5   0.5    2. 0
Subtotal Technical Assistance - Local                                                                          1 .0    1 .0    1 .    1 0    4 0
Total                                                                                                                   11.6   10.5   11.9  25.6  59. 5
\a 2 per year for 35 people.
kb 40 people at $30 per person for 4 days.
\c  10 per day for 4 days for 40 participants.
\d $250 per workshop.
\e 30 participants at $20 per person  for 4 days.
\f 30 people at $50 per ticket.
\g 200 participants at $50 per ticket.
\h 50 participants  for 5 days at $15 a day.
Fri Feb 18 16:15:31 1994
1-1 Biosphere Reserve Eatablishment



-  53                                          .tnnex  1
Page 11 of 12
Ukra me
Danube Delta Biodlvansity Project
Table 7. Coor:inetacn with Romania 4 Regional In:tiatives
Detailed Costs
Unit
Ouantities              Cost       Base Tcst (JSS  000)
Unit  1994  1995  1996  1997  Total (USS) 1994  1995  1996  1997  Total
I. Investamnt Costs
A. Tra-nLng
1. Black Sea Workshop
Public MAarene3s  (Turkey)- Kirftre   no.          I      -      -      -      1 1,300   I.0       -      -     _   1.0
Per diem                                 no.       1      -      -      -      1    00   0.7       -      -     -   0. 7
Planning Workshop (Ro=anial- Ticket  no.           I                           I _  -  1   10t   0.1  -   _     -   0.1
Per diem                                 no.       1      -      -      -      1   400   0.4       -      -     -   0.4
Bird Inventory - Russia- Ticket          no.       I      -                    I -   1   100   0.1  -    -      -   0.1
Per diem                                 no.       1      - I           _      1   400   0.4       -     -      -   0.4
Subtota2 Black Sea WorIch.p                                                                  2.7      -      -        -   2.7
2. Coop/ Romania GEF                        no.        1      1     1      1      4   750   0.8   0.8   0.8    0. 8   3.0
3. Regional Activities                      no.        I     1      1      1      4 1,250   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   5.0
Total                                                                                                  4.7   2.0   2.0   2.0  10.7
Fri Feb 18 16:15:37 1994
1-1 Coordination with Romenla i Regional I



Annex)-
Page 12 of 12
Ukr hin:riyPric
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project
Table B. Endoworent Fund Establishment
Detailed Cost.
Unit
Quantities               Cost       Base Cost (US$ '000)
Unit  1994  1995  1996  1997  Total (USS)  1994  1995   1996  1997  Total
I Invveetant Costa
A. Preparation of Trust Fund
1. Foreign Legal Advisor  month          -      -  0.75      -  0.75 16,D00        -      -  12.0       -  12.0
2. Local Legal Advisor    month          -      -  0.75       -  0.75    200       _      -   022       -   0. 2
Total                                                                                        - 1912.2             -  12.2
Fri Feb 18 16:15:43 1994



-57 -ANNEx 2
Page 1 of 2
UKRAINE
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
Implementation Plan
Explanation of Numbered Critical Events
Number       Event and Date                            Explanation
1       Mid term review, 5.31.96         Eliminate unsuccessful components from project
2       Obtain building site, 12.31.94   If not, drop visitor center construction from
project and reduce costs of other components
for lack of storage space
3       New wardens appointed,           If not, reduce equipment associated with wardens
12.31.94 and 12.31.95
4       Warden station construction,     If not yet started, reduce number
6.30.95
5       OB motors procurement,12.31.95  If not started, reduce numbers
6       Flora and fauna maps             If not first maps completed, reduce component
production, 12.31.95
7       Godwodkhos gate operator         If not, delay rest of SZ Plavnie component
contracted to weld gates, 12.31.94
8       Ostrov Yermakov study, 12.31.95 If not started, drop from project
9       Fish kolkoz study, 12.31.95      If not started, set time limit for start
10       Produce management maps,         If no first maps available, set time limit for start
12.31.95
11       Produce management plan,         If no plan available, set time limit to produce it
12.31.95
12       Legal advisor contracted, 12.31.95 If not yet done, drop component
m:\gen\1aeyend\workplan.ukr



-       -8                                           ANNEX  2
Page 2 of 2
Ukraine
Danube oelta Biodiversity Project
Implementation Plan
Component and Activity                    1994       1995       1996      1997       1995
Mid-Term Review                        1     2   1      2   1     2   1      2   1      2
Prepare TOR for Mid-term Review
*Mid-term Review                                                                  11
1. Strengthening of Danube Plaving Authority
* Obtain Building Site ior Visitor Center                    -(2)
Staff Housing Renovation
Goods Purchase
Vehicle 121, Motorcycle 120). Bicycle 120) Purchase
Technical Advisor
Procurement Advisor
English Training
Wetland Study Tour
Wetland Management Course
2. Werden Strengthening                                                     1
* New Warden Appointments                                        6 131     1X
*  Warden Station Construction                                            141
*  Vehicle (1l. O-B motor (4)1 Purchase                           |        1511
Overseas Study Tour                                          _-
Goods Purchase
Protection Course                                             _         - _
Foundation Course In Romania                                  _                     _      
Pubiic Awareness Course                                       _          _         _
Wildlife Managemont Course                                    _          _         _
3. Monitoring end Database Management
Goods Purchase
Vehicle 11l, Boats 12) Purchase
Data Management/GIS                                                                   _
'Flore end Fauna Maps Production                                           161
Training GIS and Veoetation Mapping
Training Bird Monitoring
4. Pilot Wetland Restoration
Stansovsko-Zhebranskie Plavnie:
Vilkovo-Primorskoye Culvert Cleaning
*Wolding of Gatos                                              (71
Cleaning Sesyk Canal Siphon
Lazarkin Kut Channel Blocking
Vilkovo Town Channels:
Hand Excavation
Cutter Dredging
Clemshell Dredging
Equipment Purchase
* Ostrow Yermekov Study
* Fish Koikhoz Study                                                         191-
Water Quality Monitoring
S. Public Awareness
WWF Education Officer
Maps and Brochure Printing
Goods Purchase
Vehicle 12i, Boat I1ll 0-8 motors 121 Purchase
6. Biosphere Reserve Establishment                                 I
* Produce Management Maps                                                 1101-
Produce Management Plans                                               (    1     1    1
Local Workshops                                             __
National Seminar
Ukraine/Rormania Seminar
Technical Assistance by WWF
International Seminar
* Legal Advisor                                                          (121
7. Coordination, Regional
Black Sea Workshops (3)
Cooperation with Romania                                       _
* Criticral Event



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 14
UKRAINE
DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.      The project  funds  substantial  technical  assistance,  mostly  on  a short-
term basis, and all with a strong training role. The WWT technical assistance
is provided free, from WWF resources, the project funding only the logistics
costs. The following table indicates technical assistance to be provided
through the course of the project draft terms-of-reference follow:
Technical Assistance
(Staffweeks)
Expertise                    Local/Expatriate             Yearl    Year2    Year3   Year4    Total
Resident Advisor                  expatriate                 8       8        4        4         12
Procurement Advisor               local                     4        -        -        -          4
English Trainer                   local                      6       6        6        6        (100)
Wetland Planning trainers         expatriate                 2       -        2        -           4
Protection Trainer                expatriate                2                                     2
Protection Trainers (2)           expatriate                4        4        4       4          (16)
Ornithologist (IWRB)              expatriate                 -       3        -        -           3
Ornithologist (Melitipole)        local                      2       3        -        -          (2)
GIS/data management (WWF)         expatriate                 4       4        4        4         16
Botanist/mapper (WWF)             expatriate                4        4        4        4          16
Public Awareness (WWF)            expatriate                4        4        4       4          16
Environmental Lawyer              local                     4        4        4        4         (16)
Cadastral Expert                  local                     4        4        4        4         (16)
Protected Area Expert (WWF)       expatriate                4        4        4       4          16
Legal/Financial Expert            expatriate                 -       -        3        -          3
Legal/Financial Expert            local                                       3        -          (3)
Bookkeeper                          local                    52      52       52       52       (208)
Scientific Advisory Committee       local                   12       12       12       12       (48)
Annual audit                        local                    -       1        1        1          (3)
Admin. & technical support          local                    52      52       52       52       (208)
Fish Kolkhoz study                  local                   12       20       20       -         (42)
Ostrov Yermakov Study               local                    -       20       20       -         (40)
Total expatriate           110
(Total local)             (699)
Note:  Of the 127 weeks of expatriate TA, 80 are provided as a donation from WWF,
the project paying only the transport and accommodation costs.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR DPA STRENGTHENING
RESIDENT ADVISOR POSITION
Qualifications and Experience
2.      The  Resident  Advisor  should  have  qualifications  (educational  training)
and work experience in protected area management, in particular with temperate
delta ecosystems, including experience with institutional strengthening,
flora/fauna monitoring, public awareness needs of wetland protected areas.
The advisor must be comfortable with both process/planning oriented components
and implementing technical, on-site activities. They should have specific



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 14
experience in Ukraine with the Danube Delta and familiarity with the relevant
local and national institutions (governmental and non-governmental) in the
region.
Scope of Work
3.    The contractor will work primarily with the MEP and DPA, but also
coordinate with other national and international organizations in providing
overall technical assistance and particular help with implementing the
following project components:
-     Biosphere Reserve Establishment: this includes setting up
conservation activities and preparing management plans in the
Dunaski Plavni and the SZP, as well as assessing other sites for
long-term conservation goals;
-     DP and Warden Strengthening: overall assistance to the training
activities of the DPA and specifically the wardens in patrol,
survey and public awareness activities; and
-     Public Awareness: working with community members and NGOs in the
protected area planning process and environmental education.
4.    The contractor will ensure that all project components are interactive
and compatible and build upon successful practices in other wetland systems
and will be compatible with ongoing work in the parallel GEF Ukraine Danube
Delta Project and throughout the Black Sea through the Black Sea GEF project.
Place/Duration of Duty
5.    The Contractor will work in Ukraine, primarily in Vilkovo, with some
time in Kiev and Odessa as needed. He/she will work Ukraine for 1 month per
year for the first three years of the project.
Terms of Reference for Procurement Advisor
Qualifications and Experience
6.    The consultant should have qualifications and experience in procurement
procedures, including World Bank procurement procedures, for goods, works,
technical assistance and training. Knowledge of contracting procedures in the
Former Soviet Union, together with some knowledge of Russian/Ukrainian, would
be an advantage.
Scope of Work
7.    He would assist MEP and DPA in preparation of tender documents,
including technical specifications for goods and works to be procured under
the project. He would advise on local and international tendering procedures
and on appropriate packages for procurement of goods.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 14
Location
8.    He would spend about half of his assignment in VIlkovo and half in Kiev.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR DPA STRENGTHENING
ENGLISH TRAINER POSITION
Qualifications and Experience
9.    The English Trainer should have qualifications (educational training)
and work experience in teaching English as a second language for Ukrainian
residents. They should also have experience with setting up a language lab,
e.g. as in a university setting, designing formal and intense courses as well
as ongoing, continuing education activities.
Scope of Work
10.   The contractor will primarily with the DPA, but also other community
leaders and MEP as necessary in instructing a formal training program in
English language. The courses are being taught so that the Ukrainians can
interact with foreign visitors and colleagues in the implementation of the
project. The Trainer will be responsible for setting up the English Lab,
arranging the course structure, overseeing the lab equipment in conjunction
with the DPA procurement staff, providing courses that are intense for 6 weeks
at a time, but also arrangements and curriculum for students to continue at
their own pace after the formal courses.
Place/Duration of Duty
11.   The Contractor will work in Ukraine, primarily in Vilkovo, with some
time in Kiev and Odessa as needed. He/she will work Ukraine for 6 weeks each
year of the project.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR DPA STRENGTHENING
WETLAND MANAGEMENT COURSE
(IWRB possibly)
Qualifications and Experience
12.   The course trainers and host organization should have qualifications
(educational training) and work experience in protected area management, in
particular with temperate delta ecosystems, including experience with
institutional strengthening, protected area legislation, flora/fauna
monitoring for ecosystems, habitats and species, wetland restoration, public
awareness needs of wetland protected areas. The trainers must be comfortable
with both process/planning oriented components and implementing technical, on-
site activities in wetland conservation areas. They should have specific
experience in Ukraine with the Danube Delta and familiarity with the relevant



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 14
local and national institutions (governmental and non-governmental) in the
region.
Scope of Work
13.   The contractor will primarily direct the course for the DPA, but also
coordinate with other national and international organizations in providing
overall technical assistance. The course will focus on waterfowl management,
wetland restoration and legislative aspects of wetland restoration primarily.
But the contractor should be familiar with the overall GEF project goals and
design the course to best fit these needs. While there will be some classroom
and lecture components, the emphasis should be on field and site-based
activities.
14.   The contractor will ensure the course is multi-disciplinary and builds
upon successful practices in other wetland systems and will be compatible with
ongoing work in the parallel GEF Romania Danube Delta Project and throughout
the Black Sea through the Black Sea GEF project.
Place/Duration of Duty
15.   The Contractor will work in Ukraine in Vilkovo for a two-week period
during the first and third years of the project.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR DPA STRENGTHENING
OVERSEAS WETLAND STUDY TOUR
Qualifications and Experience
16.   The tour trainers and host organization should have qualifications
(educational training) and work experience in protected area management, in
particular with temperate delta ecosystems, including experience with
institutional strengthening, protected area legislation, flora/fauna
monitoring for ecosystems, habitats and species, wetland restoration, public
awareness needs of wetland protected areas. The host area(s) should provide
examples of different wetland management strategies focusing on nature
protection and ecosystem restoration, but with techniques that are applicable
to the Ukraine Danube Delta. The host must be comfortable with both
process/planning oriented components and implementing technical, on-site
activities in wetland conservation areas. They should have specific
experience in Ukraine with the Danube Delta and familiarity with the relevant
local and national institutions (governmental and non-governmental) in the
region.
Scope of Work
17.   The contractor will primarily direct the study tour for 5 lead DPA
staff. The tour will focus on waterfowl management, wetland restoration and
legislative aspects of wetland restoration primarily. But the contractor
should be familiar with the overall GEF project goals and design the tour to



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 14
best fit these needs. While there will be some classroom and lecture
components, the emphasis should be on field and site-based activities. The
host will be expected to visit Ukraine before the DPA study to tour in order
to better understand the needs of the DPA and Danube Delta conservation
situation.
18.   The contractor will ensure the tour is multi-disciplinary and builds
upon successful practices in other wetland systems and will be compatible with
ongoing work in the parallel GEF Romania Danube Delta Project and throughout
the Black Sea through the Black Sea GEF project.
Place/Duration of Duty
19.   The Contractor will first visit Vilkovo for a one week period during the
first and the project. The Ukrainians will then visit the overseas study
area(s) for a three week period during the first year of the project, during
which time the host will accompany them.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR WARDEN STRENGTHENING
OVERSEAS STUDY TOUR FOR CHIEF WARDEN IN PROTECTION TECHNIOUES
Qualifications and Experience
20.   The trainers and host organization should have qualifications
(educational training) and work experience in protected area management, in
particular with temperate delta ecosystems, including experience with
institutional strengthening, protected area legislation, law enforcement
techniques for different species, habitats (especially waterfowl management),
recreational, agricultural, hydrological and forestry activities, as well as
public awareness needs of wetland protected areas. The host area(s) should
provide a strong and well-established wetland protected area, that has an
effective staff, positive relations with governmental and non-governmental
counterparts and daily activities that address different wetland protection
issues strategies focusing on nature protection but with techniques that are
applicable to the Romanian Danube Delta.   They should have specific on-site
experience in Romania with the Danube Delta and familiarity with the relevant
local and national institutions (governmental and non-governmental) in the
region.
Scope of Work
21.   The contractor will primarily direct the overseas study tour experience
for Chief Warden of the DPA. The internships will provide hands-on experience
with focus on nature protection, law enforcement, communication skills, public
relations, waterfowl management, and administration of the Warden staffs. But
the contractor should be familiar with the overall GEF project goals and
design the tour to best fit these needs. While there will be some classroom
and lecture components, the emphasis should be on field and site-based
activities.



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 14
22.   The contractor will ensure the internship is builds upon successful
practices in the host park and will offer training opportunities that are also
compatible with ongoing work in the parallel GEF Ukraine Danube Delta Project
and throughout the Black Sea through the Black Sea GEF project. The
contractor also needs to make translation arrangements.
Place/Duration of Duty
23.   The Ukrainian will visit the overseas site for two weeks during the
first year of the project.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR WARDEN STRENGTHENING
WARDEN PROTECTION COURSE (UKRAINE GAME UNIVERSITIES)
Qualifications and Experience
24.   The trainers and should have qualifications (educational training) and
work experience in protected area management, in particular with temperate
delta ecosystems, including experience with institutional strengthening,
protected area legislation, law enforcement techniques for different species,
habitats (especially waterfowl management), recreational, agricultural,
hydrological and forestry activities, as well as public awareness needs of
wetland protected areas.   They should have experience in teaching and
applying these techniques in field situations. They should have specific on-
site experience in Romania with the Danube Delta and familiarity with the
relevant local and national institutions (governmental and non-governmental)
in the region.
Scope of Work
25.   The contractor will primarily design and direct the Warden Protection
Course.  The course will provide hands-on experience with focus on nature
protection, law enforcement, communication skills, public relations, waterfowl
management, and administration of the Warden staffs.  But the contractor
should be familiar with the overall GEF project goals and design the tour to
best fit these needs.  While there will be some classroom and lecture
components, the emphasis should be on field and site-based activities. The
more senior wardens will in time work with the trainers so they can become
trainers themselves.
26.   The contractor will ensure the course builds upon successful practices
in the host park and will offer training opportunities that are also
compatible with ongoing work in the parallel GEF Romania Danube Delta Project
and throughout the Black Sea through the Black Sea GEF project.
Place/Duration of Duty
27.   The Ukrainian trainers will work for two weeks each year in the delta
region to train the wardens.



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 14
TA FOR BIRD MONITORING (IWRB)
Qualifications and Experience
28.   IWRB (hereafter Contractor) should have qualifications (educational
training) and work experience in bird inventorying and monitoring techniques
that are appropriate with temperate delta ecosystems. They should have
specific experience in Romania with the Danube Delta and familiarity with the
relevant local and national institutions (governmental and non-governmental).
Scope of Work
29.   The contractor will work with the DPA and local NGOs in enhancing the
existing activities related to bird monitoring and wetland management for the
protection of species and habitats. They will set up a course, on-site to
standardize bird monitoring techniques between the DPA staff and other bird
groups, they will teach the DPA Wetland team to be trainers themselves. They
will work closely with Ukrainian experts from Melitipole to ensure techniques
are similar for the Black Sea region.   They will coordinate with WWF on GIS
applications in Ukraine and Birdlife in Romania for parallel monitoring
activities. They will ensure that the monitoring activities build upon
successful practices in the Mediterranean and will be compatible with ongoing
work throughout the Black Sea through the Black Sea GEF project.
Place/Duration of Duty
30.   The Contractor will work throughout the Danube Delta, based in Vilkovo
for two weeks during year one of the project.
TA FOR BIRD MONITORING (MELITIPOLE SCIENTIST)
Qualifications and Experience
31.   Melitipole (hereafter Contractor) should have qualifications
(educational training) and work experience in bird inventorying and monitoring
techniques that are appropriate with temperate delta ecosystems. They should
have specific experience in Ukraine with the Danube Delta and familiarity with
the relevant local and national institutions (governmental and non-
governmental).
Scope of Work
32.   The local contractor will work with the DPA and local NGOs in enhancing
the existing activities related to bird monitoring and wetland management for
the protection of species and habitats. They will work with the IWRB to set
up a course, on-site to standardize bird monitoring techniques between the DPA
staff and other bird groups, they will teach the DPA Wetland team to be
trainers themselves. They will work closely with IWRB to ensure techniques
are similar for the Black Sea region.   They will coordinate with WWF on GIS
applications in Ukraine and BirdLIfe in Romania for parallel monitoring



ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 14
activities. They will ensure that the monitoring activities build upon
successful activities in the region and will be compatible with ongoing work
throughout the Black Sea through the Black Sea GEF project.
Place/Duration of Duty
33.   The Contractor will work throughout the Danube Delta, based in Vilkovo
for two weeks during year one of the project.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR GIS/DATA MANAGEMENT (WWF-GERMANY)
Qualifications and Experience
34.   WWF-Germany (hereafter, Contractor) should have qualifications
(educational training) and work experience in GIS techniques and data
management applications that are appropriate with temperate delta ecosystems.
They should have specific experience in Ukraine with the Danube Delta and
familiarity with the relevant local and national institutions (governmental
and non-governmental).
Scope of Work
35.   The contractor will work primarily with the DPA in Vilkovo to develop a
basic data management capacity through GIS tools for the guidance and
compilation of monitoring data (for all basic flora and fauna in the delta)
into GIS formats that will be useful for the production of maps and other
products necessary for the production of management plans. They will
contribute to the development of the resource-specific management plans (e.g.
waterfowl, game, tourism) in data management. They should coordinate
activities with the UMass and Flevoland teams in the Romania project and the
Romanian colleagues to exchange ideas and ensure compatibility, to better
manage the delta as one wetland complex. They will help with the
communication between the government and the NGOs as well as integrating the
data management/GIS activities with others, especially the flora/fauna
monitoring and the biosphere reserve establishment components. They will help
to ensure these aspects are compatible with other components of the GEF
project and build upon successful practices elsewhere and will be compatible
with ongoing work throughout the Black Sea through the Black Sea GEF project.
Place/Duration of Duty
36.   The Contractor will work throughout the Danube Delta, based in Vilkovo
for two weeks, two times per year, for the total project period of 4 years,
1994-1997. The Contractor will contribute the staff time and the GEF project
will cover all travel and related board/lodging expenses during this period.



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 14
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR VEGETATION MAPPING (WWF-GERMANY)
Qualifications and Experience
37.   WWF-Germany (hereafter, Contractor) should have qualifications
(educational training) and work experience in GIS vegetation mapping
techniques to study biodiversity and ecological succession that are
appropriate with temperate delta ecosystems. They should have specific
experience in Ukraine with the Danube Delta and familiarity with the relevant
local and national institutions (governmental and non-governmental).
Scope of Work
38.   The contractor will work primarily with the Wetland Research team of the
DPA in Vilkovo to develop vegetation monitoring procedures that will provide
basic data on habitat changes and on ecosystem dynamics. Impacts of
interventions (hydrological, protected area strategies - fences, grazing
restrictions) and rehabilitation activities will be assessed. The primary
project areas of Dunaski Plavni, SZP and the Yermakov Island will be the key
sites to be mapped and measured, but procedures should be such that they can
be extended to other areas. This activity needs to tie in closely with water
quality studies and the data management/GIS activities, as well as provide a
framework for other flora/fauna monitoring activities.
39.   The contractor will help with the communication between the government
and the NGOs as well as integrating the activities with others, especially the
data management and the biosphere reserve establishment components. They will
help to ensure these aspects are compatible with other components of the GEF
project and build upon successful practices elsewhere and will be compatible
with ongoing work throughout the Black Sea through the Black Sea GEF project.
Place/Duration of Duty
40.   The Contractor will work throughout the Danube Delta, based in Vilkovo
for two weeks, two times per year, for the total project period of 4 years,
1994-1997. The Contractor will contribute the staff time and the GEF project
will cover all travel and related board/lodging expenses during this period.
STENTSOVSKO-ZHEBRIJANSKIE PLAVNI RECLAMATION
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ASSISTANCE
Duration
41.   An Ukrainian team consisting of one hydrologist and one water chemist
should visit the S-ZP during May and September of year one of the project, and
subsequently in September of the two following years. The total number of
visits (for the team of two persons) is five. Each visit will have a duration
of 12 days, of which 10 in Vilkovo/Odessa, and two connecting days.



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 14
Scope of Work
42.   The hvdrologist  should form an opinion about the various proposals
submitted for correction of the hydraulic regime in the S-ZP. The particular
correction required is to reestablish a regime of water circulation
(continuous or seasonal) under conditions of minimal head differentials. The
latter leads to a need for large cross sections of proposed hydraulic
structures adding considerably to their cost. Low cost solutions should be
investigated. Before project execution, the hydrologist will check on the
proper location of the staff gauges and their reading and recording
arrangements.
43.   The water chemist will review prior water analyses and form an opinion
about their reliability. He will execute spot water quality analyses with a
portable test kit and monitor the "before and after" change in water quality.
He will also locate sources of concentrated agricultural pollution and test
their quality. These sources supposedly are small streams at the northern
boundary of the Stentsovsko Plavni. He will suggest, together with the
hydrologist, methods of reducing, intercepting or bypassing the polluted
discharge.
44.   During their first visit, the WWF team should contact the
Hydrometeorological Institute in Odessa, in particular Dr. Peli Kulakova, who
has studied the area and is proposing a solution to the problems.
45.   The team should assist the Director of the Dunavski plavni in drafting a
contract for local engineering services, first for a program of installation
of staffgauges and their observation during the first year of the project and
of location, frequency and type of water analysis to be taken.
Qualifications
46.   Both the hydrologist and the water quality engineer should have some
experience in wetland restoration. They should be preferably young persons in
view of the adverse living conditions prevailing in the project area.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR PUBLIC AWARENESS (WWF-GERMANY)
Qualifications and Experience
47.   WWF-Germany (hereafter, Contractor) should have qualifications (educational
training) and work experience in public awareness and environmental education
activities to promote nature conservation, specifically birds, and bird-related
tourism that are appropriate with temperate delta ecosystems. They should have
specific experience in Ukraine with the Danube Delta and familiarity with the
relevant local and national institutions (governmental and non-governmental).



ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 14
Scope of Work
48.   The contractor will work primarily with the DPA, the NPRF and the Ecoclub
in Vilkovo to develop public awareness, environmental education and community
development activities related to wetland management for the protection of
species and habitats. They will contribute initially to the development of the
Public Awareness Plan, helping the DPA and the NGOs outline appropriate
activities and targeted audiences.
49.   They will help with the communication between the government and the NGOs
as well as integrating the public awareness activities with others, especially
the interpretive infrastructure, e.g. design of signs, boundary markers and
exhibits. They will contribute directly in helping design and implement a nature
program(s) and teacher training for the area schools with the EcoClub and
lobbying efforts for international awareness with the NPRF.
50.   They will help to ensure these aspects are compatible with other components
of the GEF project, in particular Monitoring and guiding activities by the DPA
staff and exhibit development of the Odessa Zoo.  They will ensure that the
Public Awareness activities build upon successful practices elsewhere and will
be compatible with ongoing work throughout the Black Sea through the Black Sea
GEF project.
Place/Duration of Duty
51.   The Contractor will work throughout the Danube Delta, based in Vilkovo for
two weeks, two times per year, for the total project period of 4 years, 1994-
1997. The Contractor will contribute the staff time and the GEF project will
cover all travel and related board/lodging expenses during this period.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR BIOSPHERE RESERVE ESTABLISHMENT
LOCAL LEGAL ASSISTANCE
Qualifications and Experience
52.   The legal expert should have qualifications (educational training) and work
experience in zoning and regulations as they relate to protected area management,
in particular with temperate delta ecosystems.   They should have specific
experience in Ukraine with the Danube Delta and familiarity with the relevant
local and national institutions (governmental and non-governmental) in the
region.
Scope of Work
53.   The contractor will work primarily with the DPA Biosphere Reserve Group in
assessing the ongoing legislative, legal, zoning, resource use aspects of the
biosphere programme. They will work to help establish legal boundaries initially
for the Dunaski Plavni and the SZP, but make recommendations on legislation and
zoning requirements that would be appropriate for the broader area. They will
assist in the transfer of this information into the management plans, both in



ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 14
visual boundaries on maps and legal language in legislation. They will also
coordinate with the MEP and other national and regional organizations to ensure
that legal status is compatible with existing national and international
legislation. The contractor will examine successful practices in other wetland
systems and look for legislative practices that would be compatible with ongoing
work in the parallel GEF Romania Danube Delta Project and throughout the Black
Sea through the Black Sea GEF project.
Place/Duration of Duty
54.   The Contractor will work primarily in Vilkovo, for one month each year, but
may need to also spend some time in Odessa and Kiev.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR BIOSPHERE RESERVE ESTABLISHMENT
LOCAL CADASTRAL ASSISTANCE
Qualifications and Experience
55.   The cadastral expert should have qualifications (educational training) and
work experience in zoning and regulations as they relate to protected area
management, in particular with temperate delta ecosystems.   They should have
specific experience in Ukraine with the Danube Delta and familiarity with the
relevant local and national institutions (governmental and non-governmental) in
the region.
Scope of Work
56.   The contractor will work primarily with the DPA Biosphere Reserve Group in
implementing the zoning strategies that are developed for the Dunaski Plavni and
the SZP, but make recommendations on requirements that would be appropriate for
the broader area. They will carry out the necessary land-ownership background
work and clearance for establishment of areas in conservation status. They will
work closely with the legal expert and assist in the transfer of this information
into the management plans, both in visual boundaries on maps and legal language
in legislation. They will also coordinate with the MEP and other national and
regional organizations to ensure that cadastral boundaries are compatible with
existing national and international legislation.
Place/Duration of Duty
57.   The Contractor will work primarily in Vilkovo, for one month each year.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR BIOSPHERE RESERVE ESTABLISHMENT (WWF-GERMANY)
Qualifications and Experience
58. WWF-Germany (hereafter, Contractor) shouldhave qualifications (educational
training) and work experience in establishment of protected areas that are
appropriate  with  temperate  delta  ecosystems.    They  should  have  specific



ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 14
experience in Ukraine with the Danube Delta and familiarity with the relevant
local and national institutions (governmental and non-governmental).
Scope of Work
59.   The contractor will work primarily with the Biosphere Reserve Establishment
Team of the DPA in Vilkovo to develop management plans that are both area and
resource specific for the three primary project sites of Dunaski Plavni, SZP and
Yermakov   Island,   taking   into  account   the   following:   socio-economic
considerations, community needs, ecological and hydrological parameters and
nature protection capacity by the DPA and others over time. These plans will be
part of a participatory process to involve the community the establishment of
truly effective nature reserves, nature-tourism areas and areas of ecologically
sound activities through well-designed zoning strategies. They will work closely
with the GIS/Data Management specialist in the production of maps for the plans,
the wardens on the boundary demarkations, the legal and cadastral assistants as
well as the Wetland Research Team of the DPA on ecological inputs. They should
help to move the process of a large, multiple-purpose biosphere reserve forward,
through the implementation of specific on-site activities.
GO.   They will help with the communication between the government and the NGOs
as well as integrating the activities with others, especially the data management
and the biosphere reserve establishment components. They will help to ensure
these aspects are compatible with other components of the GEF project and build
upon successful practices elsewhere and will be compatible with ongoing work
throughout the Black Sea through the Black Sea GEF project.
Place/Duration of Duty
61.   The Contractor will work throughout the Danube Delta, based in Vilkovo for
two weeks, two times per year, for the total project period of 4 years, 1994-
1997. The Contractor will contribute the staff time and the GEF project will
cover all travel and related board/lodging expenses during this period.
LEGAL/FINANCIAL SPECIALISTS FOR ENDOWMENT FUND ESTABLISHMENT
Qualifications and Experience
62.   The expatriate legal/financial specialist would have qualifications in law
and finance. He would have previous experience in financial management and in
the establishment of trust funds for environmental protection. He would have
knowledge of East European legal system. He would focus on:
Scope of Work
63.   He would focus on:  (a) the mandate and objectives of the trust,  the
activities it would finance and its management; (b) financial arrangements for
the trust, including guidance on how the trust's capital should be invested; and
(c) arrangements for establishing the trust and suggestions of potential donors.



ANNEX 3
Page 14 of 14
64.   The output would be legal document, agreed to by all parties, which would
form a sound basis for establishment of such a trust.
65.   The Ukrainian legal/financial expert would also have qualifications in law
and finance. He would have a sound knowledge of Ukrainian financial law.
Place/Duration of Duty
66.   3 weeks in Ukraine.  He would focus on the mechanisms for establishing an
endowment fund and utilizing income from it in the context of the Ukrainian legal
and financial system.
m:\gen\bromhead\danube\ukraine.an3
September 1, 1994



IBRD 25412
Th. b-udaie. -lrs
2920'                             i  i        29030                                           29440                       d nominclhons onc -y
Desant             i9                    o                    k- on,t od no
Noye                                                         fhk  o   -  d. - d no
S  s v k                     ~~~~~~~~~~The Wo-ld 9-k G-op,
4)                r~~~~~~~~~ay jodgntt on tit lepol
'tOto  (  -ny  A-tectoy
Shevchenkovo                                                                                                        oay edo-r-s  t
Primorskoye                       .'    i
/ \ \ . ~~~~STENSOVSKO  
4500,                                                                                                                                       4500'-
ToKi(iyo ,-
a  N    (iFyO  Br,.,o
Ln                             o                                                   Lagarkinkut
'N~~~~~~
45n2Oi                                                                                                  4520'
X
,   0           2           A          6 Miles       
'70                 2   / 4       6 Kilometers                     m
29 20                                   0      29 /3   4                               .o r
UKRAINE  2                                                            .
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                                            29040'
UKRAINE DANUBE DELTA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
PROPOSED ADDITIONAL PROTECTED AREA                        EXISTING PROTECTED AREA                K EUKPAINE
PROJECT ACTIVITIES.                                       EXISTING IRRIGATED AREAS             .                     --            I.
\o.oLDov2X
LAGARKINKUT PROTECTION                          F       EXISTING FISH PONDS            _
LENIN FISH PONDS                                   -- CANALS                               HUNGARY |         ROANIA
) OSTROV YERMAKOV                                           RIVERS '
Mop
STENSOVSKO - ZHEBRIJANSKE PLAVNY                        MARSHY AREAS                    CROATIA
TOWN CANAL RESTORATION                                  SANDY FOREST AREAS                '.>..                BUCHAREST 6   ,_._
DANUBE PLAVNY RESERVE                                    MAIN SETTLEMENTS                 AND      FED REP. K --
AUTHORITY HEADQUARTERS                                                                  HERZEGOVINA   OF            U
- -   ~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES            9.  YUGOSLAVIA         BULGARIA
JANUARY 1994






-
-
-
s 1 - ' -
- \
- |
e | - -
-
-
:



^ 7 sx wsfl t K l-                                                                 v7
~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~S                                                                                                                  '    A{itAS ,
\ ,, ...~~~~~.                       r     .     wb   ..................  -  . 
.. . . . , ~-                                                                                       .   -.                f        ,                  1
S  ,.  - ._o ,1'-2 - :$-'4
-s  s  v  I  _  -\  ,Jr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    -                                                            _-I  -,t  -- 
I'  ....K.    
@~~~~~: Prne on reyce pae



