CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT. NUMBER 289 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 9, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT. NUMBER 289 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 9, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 9, 1972, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "PROSIDA" means Projek Irigasi IDA, an executive body within the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (hereinafter called the
DGWRD) of the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and Electric Power;
(b)   "Groundwater Group" means the Groundwater Group within the
DGWRD;
(c)   "Project Area" means the irrigation areas (daerah) of Banjuwangi,
Bondowoso and Lumadjang included in the Province of East Java;
(d)   "Irrigation System" means any of the irrigation systems included in
Part A of the Project; and
(e)   "Prior Development Credit Agreements" means both the development
credit agreement (Irrigation Rehabilitation Project) dated September 6, 1968 and
the development credit agreement (Third Irrigation Rehabilitation Project) dated
November 6, 1970 between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million five hundred thousand
dollars ($12,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree: (i) the civil
works contracts and construction materials other than steel required for the Project
shall be procured under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement W
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969,
as revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) other goods and services (other
than consultants' services) required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international competition
under the same procedures.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March I and September 1 commencing


﻿March 1, 1982 and ending September 1, 2021, each installment to and including
the installment payable on September 1, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound agricultural, engineering, economic
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall through PROSIDA       and its appropriate local
agencies guide and direct farmers in completing the i.vil works on each tertiary
canal, and on the quaternary canals related thereto, included in the Project and
shall complete the works on each such canal, or cause the works on each such
canal to be completed, within twelve months after the first fifty meters of each
such tertiary canal have been rehabilitated by the Borrower.
(c)   Without limitation  on   the obligations of the Borrower under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds
to cover the budgeted expenditures estimated by PROSIDA to be made during
each quarter for Part A of the Project shall be available to PROSIDA not later
than the fifteenth day of such quarter.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of plans,
designs, specifications and contract documents for the works included in Part A
of the Project, in the construction supervision of such works, in carrying out the
studies included in Parts B and C of the Project, and in implementing the overseas
training programs included in Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   Once the study included in Part B of the Project shall have been
-            completed the Borrower shall discuss with the Association (i) the implementation
of the findings of the consultants and (ii) the disposition of the drilling rigs used
for the study and financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿6
(c)   Promptly after completion of the study of economic benefits included
in Part A 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall consult with the Association on
the conclusions of the study.
Section 3.03. Until the Project shall have been completed:
(a)   The Borrower shall cause PROSIDA to be at all times adequately
staffed with qualified and competent personnel under the supervision of a
competent and experienced General Manager, and, to that end, the Borrower shall
continue to strengthen PROSIDA's staff.
(b)   Before making any new appointment to the position of General
Manager of PROSIDA, the Borrower shall inform the Association of the names,
qualifications and experience of the persons considered for such appointment and
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on the qualifications and experience of such persons.
(c)   Without limitation  on  the obligations of the Borrower under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall employ in PROSIDA for the
Project Area a qualified and competent Sub-project Manager and on a full-time
basis a qualified and competent Deputy Sub-project Manager (Engineering), shall
cause such officials to be vested with all necessary powers and authorities, and
shall charge such Sub-project Manager, and in his absence his Deputy Sub-project
Manager (Engineering), with full responsibility for the rehabilitation and
development, and the operation and maintenance during construction, of the Project
Area.
(d)   The Borrower shall cause PROSIDA to cooperate closely with the
extension services of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture.
(e)   For the purpose of strengthening the extension services in the Project
Area of its Ministry of Agriculture, the Borrower shall within twelve months after
the date of this Agreement employ in the Project Area under a two-year contract
satisfactory to the Association an internationally recruited agricultural extension
advisor acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Part A I of the Project (except for works
on tertiary canals beyond the first fifty meters thereof and on quaternary canals),
the Borrower shall employ qualified and experienced contractors acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿7
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon   their preparation, the   plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction and work schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project, (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c)   PROSIDA's and Groundwater Group's accounts to be kept pursuant
to paragraph (b) of this Section shall be audited each fiscal year, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association, and as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, the Association shall be furnishcd
with certified copies of such accounts for such year as so audited and the report
of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that PROSIDA shall not be engaged
in new rehabilitation projects unless the Association is satisfied that such
engagement would not adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the
projects described in Schedule 2 to the Prior Development Credit Agreements.


﻿8
Section 3.08. (a) Within six months after the date of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its concurrence the detailed programs
for overseas training of selected engineers or geologists included in Parts A 3 and
B 2 of the Project.
(b)   Within six months after the date of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review the detailed programs for training of
irrigation and agricultural field staff included in Part A 3 of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, financial resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause all canals, structures, roads, equipment
and other facilities of any Irrigation System  to be operated and maintained by
the Province of East Java and all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be           .
made from time to time, all in accordance with sound agricultural, engineering
and financial policies and practices, and shall cause such action to be taken as
shall be reasonably required to ensure the economic use of the water made available
by such systems for agricultural development and operations. To that end, the
Borrower shall promptly take or cause to be taken such measures to increase the
effectiveness of the operation and maintenance of the Irrigation Systems as shall
be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Within twelve months after the date of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause an irrigation advisory sub-committee to be established
for each administrative sub-district in the Project Area, for the purpose of advising
and assisting the existing regency irrigation committees in respect of the operation
and maintenance of the Irrigation Systems in such sub-districts. Such
sub-committees shall consist of the head of the sub-district in question, farmers,
irrigation personnel, agricultural personnel, police and ulu-ulu's, and shall function
under satisfactory terms of reference.
(b)   As each of the Irrigation Systems is rehabilitated, the Borrower shall
reinstate or shall cause to be reinstated the Golongan system which consists of
rotating the dry season water supply for irrigation purposes on an annual basis.


﻿9
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall take such action as shall be necessary
to provide adequate agricultural supporting services in each area benefiting from
any of the Irrigation Sysiems, including provision of agricultural extension services
and agricultural inputs (improved seed, fertilizers, pesticides and agricultural credit)
in order to encourage the optimum use of irrigation water for agricultural
production.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause adequate programs to be established and
maintained for monitoring the economic benefits of the Project and determining
the effectiveness of the supporting services provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this Section.
Section 4.05. (a) As each of the Irrigation Systems is rehabilitated, the
Borrower, through the Province of East Java, shall adopt and thereafter maintain
and enforce appropriate legislation for the levy and collection of charges on irrigable
agricultural land served by such Irrigation System, or on the users of such land,
and shall commence to collect such charges within one year after each such system
is rehabilitated. Within two years after each such Irrigation System is rehabilitated
such charges shall have reached, and thereafter such charges shall be maintained
at, levels adequate to provide the Province of East Java with revenues sufficient
to cover the operating and maintenance costs of the Province attributable to such
Irrigation System, shall cause all such charges to be paid to the Province, and
shall cause the Province to apply the funds so received exclusively to the operation
and maintenance of such system.
(b)   In the event and to the extent that the funds available to the Province
of East Java from its own resources are insufficient to cover the expenditures
estimated to be required for continuous operation and maintenance in accordance
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, promptly as needed, take
such measures as shall be required to cover such expenditures.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. ' o that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit


﻿10
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of PROSIDA
and the Groundwater Group, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of PROSIDA and the
Groundwater Group and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, or the performance by either of them    of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all sites, works, property
and equipment entrusted to PROSIDA and the Groundwater Group and any
relevant records and documents and to visit any part of the territories of the
Borrower for purposes related to the '   'it.
ARTI.   VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿11
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section '.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare thV principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately toget1er with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. The Borrower and the Associat*  igree that if any default
shall occur under either of the Prior Development Credit Agreements or this
Agreement, and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, the
Association may by notice to the Borrower suspend in whole or in part the right
*       of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the credit account opened under any
such Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date of May 10, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes rf Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall terminate on a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement, or on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿12
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Sjarif Thajeb
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Civil Works Con-               3,750,000           44% of total ex-
tracts under Part                                  penditures
A of the Project
(except for works
on tertiary canals
beyond the first
fifty meters there-
of and on quater-
nary canals)
II.   Construction, ag-              2,500,000           100% of foreign
ricultural and com-                                expenditures and
munications equip-                                 95% of local ex-
ment, vehicles, and                                penditures ex-
related spare parts                                factory
and construction
materials under
Part A of the Proj-
ect
III.  Equipment, materi-               250,000           100% of foreign
als and vehicles                                   expenditures and
for groundwater                                    95% of local ex-
study                                              penditures ex-
factory
IV.   Consultant services             1,250,000          100% of foreign
and overseas train-                                expenditures
ing - groundwater


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
V.    Other consultant                2,750,000           100% of foreign
services and over-                                  expenditures
seas training
VI.   Unallocated                     2,000,000
TOTAL         12,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   " foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.


﻿15
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)  if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.   Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I and
of local expenditures under Categories 11 and III shall increase and no proceeds
of the Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.     Pekalen-Sampean Irrigation Systems
1.    Rehabilitation Works
The rehabilitation and improvement through PROSIDA of such of the
Pekalen-Sampean irrigation systems in East Java as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association, to serve at least 79,100 hectares in the Lumadjang
irrigation area, 88,200 hectares in the Bondowoso irrigation area and 61,800
hectares in the Banjuwangi irrigation area, as follows:
(a)   rehabilitation of headworks and weirs;
(b)   desilting of primary and secondary canals and repair of canal structures;
repairs to canal banks, including sodding as erosion protection and
construction of step-landings to control access for domestic purposes;
and construction of buffalo wallow ponds on primary and secondary
canals;
(c)   rehabilitation of tertiary canals and quaternary canals related thereto
and construction of permanent structures on tertiary and permanent
head gates for quaternary canals;
(d)   rehabilitation of flood and lava control levees;
(e)   repair of service roads, inspection paths and bridges;
(f)   upgrading of selected semi-technical irrigation systems to technical
irrigation systems through the erection of permanent water control
structures; and
(g)   operation and maintenance of each irrigation system until completion
of its rehabilitation under the Project.
2.    Study of Economic Benefits
A study of the estimated economic benefits of Part A 1 of the Project
including the increase in income of farmers and the possibilities of, and the


﻿17
arrangements for, mobilization of part of such increased income for further
development; the study is expected to be completed by March 31, 1975.
3.    Training
A training program consisting of:
(a)   training, in Indonesian institutes, of irrigation and agricultural field
staff in sufficient numbers to ensure the proper operation and
maintenance of the irrigation systems included in Part A 1 of the
Project; and
(b)   overseas training followed by local field training of about six senior
engineers of PROSIDA in the planning, design, operation and
maintenance of irrigation systems.
4.    Agricultural Extension Services
Strengthening of the agricultural extension programs c :he Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture through technical assistance and the provision of equipment
and vehicles.
Part B.      Groundwater
I.    Investigation, through the Groundwater Group, of the groundwater
resources and alternative sources of supplementary water in the Upper Solo and
Madiun Valleys in East Java to determine the most economical method of increasing
water supply for agricultural production in these areas.
2.    Overseas training followed by local field training of about six engineers
or geologists in the planning, design, construction and operation of groundwater
projects.
Part C.     Feasibility Studies
1.    A feasibility study for a new irrigation system serving about 15,000
hectares in the Sampean Baru area in East Java.
2.    Identification of and feasibility studies for one or more projects for
irrigation rehabilitation and surface water storage in Indonesia suitable to benefit
from international financial assistance.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Grouping of Contracts
Civil works contracts shall be grouped in sufficiently large-sized contracts
(with a value of at least $15,000 equivalent) to attract interest from experienced
contractors. Contracts for equipment, vehicles and spare parts, and steel
construction material shall be grouped in amounts sufficient to attract international
competition.
2.    Large Civil Works Contracts and Contracts f6r Equipment, Vehicles and Spare
Parts, and Steel Construction Material
With respect to any contract for civil works estimated to cost $75,000
equivalent or more and for equipment, vehicles and spare parts, and steel
construction material:
(a)   Bidders for civil works contracts shall be required to prequalify. Only
experienced civilian (government or privately owned) contractors shall be
prequalified. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such
modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and
of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before the applicants
are notified and the Borrower shall make such additions or deletions from the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants


﻿19
referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
3.    Other Civil Works Contracts and Construction Materials
With respect to any other contract for civil works or construction materials,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with a copy of the record of public opening
of bids, the analysis of bids, recommendations for award, a statement of the reasons
for any departure from such recommendations, and such other inforiation as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
4.    Exceptions to International Competitive Bidding
Advertisements of bid invitations for civil works contracts and construction
materials other than steel may be limited to newspapers of general circulation in
the Borrower's country.
5.    Evaluation of Foreign and Local Bids for Vehicles and Spare Parts
For the purpose of evaluating bids for contracts for vehicles and spare parts
and associated services, bid prices shall be determined in accordance with the
following rules:
(a)   The term   "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer,
established in the territories of the Borrower, for such goods manufactured or


﻿20
processed to a substantial extent (as determined by the Association) in the
territories of the Borrower; any other bid shall be deemed to be a Foreign Bid.
(b)   The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)        domestic freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         an amount representing the c.i.f. landed price of such goods net
of any taxes on their importation, or, in the case of a Foreign
Bid for goods manufactured or processed in the territories of
the Borrower, the ex-factory price of such goods;
(ii)       in the case of a Foreign Bid for imported goods, an amount
representing any taxes on the importation of the goods into the
territories of the Borrower which generally apply to non-exempt
importers, or 15% of the c.i.f. landed price of the goods,
whichever shall be the lower; or, in the case of a Foreign Bid
for goods manufactured or processed in the territories of the
Borrower, an amount computed by applying any taxes on the
importation of similar goods into the territories of the Borrower
which generally apply to non-exempt importers to the ex-factory
price of the goods, or 15% of the ex-factory price of the goods,
whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii)       an amount representing domestic freight, insurance and other
costs of delivery of the goods to the place of their use or
installation.


