                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 30800

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (IDA-27580 PPFI-P8640 PPFI-P8641)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 63.5 MILLION
                          (US$ 100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                      FOR A

                            WATER SECTOR PROJECT




                                 December 21, 2004




Water and Urban II
Country Department 14
Africa Region

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective June 2004)

                                   Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                                    FCFA 1,000 = US$ 1.87
                                            US$ 1 = FCFA 535

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 -     December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD    Agence Française de Développement
AfDB   African Development Bank
BADEA  Banque Arabe pour le Développement Economique en Afrique (Arab Bank for Economic
       Development in Africa)
BOAD   Banque Ouest Africaine de Développement (West African Development Bank)
CBAO   Compagnie Bancaire de l'Afrique Occidentale
CSE    Conseil Supérieur de l'Eau (High Water Council)
DHA    Direction de l'Hydraulique et de l'Assainissement (Water and Sanitation Directorate)
EIB    European Investment Bank
GIS    Geographic Information System
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
KfW    Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (German Development Bank)
LTWSP  Projet Sectoriel Eau à Long Terme (Long Term Water Sector Project)
MH     Ministry of Hydraulics
NDF    Nordic Development Fund
ONAS   Office National d'Assainissement Urbain (National office of Urban Sanitation)
PCU    Project Coordination Unit
PSE    Projet Sectoriel Eau (Water Sector Project)
PSP    Private Sector Participation
RPF    Request for Proposals
SAR    Staff Appraisal Report
SDE    Sénégalaise des Eaux (Private Operating Company)
SDR    Special Drawing Rights
SGPRE  Service de Gestion et de Planification des Ressources en Eau (Management and Planning Division
       for Water Resources)
SONEES Société Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du Sénégal (the former National Water Utility Company
       of Senegal)
SONES  Société Nationale des Eaux du Sénégal (the new National Water Utility of Senegal)
UFW    Unaccounted-for-Water




                                  Vice President:     Gobind T. Nankani
                               Country Director:      Madani M. Tall
                                Sector Manager:       Inger Andersen
                             Task Team Leader:        Matar Fall

                                              SENEGAL
                                    WATER SECTOR PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
    6. Sustainability                                                                15
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
    9. Partner Comments                                                              19
    10. Additional Information                                                       19
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
    Annex 8. Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Private Sector's comments                31
Map IBRD no. 23121, 23122

Project ID: P002346                                                  Project Name: WATER SECTOR
Team Leader: Matar Fall                                              TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 21, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: WATER SECTOR                                             L/C/TF Number: IDA-27580; PPFI-P8640;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P8641
   Country/Department: SENEGAL                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (85%); Sanitation (15%)
                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Water resource
                            management (P); Other public sector governance (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/01/1993                                     Effective: 04/12/1996                07/12/1996
     Appraisal: 11/28/1994                                         MTR: 06/30/1999                  04/17/2000
      Approval: 06/29/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Senegal/Ministry of Hydraulics; SONES - ONAS
                      Other Partners:      AFD, KfW, EIB, NDF, BOAD, BADEA

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Director:               Madani M. Tall                                 Mahmood Ayub
Sector Manager:                 Inger Andersen                                 Peter Watson
Team Leader at ICR:             Matar Fall                                     Jan G. Janssens
ICR Primary Author:             Joseph van Gastel (consultant);
                                Matar Fall; Sung Heng C. Kok
                                Shun


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) the project's overall development objectives were to address:
(a) sustainability, by improving management, pricing, and cost recovery and reducing Government
subsidies for industrial, domestic and irrigation water; (b) poverty alleviation and health, by increasing
access to safe potable water and adequate and more affordable sanitation for the urban poor; and (c)
private sector participation, by engaging a private company to manage urban water supply.

The project objectives were in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Senegal, which
emphasized the need for reforms in both the water and the power sectors, in order to improve the
competitiveness of the economy. They were appropriate in view of the critical challenges facing the water
and sanitation sector at the time of project preparation, namely: (i) the lack of financial viability of the
national water and sewerage utility, SONEES; (ii) an important backlog of investments, particularly needed
for renewing distribution networks and for expanding the production capacities; and (iii) water shortages in
the Dakar region. In 1995, the Government issued a Letter of Sector Development Policy (LSDP) to
formulate sector reforms aiming at: (i) redefining the role of the Government and reducing the dependency
of the sector on the national budget, (ii) providing affordable access to potable water and adequate
sanitation services to the population and (iii), improving the sector productivity and performance through a
public-private partnership. Continued IDA support was necessary to deepen the water sector reform,
ensure financial discipline and help consolidate public and private cofinancing. On the sanitation side, IDA
support aimed to assist the Government in defining a new strategy and an investment program to address
the growing demand in peri-urban low-income areas.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not changed.

3.3 Original Components:
Component A: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building (SAR base cost: US$ 8.7 million)
This component included three sub-components:
    1. Water resource management: to support the Ministry of Hydraulics in the preparation of a
        national water resource management strategy and to strengthen the capacity of the Management
        and Planning Unit for Water Resources (Service de Gestion et de Planification des Ressources en
        Eau, SGPRE) to monitor groundwater;
    2. Urban water sub-sector institutional capacity building: to support the newly created National
        Water Company of Senegal (Société Nationale des Eaux du Sénégal, SONES) in managing sector
        policy, including auditing and cost accounting.
    3. Sanitation institutional capacity building: to support the newly created the National Office of
        Urban Sanitation (Office National d'Assainissement Urbain, ONAS) in the formulation of a
        national strategy for sanitation in urban and peri-urban areas.

Component B: Urban Water Supply (SAR base cost: US$ 205.3 million)
This component also consisted of three sub-components:
    1. Urban water production: to (i) increase the water production capacity for Dakar and its peri-urban
        areas; (ii) improve the transport of additional volume of water to Dakar; and (iii) optimize water
        production operations.
    2. Water supply and distribution: to (i) reduce leakages in the Greater Dakar water distribution
        networks; (ii) install low income house connections and public standpipes; and (iii) extend the
        distribution networks to unserved areas; and (iv) improve water distribution systems for selected



                                                     - 2 -

         secondary cities.
    3. Logistic support to: (i) provide advisory support services to SONES in carrying out detailed
         engineering studies, preparation of bidding documents and supervision of works; (ii) provide
         laboratory equipment for water quality control, computer equipment and software for
         modernization of management; (iii) rehabilitate office facilities for SONES; (iv) conduct
         maintenance and financial audits of the private operating company (Sénégalaise des Eaux, SDE)
         over the period 1996-2000; and (v) assist the Government in the preparation of a future water
         project, the Long-Term Water Sector Project.

Component C: Urban Sanitation (SAR base cost: US$ 31.6 million)
This component aimed to improve sanitation in urban and peri-urban areas (Dakar region, secondary towns
and riparian centers, Saint Louis and Rufisque) and to deal with the increased volumes of wastewater
resulting from the additional water consumption generated by the project.               It includes the following
sub-components: (i) to increase the number of private connections to the sanitation system in Dakar; (ii) to
rehabilitate the wastewater treatment plant of Dakar in order to reuse the treated water for irrigation in
peri-urban areas of Dakar; (iii) to prepare sewerage master plans for 13 secondary centers and (iv) to carry
out sewerage and drainage works in Saint-Louis and Rufisque.

The project components represent a well-balanced mix of institutional support, capacity building and
infrastructure works. They allowed to meet the immediate needs of urban residents and to accommodate a
growing population by expanding production, increasing service coverage and improving efficiency. In
particular, much attention was given to the improvement of water and sanitation services in low-income
peri-urban areas. The components supported the implementation of sector reforms by building the capacity
of the public institutions, which was critical for the success of the public-private partnership in urban water
supply and of the revamping of the sewerage sector. The emphasis put on water supply services was also
appropriate, as the existence of a strong and performing water utility would pave the way to improving cost
recovery and sustainability for sanitation services.

3.4 Revised Components:
The nature of the components was not revised. However, as substantial savings accrued from efficient
procurement and from favorable exchange rates during project implementation, a number of additional
works were executed. Those works were in line with the project objectives and did not require amending
the project description.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated as highly satisfactory in view of (i) the strong consensus and commitment
generated by the sector reforms among all stakeholders (Government, unions, civil society and donors); (ii)
the comprehensive and innovative design of the institutional and contractual arrangements, which allowed
to attract and further retain the private sector; (iii) the efficient treatment of safeguards issues; and (iv) the
project's readiness for implementation resulting from the early completion of reforms and from the
establishment of efficient monitoring and regulatory instruments.

Consensus and commitment to reforms and objectives

The project objectives were consistent with Government's priorities for the sector and there was a
strong commitment of the Government to implement sector reforms. The project objectives supported
the Government's long-term water sector development strategy, as laid down in the LSDP.                         The
Government's strategy was to withdraw from commercial activities, to improve the competitiveness of the
economy by reducing the cost of inputs, and to reduce poverty through the provision of safe water and



                                                         - 3 -

sanitation to low-income households. The Water Sector Project aimed to support the needed institutional
reforms and to execute critical investments so that Senegal could meet the urban demand for safe water in
the medium-term (2000). Ensuring the long-term sustainability of the sector was the objective of a
follow-up Long Term Water Sector Project (LTWSP) which was prepared under the present project.

In the LSDP, the Government committed itself to a number of measures to accompany the Water Sector
Project in order to guarantee the success of the institutional reform and to ensure the financial viability of
the sector. These measures are the following:

    1. Reduction of the water use for market gardening. The envisaged strategy would reduce the
         consumption of market gardeners by 10,000 m3/day from 1999 onwards.
    2. Reduction of the water consumption of state agencies. The envisaged strategy would result in
         water savings by reducing the consumption by 10,000 m3/day at the end of the project.
    3. Timely payment of state agencies' water bills. The Government would put in place a budgeting
         and payment system that would result in a reduced accounts receivable period of less than 4
         months from 1996 onwards.
    4. Financial equilibrium of the urban water sector. The Government committed itself to apply
         yearly tariff increases in order to achieve the financial equilibrium of the sector by December 2003.

As noted above, the project components were consistent with pursued objectives.

There was strong leadership of the Government during project preparation. For the purpose of project
preparation, the Government established a steering committee (Comité de Pilotage) with representatives
from each government agency involved in water supply and sanitation, together with the Office of the
President and the Office of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Hydraulics, the
Ministry of Industrial Development.         This committee fostered a strong cooperation among different
ministries and ensured that decisions were taken collectively.

The project preparation process was well organized and included frequent stakeholder consultations.
During project preparation, a series of workshops were organized to ensure extensive and systematic
stakeholder consultations on central issues of the project. These workshops included one on privatization
options and the roles and responsibilities of each actor in the sector, and another to analyze the risks of the
reform.

There was a very good coordination between donors during project preparation. The dialogue with the
client was well harmonized among donors, to talk by one voice to the Government. Under the leadership of
the Bank, several joint donor missions were organized including the project appraisal mission. Three
donors (AFD, EU and BOAD) participated in Washington on project negotiations between IDA and the
Government of Senegal.

Innovative design of arrangements

The PSP package provided innovative answers to issues identified in previous operations. A study tour
was conducted in three sub-Saharan countries (Gambia, Guinea and Côte d'Ivoire) to analyze their diverse
experiences of private sector participation (PSP) in the water sector and take it into account in the design of
the institutional reform. One of the main lessons learned from these cases was that the reform should be
driven by basic concepts of transparency, accountability, autonomy and incentives. Based on this, the
Government decided to entrust the responsibilities of sector development, long-term planning and oversight
of the sector to the public assets holding company, SONES, and the day-to-day operation of the water


                                                       - 4 -

supply to a private operating company, SDE. SONES would be a lean organization, employing qualified
staff under conditions distinct from the civil service and would have independent contracting authority. The
staff of both SONES and SDE would be recruited from the previous SONEES so that there would be no
loss of jobs. The private operator would manage the water supply on the basis of a 10-year lease contract.
The lease option was in fact an hybrid form of contract since it includes elements of a concession type of
contract. It imposed the responsibility for certain investments in the distribution network on the private
operator. These investments would help the private operator in achieving the performance objectives that
were set by the contract. The remuneration of the private operator is directly linked to the achievement of
key performance objectives, such as the reduction of unaccounted for water (UFW) and improvement of the
billing and collection efficiency. Finally, given the underdevelopment of the sanitation sector, it was
decided not to include it in the contract with the private operator for water supply, but instead to entrust it
to an autonomous public agency. For this purpose, the Government established ONAS, which would
ensure the operation, upkeep and development of the sewerage networks previously managed by SONEES.
SDE was given the responsibility of billing and collecting sanitation fees (included in the water bills) on
behalf of ONAS.

Effective use of two-stage bidding for the selection of the private operator. To attract an international
private operator the Government first went through a prequalification process. The four prequalified
companies were invited to attend a pre-bid meeting in Dakar (early 1995) and to comment on the draft
Request for Proposals. The final RFP was sent to the bidders in July 1995. The procurement method
consisted of a two stage bidding process that would guarantee competition until the final evaluation stage.
In the first stage the prequalified bidders had to submit a technical proposal only. All four prequalified
companies participated in the first-stage bidding (August 31, 1995). During the evaluation of the technical
proposals one bidder was eliminated because of noncompliance. The shortcomings or ambiguities of the
remaining technical proposals were then discussed with each bidder individually during clarification
meetings. One more bidder was eliminated at that stage as it did not comply with several essential
requirements of the RFP. The conclusions of the clarification meetings were inserted in a memorandum
and the two remaining bidders were requested to adjust their technical proposals accordingly and to submit
a second-stage bid, which consisted of modified technical proposals and financial bids. Provided that the
final technical proposals would observe all requirements as stipulated in the memorandums of the
clarification meetings, the selection of the winning bidder would be on the basis of a single award criterion,
the lowest operator rate per cubic meter. In October 1995, SAUR International was declared the winning
bidder with a lease fee of 236 FCFA per cubic meter, which represented approximately 60 percent of the
average water tariff at that time.

Safeguards

The project provided for a comprehensive and integrated treatment of safeguards. The protection of the
fragile groundwater resources that supplied Dakar was a major environmental issue for the sector. The
project went beyond the mandatory Environmental Management Plan by fully integrating the groundwater
concerns in its design.     The preparation allowed to identify an optimal sequence of investments for
mobilizing water resources, by mixing a transitional use of a new aquifer with the reinforcement of
(surface) water treatment facilities and with the laying of water transmission lines that may be used in
further schemes involving surface water. The project also provided for the expansion of sewerage networks
that would help collect the incremental wastewater generated by increased consumption.             O.D. 7.50
(Projects on International Waterways) was triggered by the abstraction of water from the Guiers Lake,
which is a natural reservoir supplied by the Senegal River. Senegal benefited from water rights previously
allocated in the context of the international organization of the Senegal riparian countries (Organisation
pour la mise en valeur du fleuve Sénégal, OMVS). The notification went through the normal channels of


                                                      - 5 -

OMVS.

Readiness for implementation

The institutional reform of the urban water sector was implemented as a condition of credit
effectiveness. The main condition for effectiveness of the IDA credit was that the institutional reform of
the water and sanitation sector should be in place. The National Assembly passed the law implementing
the institutional reform of the urban water sector in March 1995. The relations between the Government,
SONES and SDE were clearly defined and governed by four contracts:

    1. A 30-year Concession Contract between the Government, represented by the Ministry of
         Hydraulics (MH), and SONES, delegating the management of public water supply in urban areas
         to SONES,
    2. A Sector Development Contract (Contrat Plan) between MH and SONES, defining the
         development objectives of the urban water supply sector;
    3. A 10-year Lease Contract between MH, SONES and SDE, delegating operation of urban water
         supply to the private operator SDE.
    4. A Performance Contract between SONES and SDE that is included as an annex to the Lease
         Contract that stipulates performance levels to be achieved by both parties.

The project put in place adequate monitoring and regulatory tools. One of the main objectives of the
project was to establish long-term financial viability through increased efficiency and effectiveness. During
project preparation a financial model was developed in order to plan for financial equilibrium of the sector
and to monitor its progress in achieving it. The financial equilibrium of the sector was defined as the
situation in which the accumulated cash deficit was reduced to zero and a sustained accumulated cash
surplus was further generated. An optimal scenario was developed in which financial equilibrium would be
reached in 2003. It was based first, on efficiency improvements resulting from the sector reform and the
implementation of the investment program of the Water Sector Project, and second, on consumer tariff
increases not exceeding three percent per year. In addition to its use in tariff-setting, the financial model
proved to be a very useful tool for financial planning/management and monitoring of the sector during
project implementation. The lease contract with the private operator included an extensive set of verifiable
performance indicators.     These indicators provided a useful tool to monitor progress during project
implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is rated as highly satisfactory. The Senegal case is regarded as a model
of public-private partnership in sub-Saharan Africa. This case has been documented and disseminated in
the Bank (Water Week and various presentations) and in the region. It was replicated successfully in Niger
in 2001. The project also allowed to restore and maintain the credibility of the sector with the donors
community and to pave the way for private financing as well as lending without Government guarantees.

During project preparation, the following four primary risks had been identified:

    1. at the institutional level: whether SONES would assume responsibilities from SONEES in an
         effective and timely manner.
    2. at the financial level: whether the objective of sector equilibrium in 2003 would be met given the
         country's precarious economic and fiscal situation.



                                                     - 6 -

     3. at the private sector level: whether there would be sufficient interest from private companies,
          given the complexity of the Dakar situation and the obligation of the private operator to invest in
          the distribution network.
     4. at the private operator level: whether the lowest bid would be sufficiently low to allow for
          financial viability of the water sector at a tariff level acceptable to the Senegalese authorities.

Through careful implementation of the project all the above risks have been avoided. The project has
provided adequate support to SONES to assume its new responsibilities. Because of rigorous financial
management, the financial equilibrium of the sector was achieved within the agreed time frame. By
adopting a proper marketing strategy and a robust and transparent bidding process, sufficient interest from
private operators was mobilized. The two stage bidding procedure guaranteed fair competition and resulted
in a winning bid that was low enough to allow for financial viability of the sector with moderate tariff
increases.

The achievement of project objectives and outputs is evaluated as follows (see Annex 1 for the performance
indicators):

A.        Sustainability, by improving management, pricing and cost recovery and reducing
Government subsidy for industrial, domestic and irrigation water is rated as satisfactory.

The institutional reform supported by the project has significantly improved the overall management of the
sector by streamlining responsibilities at the adequate level (see below section 4.5). The annual tariff
increases required to achieve financial equilibrium have been timely applied since 1996 and amounted, on
average, to 3 percent, as initially set in the LSDP. A new tariff structure was adopted in January 2003,
two years after the date anticipated at appraisal. The new tariff structure introduced the following changes:
(i) it raised extra revenues for ONAS; (ii) the dissuasive block tariff for domestic consumers was lowered
from 100 m3 to 40 m3 per month; (iii) a single block tariff was introduced for non-domestic consumers;
and (iv) the price of water for market gardeners above a certain quota was substantially increased. Despite
the approval delay, the new tariff structure contributed to strengthen the financial viability of the sector.

The urban water sector reached financial equilibrium on December 31, 2003 as initially expected. The
cash balance of SONES was 1.3 billion FCFA, (US$2.6M) after honoring all its obligations including
payments of 10 billion FCFA (US$20M) for debt service in 2003. This important achievement is the result
of combined efforts from all parties concerned, notably the Government, SONES (the holding company)
and SDE (the private operator). From 1996 to 2002, the Government paid regularly its water bills within
two to three months of the issuance of bills. However, from the end of 2002 to mid-2004, a gradual build
up of arrears was observed due to insufficient budget allocations. The arrears increased to 2.3 billion
FCFA (US$4.5M) in June 2003, which represented approximately 5 percent of the annual turnover of the
sector. The Government, fully aware of this critical situation, took the necessary steps to settle these
arrears and allocated sufficient funds in the 2004 budget in order to restore the situation that prevailed
before 2002.

Significant results have also been obtained in the action plan to reduce the water consumption of state
agencies, which decreased from 27,700 m3/day in 1996 to 22,700 m3 in 2003. This is below the reduction
target of 10,000 m3/day set in the LSDP, but the target proved to be elusive because the initial baseline
was actually overestimated. The water consumption of the market gardeners decreased from 24,000
m3/day in 1995 to 18,000 m3/day in 2003. This reduction is important, but the average daily consumption
is still higher than the LSDP target of 14,000 m3/day (equivalent to four percent of the total water
demand). The target was actually reached by the end of year 2000, but the situation deteriorated in 2001


                                                        - 7 -

when the newly elected Government granted additional water quotas to market gardeners. As the new tariff
structure introduced on September 2003 is quite dissuasive, water cconsumption by market gardeners is
expected to get back under the target by 2005.

B.       Poverty alleviation and health, by increasing access to safe potable water and adequate and
more affordable sanitation for the urban poor is rated as highly satisfactory.

The achievements summarized hereunder result exclusively from the impact of this project. They do not
take into account the results of the follow-up LTWSP.

The project has been very effective in increasing the access of the urban poor to safe water. Between 1996
and 2003 water production increased by 18 percent, from 264,000 m3/day to 312,000 m3/day. Through
water network extensions and the construction of 81,000 new social connections (compared to the 34,000
initially planned) and 400 public standpipes, it is estimated that, country-wide, about one million additional
people (twice as much as initially expected) have been served directly by the project. This additional
population mostly lives in peri-urban areas and belongs to low-income groups. In the Dakar region, the
coverage of water services increased from 79 percent in 1996 to 87 percent in 2003. The quality and
continuity of services has considerably improved with few interruptions in the water supply, which
particularly benefitted the poor households who do not have storage facilities. The incentives incorporated
in the lease contract greatly contributed to increase service to the poor. As the operator receives a fixed
remuneration for each cubic meter of water sold, he has a positive incentive to add more customers,
irrespective of whether they are rich or poor and irrespective of which tariff the customer pays.

In the urban sanitation sector the sewerage network has been extended by over 80 km with 13,000 new
connections to the sewerage system, which exceeds the initial target of 10,000 connections. These new
connections are likewise mostly located in peri-urban areas (150,000 additional people served by the
project).

C.       Private sector participation, by engaging a private company to manage urban water supply is
rated as highly satisfactory.

The engagement of a private operator to manage the urban water supply has been successful due to the
strong partnership between the public and private sectors (Government/ SONES/SDE). On April 23, 1996
SDE took over day-to-day operations from SONES, which remained in charge of the overall sector
development and of supervising the performance of the private operator.

SDE proved to be an efficient and well-managed organization, which put much effort in building the
capacities of its staff. Moreover, it has introduced modern support systems with respect to billing and
collection, consumer registration, and maintenance and repair of the water supply systems. In August
2001, SDE obtained ISO 2001 certification. SDE is performing as expected and fulfilled all its investment
obligations with respect to the rehabilitation of pipes, connections and water meters.           Most of the
performance targets of the lease contract have been met. The bill collection ratio has increased from 95
percent to 98 percent (above the initial target) and UFW decreased from 31.5 percent in 1996 to 20
percent. Although this ratio is lower than the target of 15 percent, it does not affect the financial situation
of the sector as it falls under the commercial risk of the private operator. The physical, chemical and
bacteriological quality of the distributed drinking water has improved and meets in all respects the
prescribed standards.

4.2 Outputs by components:



                                                      - 8 -

A. Institutional Support and Capacity Building (Actual cost: US$13.2 million)

The overall output of this component is rated as satisfactory as well as the implementation of the
environmental management plan (EMP) of the project. The EMP was mostly related to the protection of
groundwater resources in the region of Dakar and the surface water of the Guiers Lake.

Institutional support to Water Resources Management and Planning. The project provided a significant
support to the Ministry of Hydraulics and notably to the SGPRE with respect to water resource
management. This assistance included: (i) two strategic studies of the water resources supplying Dakar
(the Guiers Lake and the deep Maestrichtien aquifer); and (ii) support to the national hydrologic services
and development of a Geographic Information System (GIS). The studies provided a better understanding
of the hydrological behavior of the resources, on the basis of which management tools could be developed.
Moreover, the establishment of the GIS allowed to ensure continuity in collecting and registering data for a
better management of water resources at the national level. The project also provided training to SGPRE
staff for using the newly developed management tools. The project also supplied the necessary computer
equipment and assisted in the establishment of a small laboratory and a documentation center.

The project supported the establishment of the High Water Council (Conseil Supérieur de l'Eau, CSE),
directly under the authority of the Prime Minister. The CSE is responsible for the definition of the main
orientations of the integrated water resources management strategy. The major decisions taken by the
Council include: (i) the establishment of a management organization for the Guiers Lake consisting of a
Management Unit (Cellule de Gestion du Lac) and a Technical Committee in which all water users are
represented; and (ii) the review of the legal framework for water resource management at the national level.

Institutional support to SONES. This support mainly consisted of consultant services for a number of
activities, including a willingness-to-pay and affordability study, a water and sanitation tariff study, the
harmonization of the legal texts for the newly created SONES, an assessment of SONES staff and the
execution of financial and technical audits of SDE. The financial management capacity of SONES was
also reinforced. As a result of the support provided by the project, the financial management department of
SONES has internalized the use of the financial model to plan and monitor the sector's financial situation.
Under the institutional support component, SONES also purchased new hard-and software to complement
its IT office equipment.

Institutional support to ONAS. The institutional support to ONAS consisted mainly of: the development
and implementation of a computerized financial and administrative system, the inventory of the assets of
the urban sanitation sector and the purchase of hardware and software.

Capacity building. Under the capacity building sub-component the training of staff of the Ministry of
Hydraulics, SONES and ONAS was financed as well as their participation in meetings, conferences and
workshops in their respective fields of interest.     A total 141 staff (32 SONES, 63 ONAS and 46
MH/SGPRE) benefited from this training, which represented approximately 3,900 man-days.

Public information campaign. This campaign made it possible to identify the neighborhoods where
standpipes had to be installed, to set up a management structure for the standpipes, to collect complaints
concerning water supply and sanitation and to inform the population of how to apply for a social
connection. By means of press articles and radio/television spots, the public was informed of the benefits
of the project in terms of social connections to the drinking water and sewerage systems. This campaign
highlighted the proper use of clear and safe water, the cost of access to water and basic sanitation and
health behaviors.


                                                    - 9 -

B. Urban Water Supply (Actual cost: US$184.8 million)

The overall output of this component is rated as highly satisfactory.

Urban Water production sub-component. All the planned water production works were satisfactorily
completed by the end of 2000. An additional water production capacity of 60,000 m3/day has been
available since July 1999 to the Dakar region through the extension of the treatment plant of Ngnith
(AFD/BOAD financing) and the construction of 11 new wells in the Littoral Nord (AFD financing). Water
is supplied to Dakar by means of new transmission mains laid between Guéoul and Thiès (100 km, 1,000
mm) and between Thiès and Dakar (55 km, 1,200 mm). 21 new piezometers were installed to monitor the
increased water abstraction from the Littoral Nord aquifer. Near the city of Thiès, two new wells have
been constructed for supplying additional water to this town. The water storage capacity in Dakar
increased with the construction of a new reservoir of 25,000 m3 at the site of Mamelles, completed in 2003.
An innovative remote control system has also been installed with a dispatcher room in the offices of SDE to
centrally operate the water production and transport system.

Because of substantial savings compared to initial provisions in some of the above IDA-financed
components and also because of a favorable exchange rate during project implementation, a number of
additional works could be realized. Four drinking water production sites operated by SDE never had been
equipped with a chlorinating system and two production sites had a very rudimentary one. This situation
was addressed by the project and four new chlorinating systems have been constructed while the other two
were refurbished. In Tivouane, a new elevated water reservoir of 650 m3 with a feeder pipe of 3-km length
has been constructed.      In the towns of Kolda and Matam the groundwater used for drinking water
production contains iron, manganese and sulfuric acid exceeding WHO standards. To take out these
substances two de-ironing stations (aeration and sand filtration), one in each town, have been built.

Water supply and distribution sub-component. The 100-km pipe rehabilitation program was financed by
AFD and implemented by SONES. It started in 1998 and was completed by the end of 2000 as scheduled
in the SAR. The program was split into six lots and finally amounted to 120 km of equivalent diameter
100 mm. The lots pertaining to the secondary water distribution network (five out of six) were tendered to
different contractors, while the sixth lot relating to the tertiary distribution network (small diameters) was
directly awarded to SDE on the basis of the unit prices quoted in the lease contract bid. IDA financed an
additional pipe rehabilitation program after the completion of the AFD-financed program. This program
consisted of five lots totaling 185 km of pipe of equivalent diameter 100 mm. The three lots for the
secondary water distribution systems were tendered to different contractors, while the two lots for the
tertiary distribution systems were directly awarded to SDE. The rehabilitation of private connections was
carried out simultaneous with the rehabilitation of small diameter distribution pipes. At the time of this ICR
25,000 private connections compared to the appraisal target of 30,000 were rehabilitated (83 percent
completion rate).

During the first phase of the project, the extension works on the water distribution network and the social
connections and public standpipes program, were concentrated in the Dakar region. These works were
divided over six lots, covering approximately half of the appraisal target of 400 standpipes and 34,000
social connections. The program expanded significantly in the second phase of the project. The balance of
the initially targeted program and additional works that could be financed from savings were executed. The
focus shifted from Dakar to the villages connected to the water transmission main from the Guiers Lake
and to other regional capitals (Saint Louis, Diourbel, Kaolack, Fatick and Ziguinchor). Finally a total of
81,000 social connections (compared to the initial target of 34,000) and 400 standpipes were executed as


                                                     - 10 -

well as 400 km small pipe extension works.

A program for rehabilitating the internal water plumbing of public buildings was designed to reduce the
water consumption of state agencies. This program was divided over seven lots: two for universities
(Dakar, Thiès, Saint Louis) and five for various ministries. The works consisted of repairing water leaks,
replacing pipes, rehabilitation of sanitary plumbing, and installation of individual water meters for the
occupants of public dwellings.       All these works were fully completed except for the installation of
individual water meters, due to the reluctance of some occupants of public dwellings.

Logistic support to SONES. Logistic support was provided to SONES through technical advisory services
in carrying out final studies, preparation of bid documents, and supervision of works.

C.       Urban Sanitation (Actual cost: US$24.2 million)

The overall output of this component is rated as satisfactory.

Except for the first two sub-components, the financing of this component was not secured at project
appraisal. After the first phase of the project, the urban sanitation component benefited from important
re-allocations of project funds and could be fully financed from the IDA credit. The achievements of the
sanitation component are the following.

The sewerage social connection program. The social connection program faced some start up problems
during the first phase of the project because the entry fee for beneficiaries was initially set at a too high
level of FCFA 100,000 (US$200). Moreover, it appeared that high demand areas were located far from the
existing sewerage system, which meant that unforeseen extensions of the collection system had to be made.
It was therefore decided to revise the program in order to speed up implementation. The modifications
consisted of the following: (i) to decrease substantially the entry fee to FCFA 19,000 (US$38) and simplify
application procedures; (ii) to launch public information campaigns and (iii), to include limited extensions
of the secondary sewage network in order to increase the number of potential connections.              These
modifications have been very effective. At project completion, 13,000 new connections had been executed,
exceeding the initial target of 10,000 connections as well as 80 km of sewage network extension.

Cambérène wastewater treatment plant. The rehabilitation of the Cambérène wastewater treatment plant
and the installation of a tertiary treatment system started in 2002 and were completed in 2004. The treated
effluent is transported through a 2.8 km pipeline from the tertiary treatment system to a nearby golf course
for irrigation.

Drainage works - Saint Louis. The project financed a drainage master plan for the city of Saint-Louis,
which identified a priority investment program of about 4 billion FCFA (US$8M). The IDA Credit
financed an amount of 1.8 billion FCFA (US$3.6M) of the priority program. These works were completed
in 2002.

Sewerage works - Rufisque. The initially identified investment program amounted to 2.9 billion FCFA
(US$5.8M). It consisted of rehabilitation of existing drains, extension of the sewerage network by the
construction of new collector drains and building a new wastewater treatment. During implementation, the
scope of the program was expanded by adding 1,800 social connections to connect all downtown
households to the sewerage system. The additional cost (0.8 billion FCFA - US$1.6M) was financed from
the savings resulting from not executing the three decentralized treatment plants (see below). Connecting
the population living in the center of the city has greatly increased the impact of the sewerage works in


                                                     - 11 -

Rufisque. The completion of the sewerage works in Rufisque and of the Cambérène wastewater treatment
works required to extend the project closing date by six months.

Sewerage master plans - 19 secondary towns. These studies were financed by the Nordic Development
Fund and concern 19 secondary towns (Bambey, Bakel, Bargny, Bignona, Dagana, Diourbel, Fatick,
Foundiougne, Joal, Kédougou, Kolda, Matam, Mbacké, Mbour, Nioro, Podor, Richard Toll, Tivouane,
Touba). The master plans were prepared during the first project phase. They constitute the basis for the
implementation of sewerage investment programs in future projects such as the LTWSP.

Three decentralized wastewater treatment plants. This sub-component concerned the rehabilitation of
three existing treatment plants in the peri-urban area of Dakar. The studies, designs and tender documents
were finalized under the project.         However, because of time constraints, construction works were
transferred to the LTWSP.

Logistic support - ONAS. Logistic support was provided to ONAS through technical advisory services in
carrying out detailed design studies, preparation of bidding documents and supervision of works.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis in the SAR focused on the urban water supply component of the project which
represented 83 percent of total project costs. At appraisal, the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of
the component was estimated at 14.1 percent. The economic costs and benefits were derived from the
consolidated (SDE and SONES) financial forecasts. Incremental financial costs (capital and O&M) were
adjusted for inflation, after deducting taxes, debt service and depreciation. Incremental benefits consisted
of (i) incremental sales adjusted for inflation; and (ii) consumer surplus estimated assuming a price
elasticity of -0.2.

An ex-post evaluation of the EIRR was carried out by using the same methodology. A comparison with the
SAR figures show that (i) the water consumption in Dakar is lower than expected, even though more people
are served than initially forecast; (ii) investment costs have been lower than expected; and (iii) incremental
O&M costs are lower than expected. Tariff revisions have been applied as agreed with the Government
since 1995. The ex-post EIRR is estimated now at 13.7 percent, which is quite similar to the SAR
estimate. The table in annex 3 provides the elements of the calculation.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
As mentioned above, the urban water sector reached its financial equilibrium at the end of 2003, as initially
expected and laid down in the LSDP.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated as high and is reflected in the improved
allocation, delivery and regulation of responsibilities by the sectoral institutions.

At sector level, the reforms supported by the project established an improved allocation and regulation of
responsibilities. Prior conflicts on the selection of investments between MH and SONEES disappeared, as
the new SONES became solely responsible for urban water investments. MH focused on sector policies,
regulation and on an advocacy role, and was particularly effective in streamlining financial relations with
the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister's Office to facilitate the approval of tariff revisions. The
public-public partnerships (between MH, SONES and ONAS) functioned smoothly because (i) their
relationships were formalized in contractual arrangements (concession contract and contrat-plan); and (ii)
they were regulated by the financial model, which provided an objective basis to tariff revisions and



                                                     - 12 -

investment decisions.

The project helped SONES to strengthen its technical and financial management capacity, to implement the
current investment program and to prepare the Long Term Water Project. The project also helped SONES
and MH to acquire the expertise and technical support required to establish and maintain a balanced
partnership with SDE.

ONAS was established to manage the existing infrastructure and to develop urban and peri-urban
sanitation. Previously, these tasks were shared by SONEES (management) and the Ministry of Hydraulics
(development).     The project supported ONAS to strengthen its technical and financial management
capacity, to develop a national urban sanitation strategy and to implement the current investment program.
The project also introduced a new tariff structure, raising much more revenues for ONAS. As a result, the
financial situation of ONAS has considerably improved, in such a way that ONAS is now able to cover its
operational expenses and finance the renewal of part of its assets (electromechanical equipment which
economic life is less than 15 years). At the end of the project, the urban sanitation sector is in a much
better position to fill the gap between urban sanitation and water supply.

The project helped SGPRE to strengthen its capacities in water resources management. As mentioned
above, SGPRE now uses a Geographic Information System and hydrologic models in its day to day
operations. The project also assisted SGPRE in strengthening its revenue base, which consists of the
groundwater withdrawal tax to be paid by groundwater users. By means of an exhaustive inventory and a
better registration of information, the basis for this tax was extended and secured. SDE takes care of the
collection of the tax on behalf of SGPRE.

Finally the project supported the establishment of the CSE (see above, section 4.2.A)

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Finalization of commercial financing. The project was approved on June 29, 1995 and became effective
twelve months later on July 12, 1996. This one-year delay was attributable to long discussions with the
commercial banks (City Bank/CBAO), which were to provide bridge financing to SONES (the agreement
on the credit line was a condition for IDA Credit effectiveness). The size of the credit line (US$20 million)
and the fact that this was the first instance of a sector agency borrowing without the guarantee of the
Government explain most of the delay.

Project savings. The initial closing date of the Credit was June 30, 2001. A first extension of 30 months
was granted until December 31, 2003, and a second extension of six months brought the closing date to
June 30, 2004. Two main reasons explain the longer than expected project implementation period. The
first reason was the delay on the credit effectiveness (see above). The second reason is the fact that, due to
transparent procurement of large civil works, bids have been well below the SAR cost estimates.
Moreover, the exchange rate US$/FCFA changed substantially in favor of the project during project
implementation--the US$ varied from 535 FCFA in the SAR to about 650 FCFA when most disbursements
were made. The combined effect of low bids and a favorable exchange rate resulted in savings amounting
to approximately 25 percent (US$ 25 million) of the credit. The reallocation of the resulting balance
affected the project duration, as more time was needed to identify and implement additional civil works
financed under the savings. The longer implementation period actually allowed the project to ensure
continuous support to the urban water sector in Senegal and largely contributed to the success of the




                                                     - 13 -

reform.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
High turnover of managers of public institutions. The general managers of SONES and ONAS were
frequently (three times) changed by the Government.            Whether those changes were related to their
management performance is unclear. The managerial instability had, however, a limited impact on the
project performance, thanks to the determination and commitment of the Water and Sanitation Directorate
(Direction de l'Hydraulique et de l'assainissement, DHA) and of the PCU (see below section 7.6).

Delay in the introduction of the new tariff structure. Although this has not affected the main objective of
financial equilibrium of the water sector, a timely introduction of the new tariff structure would have
enhanced the Government policy to reduce the water consumption of market gardeners. In addition, it
would have helped improve sooner the financial position of ONAS.

Water quotas of market gardeners. As mentioned above, the newly elected Government decided in 2001 to
grant new water quotas to market gardeners. However, the Government later confirmed its commitment to
controlling their water consumption by formulating a new action program specified in its second water
sector policy letter, that is being implemented and monitored under the LTWSP; this program aims
particularly to provide alternate sources of supply to market gardeners.

Arrears in payment of the water bills by state agencies and universities. Since 1996, the Government has
paid its water bills on a regular basis. In that respect, the Senegal case is quite a unique model in
sub-Saharan Africa where the nonpayment of state agencies water bills is one of the major constraints to
the development of the water sector. As mentioned above, central government agencies accumulated
arrears in 2003. These arrears were finally settled by the end of April 2004, and sufficient funds were
allocated to water expenses in the national budget for 2004. The case of the universities in Dakar and Saint
Louis is distinct from that of central government, since they rely on their own autonomous budgets for
paying their water bills. As a result, the private operator has experienced some difficulties in recovering
payments from these institutions and the ministry of Finance is exploring ways to ensure prompt payments
by those institutions.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Reduction of Unaccounted-for-Water. SDE was required to reduce UFW from 27 percent in 1996 to 15
percent in 2000. The lease contract included strong financial incentives to meet this performance target.
After take-over of operations, the UFW target has been one of the central issues in the implementation of
the contract, which provided for an adjustment of the baseline value on the basis of an ex-post
contradictory assessment . In 1998, SONES and SDE agreed to revise the base year figure (from 27
percent to 31.5 percent) and the year in which UFW would reach 15 percent was postponed from 2000 to
2002. The interim targets were correspondingly recalculated. By the end of 2003, SDE achieved an UFW
ratio of 20 percent. Even though an UFW reduction of 11.5 percentage points over a period of eight years
is appreciable, the contractual target has not been reached. In hindsight, one may wonder whether the
target was realistic and consistent with the size of the network rehabilitation program, which has been fully
implemented by now. In any case, it is to be noted that (i) the private operator was fully aware of the
implications of the target when it submitted a bid; and (ii) more importantly, the operator's failure to reach
the contractual target does not affect the financial situation of the sector because the private operator has to
compensate SONES for the difference between its performance and the contractual target.

Delays in the implementation of the sewerage connection program. The start up of the newly created



                                                     - 14 -

ONAS took more time than anticipated, therefore there were delays in the execution of studies to identify
work programs in urban sanitation. In addition, the initial entry fee for a new connection was too high for
the beneficiaries and the areas of high demand for private connections were located far from the existing
sewerage system, which meant that unforeseen extensions of the collection system had to be made.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Annex 2 provides the detailed information on project costs and financing. The total project costs were
estimated at US$290 million (FCFA 142 billion at the 1995 exchange rate) in the SAR. The final costs
were US$223 million (or FCFA 118 billion), i.e. 77 percent of the SAR estimates. As mentioned above,
this results from efficient procurement and from the favorable exchange rate. For similar reasons, IDA and
the cofinanciers provided 85 percent and 78 percent, respectively of their expected contribution in dollar
terms. The final disbursement rate of the IDA credit is however 98.6 percent, as the value of the SDR
declined against the US dollar. The Government timely provided counterpart funding for the urban
sanitation component. SONES' s contribution is lower than expected (30 percent of the SAR estimate),
although the company complied with the DCA requirements. Because of an implementation period longer
than expected, SONES used only a fraction (US$8 million) of its credit line from commercial banks.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated as highly likely.

As the project lasted eight years, many project components were completed long before the closing date.
This provided ample opportunities to check their sustainability.        For instance, the retention rate of
customers with social connections (i.e. the proportion of customers that are not cut-off for non-payment
within one year of their connection) is higher (93 percent) than in any other country of the sub-region. As a
whole, the water supply infrastructure constructed under the project is operated by SDE, and therefore is
and will be operated and maintained according to private sector standards, agreed upon safeguards and
adequate utility management.

The urban water sector has become financially autonomous and is able to cover its operational and capital
expenditures without direct Government subsidies. The financial model shows that the sector will be able to
ensure its self-financing during the coming years, provided that the water tariffs adjustments follow the
inflation rate. Through the introduction of a new tariff structure, the financial situation of ONAS has
considerably improved. ONAS is able to cover its operational expenses and to finance the renewal of
assets with a lifespan lesser than 15 years (electromechanical equipment).

The regulatory framework embedded in the contractual arrangements and supported by the financial model
proved to be an essential factor of the robustness and sustainability of the reforms. The fact that, contrary
to worldwide experience, the lease contract was not renegotiated (all adjustments made were actually
provided for in the contract) gives a clear proof of sustainability.

Finally, the sustainability of the project achievements is evidenced by the strong support given by the
donors community (US$220 million) to the follow-up LTWSP, which also attracted substantial commercial
financing (US$25 million). Through the support of the WSP and LTWSP, there is no doubt that the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) will be achieved in the urban water and sanitation sector of
Senegal. The challenge remains, however, in the rural water sub-sector for which a new strategy and
action plan for MDGs is being developed under the LTWSP.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:



                                                     - 15 -

 SONES has become a lean organization, employing qualified staff under conditions distinct from the civil
service and having independent contracting authority. SONES and ONAS have proven their capacity in
preparing and implementing large investment programs in the future. SDE is a well-managed organization,
having put much effort in capacity building of its staff. It has introduced modern support systems with
respect to billing and collection, consumer registration, and maintenance and repair of the water supply
systems. In August 2001, SDE obtained ISO 2001 certification.

Good working relationships have been developed between key actors in the sector. Each party concentrates
on its responsibilities: SONES on the overall water sector development, SDE on the day to day operation of
the urban water facilities, and ONAS on developing and operating the sanitation sector. The relationship
between SONES and SDE took the shape of a genuine partnership. A comprehensive review of the
institutional and contractual arrangements has been carried out under the LTWSP and it is now agreed to
extend the lease contract for five additional years. The contract will thus be in place until 2011.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance during preparation was highly satisfactory both in terms of sectoral dialogue and
of the quality of the design of the reforms.

Building consensus. The Bank team rightly focused on building consensus on the need for reforms within
the Government and SONEES and on advising the Government with respect to maintaining a proper
balance between the institutional reform, the capacity building, the investment program and the restoration
of the financial viability of the water sector. The Bank proposed effective solutions to the legitimate
concerns of the stakeholders, e.g. by agreeing to (i) a socially acceptable sequence of tariff increases (not
more than 3 percent per year); and (ii) keeping the entire staff of the previous SONEES in the new
institutions. The Bank supported and promoted communication efforts and transparent exchanges on
reform options. The Bank also coordinated efficiently inputs from other development partners and led the
dialogue with the client. Last but not least, the Bank defused ever-lasting conflicts on major investment
decisions by staging its intervention into two phases and deferring the final choice of the technical solution
for the long-term supply of Dakar to the preparation of the LTWSP.

Quality of design. The Bank team was actually the main author and promoter of the innovative features of
the institutional, regulatory and contractual framework of the project. The review of the PSP experience in
West Africa identified critical issues, to which the team brought adequate solutions such as the
performance-based remuneration of the lease contractor, the financial involvement of the private operator in
the rehabilitation program and the use of a financial model to regulate consumer tariffs and sector
investments. The selection of a two-stage bidding procedure for selecting the private partner was also an
innovation.

Managerial support. The quality of preparation is closely linked to the scope and variety of skills in the
preparation team (the four preparation missions consisted of at least six persons).           The size of the
preparation budget (about US$600,000 of BB, without counting the trust funds) is commensurate with the
complexity and creativity of the operation. The budget reflects the level of support provided by the sector
management and the country director, who also agreed with the principle of a long-term commitment of the
Bank to the development of the water sector.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank performance during supervision was highly satisfactory.


                                                     - 16 -

Permanent interaction with the borrower. There were thirteen supervision missions in total, but this does
not reflect entirely the support provided to project implementation.        During the first three years of
execution, there were two co-task managers in charge of supervision, one in Washington and the other one
based on the field in Dakar. At Mid-Term-Review (MTR), the responsibility of supervision shifted
completely to the task manager in the country office. Having the task manager based on the field made
communication lines easier with project implementation agencies, and allowed a permanent monitoring and
dialogue while speeding-up procurement matters. Bank teams always included the necessary skills (six
team members on average) to cover the relevant supervision topics and there was a high level of continuity
in the Bank team during project preparation and supervision, thereby increasing sector knowledge and
ensuring institutional memory.

Supervision missions and reporting: Supervision missions were carried out regularly and focused on the
impact of reforms, with a particular attention given to performance indicators and to the action plan
included in the LSDP.       Missions were systematically coordinated with other development partners.
Aide-memoires, BTOs and PSRs have always been completed timely and comprehensively. The financial
model and the performance indicators listed in the SAR proved to be powerful tools for monitoring the
progress in project implementation. PSR ratings were realistic, even though there is a positive disconnect
between the last PSR ratings and the findings of the ICR.

Facilitation and flexibility. On several occasions--and particularly at the beginning of the project, when
SONES and SDE were adjusting to their contractual relations--the Bank team played the role of facilitator
between the sector partners. In addition, the Bank continuously reminded all stakeholders to comply with
their engagements, particularly the Government with regard to tariff adjustments and the payment of its
water bills. Finally, the Bank demonstrated flexibility by agreeing to a lengthy extension of the closing date
and to the reallocation of funds, which eventually strengthened the achievement of the development
objectives.

Smooth transition from the Water Sector Project to the Long Term Water Sector Project. The Long
Term Water Project was prepared under the Water Sector Project. Once the LTWSP was effective, both
projects were jointly supervised by one single Bank team with one voice to the client on all sector related
issues. There was no interruption in Bank's support to the water and sanitation sector since 1996, and this
will continue until the end of the LTWSP in 2007.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall rating of the Bank's performance is highly satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation was highly satisfactory.

The project was high on the Government's priority list for the water sector and the Government provided
strong leadership during project preparation. SONEES and DHA within MH played an active role in the
design of the reforms. Both organized a wide consultation within Senegal and ensured that the staff of
sector agencies and the public were kept abreast of the developments in the formulation of reforms.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance in implementation was highly satisfactory.




                                                   - 17 -

The Government generally complied with all its commitments as stated in the LSDP and did not interfere in
operational decisions. When compared to the regional experience, the timely approval of tariff increases
and the payment of water bills were particularly impressive. Counterpart funds were readily available.
However, the Government could have been more effective with respect to the freeze of new quotas of water
consumption for market gardeners.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing Agencies was highly satisfactory.

Effective implementation and coordination arrangements: a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), hosted in
MH, coordinated the implementation of the project and monitored progress with the implementing agencies.
The PCU performed very well; it provided frequent monitoring reports on the execution of the investment
program and on the fulfillment of the Government's commitments. The PCU prepared donors meetings and
supervision missions and ensured a permanent liaison between the project and the World Bank. It also
managed the implementation of the capacity building component on behalf of the Ministry of Hydraulics .
The project coordinator, together with the director of DHA maintained the momentum for reforms and
relayed the Bank TTL in his facilitating role after the first years of implementation.

The water assets holding company: SONES performed very well in managing the water supply component
and should be credited for the efficient procurement and execution of works.               SONES executed
satisfactorily its contractual obligations with SDE and made an efficient use of the financial model.

The urban sanitation utility: Although it took some time before ONAS reached cruising speed, the agency
later on caught up and implemented much more works than planned in the SAR. In the course of the
project ONAS developed a good standard of professionalism in the execution of the sanitation component.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall rating of the Borrower's performance is highly satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Many lessons have been learned from the Senegal water sector reform; some of them are listed below and
others may be found in the Government's contribution to the ICR (see Annex 8).

l The Senegalese model anticipated on the Bank's revisiting PSP in infrastructure by emphasizing the
    improvement in the sustainability and financial viability of services as the primary purpose of PSP.
    This model avoided the pitfalls encountered in Senegal and elsewhere by other infrastructure sectors,
    which marketed PSP essentially as a financial transaction generating both revenues from the sale of
    assets and private financing for long-term investments. The PSP option adopted for Senegal was
    tailor-made and consistent with the context of the country and the development objectives of the sector.
    However, in an environment of perceived risk, an hybrid lease contract mixing appropriate
    public/private financing as successfully experienced in Senegal, offers a pragmatic approach for many
    SSA countries.

l The Senegal water sector reform was accompanied by an optimized investment program to achieve
    planned operational improvements. In that respect, the use of a financial model at the very early
    stage--to assess the level of mixed public/private investment that would be consistent with the financial
    equilibrium of the sector and with socially acceptable tariffs increases--was a powerful tool in guiding
    the sector to financial health and sustainability.



                                                     - 18 -

l The Senegal experience points out that a good PSP option must contain properly designed performance
    incentives for the private sector as well as specific incentives to serve the poor. It also proved that
    regulation by contract can be successful if properly designed.

l The project may therefore lead to reconsider the vision of what constitutes an adequate regulatory
    framework for the water sector. Rather than focusing on the institutional aspects of regulation, with
    the creation of autonomous regulatory agencies (often multi-sectoral), which have generated more
    problems than solutions, it might be more efficient to provide the Government with regulatory
    instruments (the financial model) to determine consumer tariffs and sector investments and to rely on
    the contract to regulate the private operator. This indeed requires political commitment and a strong
    leadership of the Government, which are in any case prerequisites for the success of the reforms.

l Such a project requires substantial resources and its success is clearly contingent on a long-term Bank
    involvement in the sector. The contrast between the outcome and sustainability of the Water Sector
    Project and the ones of projects where the Bank limited its involvement to the design and the
    completion of a PSP transaction speaks for itself.

l The presence in the field of the task manager and the continuity of the Bank's preparation and
    supervision teams have been a critical factor for the success of the project as it contributed to maintain
    the momentum of reforms and consistency in the dialogue with the client.

l The project has demonstrated that a small Project Coordination Unit (only three professional staff) with
    a strong leadership is able to coordinate various executing agencies and to implement two major
    complex projects simultaneously. This has resulted in important savings in terms of operating costs
    while ensuring smooth transition and continuity in the management of the sector.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
The French Development Agency (AFD) and the German Cooperation Agency (KFW) conducted a joint
post-evaluation mission in 2004, to assess the achievements of the project. Their evaluation report is
included in the project files.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments of SDE, the Private Operator of the urban water sector (leaded by SAUR International) have
been included to the Borrower's consolidated comments attached to Annex 8.

10. Additional Information

None.




                                                   - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators Watersupply and Sanitation


                                                                Base year

                                               Unit                  1995    1996       1997    1998     1999     2000    2001     2002     2003   2004 Tot al

Physical Indicators Total Sector

  Population                                    million                                          4.21     4.41     4.42     4.6     4.74     4.88


  Number of private connections billed          number                    193,994   208,629  222,163  237,365   251,900 264,161 290,069  309,654


  Number of public standpipes billed            number                      2,628     2,867    3,031    3,223    3,250    3,443   4,258    4,179


  Total population served                       million                                          3.22     3.41     3.49    3.57     3.99     4.15


  Population served                                %                                             76%      77%      79%     78%      84%      85%

Physical Indicators Dakar Region

                                                        Forecast    2.04     2.11      2.19    2.28     2.36      2.45

  Population Dakar Region                       million Actual                2.11      2.19     2.22     2.32     2.36    2.45     2.52      2.6


                                                        Target   135,414  141,414   149,414  157,414  165,414  173,414

  Number of private connections billed - Dakar Region
                                                number Actual             138,259    147,212 152,429  157,489   161,711 166,711 179,000  185,058


                                                        Target       940    1,040     1,140    1,240    1,340    1,340

  Number of public standpipes billed - Dakar Region
                                                number Actual                 953       970    1,057     1,116    1,358   1,414   1,602    1,650


                                                        Target      1.63     1.73      1.84     1.95    2.06      2.14

  Total population served - Dakar               million Actual                1.67      1.76     1.84     1.91     2.02    2.09     2.19     2.25


                                                        Target      80%      82%       84%      86%      87%      87%

  Population served - Dakar                        %    Actual                79%       80%      83%      82%      86%     85%      87%      87%

Performance Indicators SONES

  Number of new private (social) connections            Target        n.a  4,500      6,800   6,800    6,800     6,800   2,300        0        0      0 34,000

  (BP)                                           nb/y   Actual              5,438     4,808    4,279    9,679     6,831  20,048  14,534   15,279         80,896


                                                       Target         n.a

  Number of new public standpipes                nb/y  Actual


                                                       Target        n.a.      13        20       20      20        20       7        0        0      0     100

  Pipes rehabilitated                            km/y Actual                     0         0     26.2       64       26     38       121       30     0   305.2


                                                       Target         n.a   4000      6000     6000     6000     6000    2000         0        0      0 30,000

  Connections rehabilitated                      nb/y  Actual                    0         0        0    1283     5944    6251      2131    6470         22,079

Performance Indicators SDE

                                                       Target    264,438  265,041   267,589  271,068  275,041  277,425

  Volume of water produced in the sector        m3/day Actual             269,835   263,893  263,648  265,956   291,574 294,729 306,850   311,694


                                                millionTarget     21,348  22,393     24,143  33,000    36,189   38,175

  Annual operating revenu                      FCFA/y Actual               23,216    25,287   26,770   28,923    31,753  34,291  35,912   39,383

                                                       Target 2     31.5    30.5      27.4     24.4      21.4     18.4    16.4     15.0     15.0

  Unaccounted-for Water 1                          %   Actual                 30.5      28.0     25.6     26.1     26.1    21.9     22.0     20.1


                                                       Target         95      95         96       97      97        97      97      97        97

  Wat er bill collection efficiency                %   Actual                   91        95       96       97       97     97        98


                                                       Target        n.a.      11        17       17       17       17      17       17       17      9     139

  Pipes replaced                                 km/y Actual                     5        26       12       20       16      17       16       17     9      138


                                                       Target        n.a.  4,000      6,000   6,000    6,000     6,000   6,000   6,000    6,000   3,000 49,000

  Connections replaced                           nb/y  Actual               2,094     9,368    4,564    6,842    6,620    6,046   6,584    7,613  3,600  53,331


                                                       Target        n.a.  9,000     14,000  14,000    14,000   14,000  14,000   14,000   14,000  7,000 114,000

  Wat er meters renewed                          nb/y  Actual               8,000     15,618  16,089   14,292    14,668  20,150  15,446   15,757  9,500 129,520


                                                       Target       4000   4,602      6,972   6,972    6,972     6,972   6,972   6,972    6,972   3,486 56,892

  Bacteriological tests taken                    nb/y  Actual               2,603     4,741    7,309    7,159    6,735    6,926   7,097    7,013  3,500  53,083


  Percentage of bacteriological tests in               Target                 96         96       96      96        96      96      96        96    96




                                                                                  - 20 -

Performance Indicators Water Sector Policy Letter

                                                           Target                    <22.500  <22.000   <18.000  <14.000   <14.000   <14.000   <14.000   <14.000   <14.000

   Average volume of water sold to market gardeningm3/day Actual             24,000     15,469    10,098   10,900    10,788    13,324   14,745     17,212    18,230


   Average volume of water sold to state                   Target                                                          <17.700   <17.700   <17.700   <17.700   <17.700

   agencies                                       m3/day Actual                         27,732    25,571   24,691    25,313    27,704  26,886      23,801    22,739


                                                           Target                       <4        <4        <4       <4        <4       <4         <4        <4       <4

   Government accounts receivable water bills     month Actual                                                                          4.0        5.1


                                                           Target                n.a.   <3        <3        <3       <3        <3       <3         <3        <3       <3       24
   Annual increase of average tariff in real
   terms (without market gardening)                  %     Actual                          2.6       2.8      2.7       2.5       3.9       4.1       2.4       2.9           23.9

Performance Indicators ONAS

                                                           Target                n.a.   2,000     4,000    4,000         0         0        0          0         0       0 10,000

   Number of new sewerage connections - Dakar      nb/y    Actual                            0        0         0       518       911    4,078      3,667     2,695    831  12,700


                                                           Target                 n.a       0         0    8,000     9,000    10,000

   Volume of treateded wastewater                 m3/day   Actual                                           7,397     8,219     7,260   10,164     11,397    14,466

1) Ratio of water produced minus water billed to water produced3) n.a.: not applicable

2) These values represent the target values as adjusted in 1998




                                                                                              - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
1. Institutional Capacity Building                           8.70           13.09              150
2. Urban Water Supply                                      205.30          184.75               90
3. Urban Sanitation                                         31.60           24.20               77
4. Project Preparation Fund Refinancing                      2.00             1.09              55
5. Operating cost for Coordination Unit                      0.00             0.08

Total Baseline Cost                                        247.60          223.21
 Physical Contingencies                                     24.50
 Price Contingencies                                        18.00
                          Total Project Costs              290.10          223.21
                   Total Financing Required                290.10          223.21


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           73.50            4.50         0.00         154.20        232.20
                                  (64.80)          (4.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (68.80)
2. Goods                           19.80            1.00         0.00          12.60        33.40
                                  (19.50)          (1.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (20.50)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Studies, Capacity                0.00            0.00         8.70          13.80        22.50
Building and Training
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (8.70)          (0.00)       (8.70)
5. PPF Refinancing                  0.00            0.00         2.00          0.00          2.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.00)          (0.00)       (2.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           93.30            5.50        10.70         180.60        290.10
                                  (84.30)          (5.00)      (10.70)         (0.00)      (100.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           68.20           3.42         8.09         112.71        192.42
                                  (61.38)         (3.08)       (7.28)         (0.00)       (71.74)
2. Goods                            3.70           0.00         0.00           8.27        11.97
                                   (3.70)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (3.70)



                                                - 22 -

   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   4. Studies, Capacity                    0.00               0.00              8.41             9.32             17.73
   Building and Training
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (8.41)            (0.00)           (8.41)
   5. PPF Refinancing                      0.00               0.00              1.09             0.00              1.09
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.09)            (0.00)           (1.09)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               71.90              3.42             17.59            130.30            223.21
                                          (65.08)            (3.08)           (16.78)            (0.00)           (84.94)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Institutional Capacity      6.00         2.40         3.20        4.90                    8.27       81.7      0.0     258.4
Building
2. Urban Water Supply         83.00        18.80       137.00       57.12         5.60      122.03      68.8      29.8     89.1
3. Urban Sanitation            9.00         1.90        26.80       21.83         2.37                  242.6    124.7      0.0
4. Project Preparation         2.00                                  1.09                               54.5
Fund Refinancing
TOTAL                         100.00       23.10       167.00       84.94         7.97      130.30      84.9      34.5     78.0




                                                          - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic Analysis

The economic analysis in the SAR focused on the urban water supply component of the project which
represented 83 percent of total project costs. The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the component
was estimated at 14.1 percent. The economic costs and benefits were derived from the consolidated (SDE
and SONES) financial forecasts.         Incremental financial costs (capital and O&M) were adjusted for
inflation, after deducting taxes , debt service and depreciation. Incremental benefits consisted of (i)
incremental sales adjusted for inflation; and (ii) consumer surplus estimated assuming a price elasticity of
-0.2.

An ex-post evaluation of the EIRR was carried out by using the same methodology. A comparison with
the SAR figures show that (i) the water consumption in Dakar is lower than expected, even though more
people are served than initially forecast; (ii) investment costs have been lower than expected; and (iii)
incremental O&M costs are lower than expected. Tariff revisions have been applied as agreed with the
Government since 1995. The ex-post EIRR is estimated now at 13.7 percent, which is quite similar to the
SAR estimate. The table below provides the elements of the calculation.

               Investments  Incremental              Incremental  Incremental   Consumer
                 Costs      O&M costs                consumption sales     (M surplus   (M             Net benefits (M
     Year       (MCFAF)     (M CFAF)     Sub-total     (M m3)        CFAF)       CFAF)      Sub-total      CFAF)


          1996            0        -127         -127         0.70          238          166         404           531
          1997        3,187          -87       3,100         0.42          148          303         451        -2,649
          1998       43,130         103       43,233         1.79          637          444       1,081       -42,152
          1999       16,879        -131       16,748         2.09          774          539       1,313       -15,435
          2000        3,967            4       3,971         6.45        2,460        1,714       4,174           203
          2001        5,039         939        5,978        10.70        4,143        2,886       7,029         1,051
          2002        6,745         736        7,481        12.82        5,013        3,492       8,505         1,024
          2003        5,466         736        6,202        15.21        6,065        4,225      10,290         4,088
          2004          837         736        1,573        17.69        7,241        5,044      12,285        10,712
          2005            0         736          736        20.28        8,570        5,969      14,539        13,803
          2006            0         736          736        22.97        9,884        6,884      16,768        16,032
2007 to 2025              0         736          736        22.97        9,884        6,884      16,768        16,032
Note: the negative values of the incremental O&M costs in the first years result from the reduction of the
unaccounted-for-water.

EIRR = 13.7%
NPV @ 10% = US$46.6 M
Long-term Marginal Cost = CFAF 542/m3

Results of the Financial Model

The table below provides the key results of the latest run of the financial model included in the project files.
The restoration of the financial equilibrium of the water sector was one of the main development objectives
of the project. Financial equilibrium means that the accumulated cash deficit of the sector is reduced to zero
and that the sector is likely to generate an accumulated cash surplus during subsequent years. This
objective was reached on 31 December 2003, fully in accordance with the commitment of the government
laid down in the water sector policy letter. The cash balance of SONES in December 31, 2003 was 1.3
billion FCFA, after honoring all its payment obligations, including 10 billion FCFA of debt service for the
year 2003. This accomplishment which is very satisfactory, is the result of combined efforts from all
parties concerned, notably the State, SONES (the holding company) and SDE (the private operator) to



                                                      - 24 -

implement the institutional reforms as specified in the water sector policy.

SCENARIO                              1

                                                   Scénario

        Contrôle                     0             ValeurPeen1998         239.54       Données        Lancement du PLT

        Vérif                1751795.3             Hausse du Prix Pe         0.01      Echéance          2003

        Hausse des tarifs        0.0287            Réclamation           OUI           Recours au DBF

                                                   Indémnisation SdE     OUI           Demande

SYNTHESEDESDONNEES

                                                           1997     1998  1999   2000   2001     2002  2003   2004    2005  2006   2007   2008   2009

        INVESTISSEMENTS

        Investissements du PSE                             3,381 47,129 18,997   4,599  6,017   8,295  6,910  1,092    0      0      0      0      0

        Investissements Projets hors PSE                    257     2,015 6,438  8,023  3,390   1,008   319   7,383  4,987    0      0      0      0

        Investissements hors projets                       1,753    4,249  507    642    350      730   274    683    692   702    712     723    734

        InvestissementsduPLT                                  0       0     0      0      0        0     0    31,560 23,475 5,590  4,308    0      0

                  Tot al investissements                   5,391 53,393 25,943 13,264   9,757   10,034 7,504  40,717 29,155 6,292  5,020   723    734

        TARIFSDEL'EAU

        Prix moyen du m3 d'eau

                  Prix revenant à Sones                     109      117   136    139    141      140   141    149    160    165    171    188    193

                  Prix revenant à SdE                       241     240    235    243    246      251   258    260    263   266    268     271    274

                  Prix moyen                                350     357    370    382    387      391   399    409    423   430    439     459    467

        AGREGATFINANCIERSSONES

        Chiffre d'affaires             Somme1997-2007

                  Redevance                                7,434    8,313 10,130 11,918 12,150  12,560 13,553 14,982 16,590 17,662 18,441 21,197 23,016

                  Autres produits                           367     427    590    290    188      163   143    200    200   200    200     260    539

                  Tot al                146700.9462        7,801    8,740 10,720 12,208 12,338  12,723 13,696 15,182 16,790 17,862 18,641 21,457 23,555

        Résultat                       Somme1997-2007

                  Résultat              599.5220491        -825    -3,000 -1,209 -2,026 -1,431   -487   479   1,661  2,526  1,938  2,974  4,291 5,769

        Trésorerie                     Somme1997-2007

                  Trésorerie             42216.0623        2,990    1,553 2,351  4,840  4,842   2,331  3,604  6,622  4,493  3,900  4,690  6,942 11,031

        Flux de trésorerie             Somme1997-2007

                  Flux                  1704.884978           0    -1,437  798   2,489    2     -2,511 1,278  3,018  -2,128 -594   790    2,252 4,089




                                                                                 - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/1994                   6    Sanitary Engineer (2); Private
                                             Sector Specialist (1); Financial
                                             Analyst (1) ; Consultant (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/23/1994                6    Sanitary Engineer (2);
                                             Private Sector Specialist (1);
                                             Financial Analyst (1) ;
                                             Consultant (1)
              02/24/1995                7    Sanitary Engineer (2); Private
                                             Sector Specialist (1); Financial
                                             Analyst (1) ; Water Resources
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Research Assistant (2)
              04/08/1995                6    Sanitary Engineer (2); Private
                                             Sector Specialist (2); Water
                                             Specialist (1); Financial Analyst
                                             (1)

 Supervision

              08/03/1996                1    Sanitary Engineer (1)                   U              HS
              02/18/1997                7    Private Sector Specialist (3);          S              HS
                                             Environment Specialist (1);
                                             Sanitary Engineer (2); Financial
                                             Analyst (1)
              06/23/1997               11    Water and Sanitation Specialist         S              HS
                                             (1); Private Sector Specialist (1);
                                             Sr. Sanitary Engineer (1);
                                             Sanitary Engineer (1); Urban
                                             Environment Specialist (1);
                                             Water Resources Management
                                             Specialist (1); Consultant (3);
                                             Research Assistant (2)
              03/06/1998                8    Sr. Sanitary Engineer (1);              S              HS
                                             Sanitary Engineer (2); Private
                                             Sector Specialist (1); Consultant
                                             (3); Program Assistant (1)
              12/14/1998                7    Team Leader (1); Sanitary               S              HS
                                             Engineer (2); Private Sector
                                             Specialist (1); Urban Specialist
                                             (1); Consultant (1); Program
                                             Assistant (1)
              04/28/2000                4    Team Leader (1); Sanitary               S              HS
                                             Engineer (2); Private Sector
                                             Specialist (1)



                                              - 26 -

               05/31/2001              7    Team Leader (1); Lead Water          S    S
                                            and Sanitation Specialist (1); Sr.
                                            Water and Sanitation Specialist
                                            (1); Procurement Specialist (1);
                                            Urban Specialist (1); Financial
                                            Management Specialist (1);
                                            Program Assistant (1)
               01/28/2002              8    Team Leader (1); Lead Water          S    S
                                            and Sanitation Specialist (1);
                                            Private Sector Specialist (1);
                                            Environmental Specialist (1);
                                            Procurement Specialist (1);
                                            Urban Specialist (1); Consultant
                                            (2)
               07/29/2002              2    Team Leader (1); Lead Water          S    S
                                            and Sanitation Specialist (1)
               12/11/2002              6    Team Leader (1); Sr. Sanitary        S    S
                                            Engineer (1); Private Sector
                                            Specialist (1); Financial
                                            Management Specialist (1);
                                            Procurement Specialist (1); Team
                                            Assistant (1)
               05/19/2003              6    Team Leader (1); Lead Water          S    S
                                            and Sanitation Specialist (1); Sr.
                                            Water and Sanitation Specialist
                                            (1) Private Sector Specialist (1);
                                            Financial Management Specialist
                                            (1); Procurement Specialist (1)
               12/19/2003              1    Sr. Sanitary Engineer (1)            S    S
               01/30/2004              6    Team Leader (1); Private Sector      S    S
                                            Specialist (1); Financial Analyst
                                            (1); Procurement Specialist (1);
                                            Sanitary Engineer (1); Team
                                            Assistant (1)

 ICR
               05/2004                1     Consultant                           S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            80.8                              148.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                194.5                              449.5
  Supervision                          257.2                              611.0
  ICR                                     2.0                               8.3
  Total                                534.5                           1,217.5




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Water Sector Project; Staff Appraisal Report; June 12, 1995

2.   Development Credit Agreement No. 2758-SN; December 12, 1995

3.   Accord de Rétrocession entre le Gouvernement du Sénégal et la Société Nationale des Eaux du
     Sénégal; 20 Avril 1996

4.   Contrat d'Affermage du Service Public de la Production et de la Distribution d'Eau Potable; 1995

5.   Arrête portant création et fonctionnement du Comité Technique de l'Eau; Décembre 1998

6.   Arrête instituant la Cellule de Gestion du Lac de Guiers; Décembre 2002

7.   Arrête No. 000328 portant révision des tarifs d'eau; Janvier 2003

8.   Requête pour la révision du crédit IDA 2758-SN

9.   Projet Sectoriel Eau Dakar III ; Evaluation ex post ; BMZ/AFD ; Juillet 2003

10.  Financial model of the urban water sector - Note sur les résultats de la simulation du modèle
     financier de la SONES; Ernst & Young; Décembre 2003

11.  Mission Aide Mémoires

12.  Progress Reports PCU

13.  Project Status Reports Project P002346

14   Innovative Contracts, Sound Relationships: Urban Water Sector Reform in Senegal; Clarissa
     Brocklehurst and Jan G. Janssens; January 2004

15.  PSP - Lessons learned from Senegal and Niger cases - Matar Fall, March 2004

16.  Various presentations on the Senegal water reform made by the project team, the Borrower and
     SDE (the private operator of the urban water sector).




                                                - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Private Sector's comments

                                            PROJET SECTORIEL EAU

                                          RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT

                                    PARTIE REDIGEE PAR L'EMPRUNTEUR

PREFACE: Le Projet Sectoriel Eau a été lancé en 1996, dans le cadre de la réforme institutionnelle du secteur de
l'hydraulique urbaine et de l'assainissement qui a abouti à la création de la SONES, de la SDE et de l'ONAS.

I.        DESCRIPTION ET DEMARRAGE DU PROJET

1.1       Historique :

          1.1.1 - Contexte politique

En 1995, le Sénégal était l'un des rares pays d'Afrique sub-saharienne à vivre dans un régime démocratique
marquée par la pluralité des partis politiques, l'organisation d'élections régulières et la liberté de la presse. Un
gouvernement de majorité élargie venait d'être mis en place à la suite des élections présidentielles de 1993 dans
lequel l'opposition siégeait.

          1.1.2 -Situation économique et sociale

Au milieu des années 1980, il y avait 21 établissements publics, 7 sociétés nationales et 59 sociétés d'économie
mixte. Ces entreprises para-étatiques opéraient entre autres dans les secteurs des télécommunications, de
l'électricité et de l'eau. Près de la moitié de ces entreprises étaient en faillite et les subventions qui leur étaient
accordées par l'Etat n'avaient cessé d'augmenter. En 1995, la Banque Mondiale estimait que les subventions
d'exploitation aux entreprises d'Etat représentaient environ 40% du budget de l'éducation, et plus de 150% du
budget de la santé. Confronté à une crise de liquidité et à la récente dévaluation du F CFA qui avait perdu 50 % de
sa valeur en janvier 1994, le Gouvernement se fixa pour objectif de mettre fin aux subventions aux entreprises
para-étatiques, d'améliorer leur efficacité, et de les préparer pour la privatisation ­ ce qui constitua un tournant
important dans la politique suivie jusqu'alors.

La réforme se faisait sentir de manière urgente, si bien que la réussite d'une transaction à haute visibilité était
nécessaire pour sortir de l'impasse.

          1.1.3 - Situation et problèmes majeurs

Après les indépendances et jusqu'en 1971, la Compagnie Générale des Eaux du Sénégal a assuré le service public
de l'hydraulique urbaine et de l'assainissement sous le régime de l'affermage.

En 1971, la Compagnie Générale des Eaux a cédé la concession du service public de l'eau à la Société Nationale
d'Exploitation des Eaux du Sénégal (SONEES). Vingt ans plus tard, la SONEES était confrontée à beaucoup de
difficultés.

La capitale Dakar faisait face à un déficit d'alimentation en eau potable persistant de plus de dix ans qui culminait
à 100.000 m3/jour en pointe. A cette époque, Dakar était alimentée principalement par des eaux souterraines dont
certaines présentaient des problèmes de qualité dus à l'intrusion saline.

Le renforcement de l'approvisionnement en eau avec des eaux de surface situées au lac de Guiers à 240 kms était
très coûteux.

En effet, les besoins d'investissement immédiats étaient estimés à 100 millions de dollars US pour seulement
augmenter la capacité de production de 25 % et transporter l'eau jusqu'à Dakar sans compter les coûts liés à la



                                                        - 31 -

réhabilitation, à l'extension et au renforcement des réseaux de distribution d'eau.

L'Administration qui représentait 30 % des revenus du secteur ne payait pas ses factures d'eau à bonne date, ce qui
occasionnait de nombreuses difficultés de trésorerie à la SONEES.

De plus, le prix moyen de l'eau vendu aux consommateurs était très élevé avec un niveau de 351,27 F CFA/m3
hors taxes (équivalent à 0,65 $ en 1996).

1.1.4     Cadre institutionnel

En 1995, le cadre institutionnel était marquée par les acteurs suivants :

-         La Direction de l'Hydraulique et de l'Assainissement du Ministère de l'Hydraulique assurant la tutelle de
la SONEES et la maîtrise d'ouvrage de l'assainissement urbain et de l'hydraulique rurale
-         La Direction de l'Entretien et de la Maintenance du Ministère de l'Hydraulique assurant le suivi des
forages motorisés en milieu rural
-         Le Service de Gestion et de Planification des Ressources en Eau
-         La Société Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du Sénégal (SONEES) ayant en charge la concession du
service public de l'hydraulique urbaine et l'exploitation des ouvrages d'assainissement
-         La Mission d'Etudes et d'Aménagement du Canal du Cayor
-         La Mission d'Etudes et d'Aménagement des Vallées Fossiles

1.2       Objectifs du projet

          1.2.1 - Objectifs à long terme

Les objectifs généraux de développement de ce projet visaient :

(a)       la restauration de la viabilité financière du secteur, par l'amélioration de la gestion, de la tarification et le
recouvrement des coûts, ainsi que par la réduction des subventions de l'état pour l'eau à usage industriel,
domestique et d'irrigation ;
(b)       la réduction de la pauvreté et l'amélioration de la santé des populations, par l'amélioration de l'accès à
l'eau potable et à l'assainissement dans les zones défavorisées des centres urbains ;
(c)       la participation du secteur privé, par l'implication d'un opérateur privé dans la gestion du sous-secteur de
l'hydraulique urbaine.

Ces objectifs se sont traduits par la réforme institutionnelle de 1995 qui a conduit à scinder l'ex-SONEES en trois
entités :

R         La Société Nationale des Eaux du Sénégal (SONES) créée en avril 1995 est chargée de la gestion du
patrimoine de l'hydraulique urbaine, du paiement du service de la dette, de la maîtrise d'ouvrage des
investissements, du contrôle de la qualité de l'exploitation et de la sensibilisation du public.

R         La Sénégalaise Des Eaux (SDE) opérationnelle depuis avril 1996 est une société privée liée à l'Etat par un
contrat d'affermage. Elle est chargée de l'exploitation des installations en milieu urbain, de l'entretien de
l'infrastructure et du matériel d'exploitation, du renouvellement du matériel d'exploitation ainsi que d'une partie
du réseau de distribution d'eau potable. Elle s'occupe également du recouvrement des factures d'eau.

R         L'Office National de l'Assainissement du Sénégal (ONAS) est chargé de la maîtrise d'ouvrage des
travaux d'assainissement ainsi que de l'exploitation et de la maintenance des ouvrages d'assainissement en milieu
urbain.

1.2.2     - Objectifs à court terme




                                                         - 32 -

-        Améliorer la gestion du secteur de l'eau, en particulier le recouvrement des coûts relatif au sous secteur
de l'hydraulique urbaine et réduire sa dépendance vis à vis du Budget de l'Etat afin d'assurer sa viabilité
financière;
-        Réduire le déficit de l'alimentation en eau de la région de Dakar et améliorer l'accès à l'eau potable et à
l'assainissement dans les zones défavorisées des centres urbains ;
-        Assurer une meilleure adéquation entre besoins et ressources en eau, définir une stratégie globale et
cohérente de gestion de ces ressources ;
-        Renforcer le sous secteur de l'assainissement urbain en vue de combler son retard par rapport au
sous-secteur de l'hydraulique urbaine.
         1.3       Composantes du projet

                   1.3.1 Objectifs de chaque composante et résultats attendus

Le Projet Sectoriel Eau comprend trois composantes qui se présentent comme suit :

- Composante A :Renforcement des capacités institutionnelles

Cette composante était constituée de trois sous-composantes :

(a)      la gestion des ressources en eau, assistance au ministère de l'Hydraulique et au SGPRE dans la
préparation d'une stratégie nationale de gestion des ressources en Eau ;
(b)      l'eau potable, afin d'augmenter la disponibilité d'eau potable, le projet soutiendrait la SONES dans la
gestion de la politique sectorielle ; et
(c)      l'assainissement : afin d'améliorer le service d'assainissement, le projet soutiendrait l'ONAS, organisme
nouvellement créé, dans la formulation d'une stratégie nationale d'assainissement dans les zones urbaines et
périurbaines.

- Composante B :Approvisionnement en eau de la région de Dakar

Cette composante était aussi constituée de trois sous-composantes :

(a)      la production d'eau potable : afin d'accroître la production d'eau potable pour Dakar et ses zones
périurbaines, le projet se chargerait de réhabiliter et d'augmenter les infrastructures de production et de transport
d'eau et d'optimiser les réseaux d'approvisionnement en eau par le moyen d'un système de télégestion ;
(b)      la distribution d'eau potable : afin d'améliorer et d'étendre la distribution d'eau en zones urbaines, le
projet se focaliserait sur la réhabilitation et l'extension du réseau de distribution ainsi que l'installation de
branchements sociaux, pour les ménages à faible revenu, et de bornes fontaines ; et
(c)      le support logistique : le projet fournirait un support en termes de services ingénieur-conseil en ce qui
concerne les études, la préparation des documents d'appel d'offres, la supervision des travaux et les études de
l'impact environnemental des besoins en eau à long terme à Dakar.

- Composante C : Assainissement Urbain

Cette composante envisageait d'accroître les raccordements au système d'égouts existant dans Dakar, de traiter et
de réutiliser les eaux usées dans les zones périurbaines pour l'irrigation, de préparer des plans directeurs
d'assainissement dans dix-neuf villes secondaires, de mettre en oeuvre un projet de drainage des eaux pluviales
dans la ville de Saint-Louis, et de mettre en oeuvre le projet d'assainissement de la ville de Rufisque.

1.3      Organisation et réalisation du projet au sein du ministère de tutelle, et des autres ministères et agences
impliqués dans l'exécution du projet.
Les agences d'exécution du projet sont les suivantes :

R        La Société Nationale des Eaux du Sénégal (SONES) chargée de la composante `Alimentation en eau



                                                           - 33 -

potable'.
R        L'Office National de l'Assainissement du Sénégal (ONAS) chargé de la composante `Assainissement `
R        Le Service de Gestion et de Planification des Ressources en Eau (SGPRE) chargé de la composante
`Gestion des ressources en eau'.
R        La Cellule de Coordination créée au sein du Ministère de l'Hydraulique par arrêté n° 1035 du 25 février
1997 chargée d'assurer la coordination générale du projet entre le Gouvernement du Sénégal, les agences
d'exécution et les bailleurs de fonds ainsi que de la mise en oeuvre de la composante `Renforcement des
capacités'.

II.      CONCEPTION, EXECUTION, REALISATION ET IMPACT DU PROJET

         2.1      Evaluation de la conception du projet

La conception du projet est jugée très satisfaisante par le Gouvernement. En effet, le programme d'investissements
qui accompagne la réforme est jugé fondamental pour assurer le succès de celle-ci surtout auprès des populations
les plus pauvres qui ont pu accéder à de meilleurs services d'eau et d'assainissement.

         2.2      Principaux résultats obtenus dans chacune des composantes du projet

Composante A : Renforcement des capacités institutionnelles

§        Etude bathymétrique et limnologique du « Lac de Guiers » ;
§        Appui aux services hydrologiques nationaux et Développement d'un Système d'Information Géographique
;
§        Etude hydrogéologique de la nappe aquifère profonde Maestrichtienne ;
§        Appui Institutionnel pour la SONES (Achat d'ordinateurs, études tarifaires, gestion financière, modèle
financier, inventaire du patrimoine etc.) ;
§        Appui Institutionnel pour l'ONAS (Définition d'une stratégie nationale d'assainissement, Système de
gestion administrative et financière informatisé, inventaire des actifs du secteur de l'assainissement, étude de
schéma directeur d'informatisation et achat d'ordinateurs et de logiciels, études tarifaires etc...
§        Renforcement des Capacités (3.900 jours de formation pour 132 personnes (dont 32 pour la SONES, 63
pour l'ONAS et 46 pour MH/SGPRE)

Composante B : Approvisionnement en eau de la région de Dakar

§        Réhabilitation de l'usine de Ngnith (+24.000 m3/j)
§        Réalisation de 11 forages dans le Littoral Nord (+35.000 m3/j)
§        + 25 % d'augmentation de la production d'eau pour Dakar depuis octobre 1999
§        Réalisation de 89.000 branchements sociaux dans les quartiers pauvres au lieu de 34.000 ;
§        Réalisation de 400 bornes fontaines ;
§        970.000 personnes supplémentaires bénéficiaires de services améliorés d'alimentation en eau potable au
lieu de 450.000.
§        Gain de 12 points sur le rendement de réseau soit une économie de 12 millions de m3 par an grâce à la
réhabilitation par la SONES et la SDE (1996 à 2003) de 315 kms de réseau de diamètre de 100 mm équivalent
fonte, 74.000 branchements privés d'eau potable, de 120.000 compteurs d'eau, des matériels électromécaniques
d'une valeur inférieure à 15 millions CFA.
Composante C : Assainissement Urbain

§        13.000 branchements sociaux à l'égout au lieu de 10.000 prévus initialement ;
§        + 55 km d'extensions de réseaux ;
§        30.000 personnes supplémentaires bénéficiaires de branchements à l'égout.
§        Réhabilitation de l'usine de traitement d'eaux usées de Cambéréne et ajout d'unité de traitement tertiaire
de 5.000 m3/jour vendue en partie au Golf de Dakar,
§        Réalisation de l'assainissement des eaux usées de Rufisque avec la construction d'une station d'épuration


                                                        - 34 -

§        Réalisation de l'assainissement des eaux pluviales de Saint Louis
§        Réalisation de plans directeurs d'assainissement pour 17 villes de l'intérieur.


         2.3       Coordination et gestion du projet

                   2.3.1-   Responsabilités du coordinateur

·        Coordination au jour le jour des activités du projet et des composantes mises en oeuvre par les
différentes agences d'exécution ;
·        Coordination des relations avec les bailleurs de fonds et suivi des conventions de financement ;
·        Suivi technique et financier des deux projets ;
·        Suivi régulier des engagements pris par le Gouvernement dans le cadre des accords de projet à travers
chaque agence d'exécution ;
·        Préparation des budgets annuels des projets et suivis de leur exécution au niveau des agences d'exécution
;
·        Préparation des différents ateliers prévus dans le projet et participation à leur réalisation ;
·        Suivi de l'évolution des indicateurs de performance avec chaque agence d'exécution concernée ;
·        Préparation d'un rapport de synthèse semestriel d'avancement contenant notamment les renseignements
sur l'avancement du projet, les recommandations sur les actions à entreprendre, le bilan financier, et l'évolution
des indicateurs de suivi ;

·        Suivi des activités de toutes les composantes sur le terrain ;
·        Préparation des réunions des bailleurs de fonds et des différentes missions d'évaluation et de supervision ;
·        Centralisation et coordination des besoins de formation et de renforcement des capacités du personnel des
projets et des agences d'exécution ;
·        Coordination des activités de communications et d'informations des projets.


         2.3.2 Relations entre le coordinateur du projet et les décideurs politiques (toutes les entités concernées)

Ces relations se sont révélées très bonnes au cours de la mise en oeuvre du projet. Compte tenu des liens étroits
entre le projet et la mise en oeuvre de la réforme du secteur, le coordinateur du projet a joué un rôle de plus en plus
important au-delà de ses termes de référence. Ainsi, il été désigné Conseiller technique du Ministre de
l'Hydraulique, conciliateur en 1998 dans le cadre du règlement des conflits entre la SONES et la SDE, membre du
Comité de suivi du contrat de concession et du contrat d'affermage. Il a également eu à jouer un rôle important de
coordination dans la préparation du Projet Eau à long terme (1997-1999). Il a notamment cumulé la coordination
du PSE et du PLT au cours de la période 2001 à 2004. Le coordinateur a eu également d'excellentes relations avec
le Directeur de l'Hydraulique et de l'assainissement et a appuyé ce dernier notamment dans la préparation du
projet eu à long Terme.

         2.3.3 Relations entre le coordinateur du projet et les responsables des composantes

  Ces relations sont jugées excellentes. Les agences d'exécution ont bien compris et acceptées le rôle de la Cellule
  qui n'était pas là pour se substituer à eux mais pour les appuyer et renforcer leurs capacités pour assurer la bonne
  exécution du projet et la réussite de la réforme institutionnelle.

   2.3.4 Leçons à tirer

  La cellule de coordination constituée uniquement d'un coordonnateur (Expert `eau et assainissement'), d'un
  gestionnaire financier et comptable, et d'une assistante s'est révélée très efficace dans la coordination générale
  du projet, la coordination des bailleurs de fonds, la fourniture des rapports techniques, la mise en place d'un
  système de suivi-évaluation des indicateurs de performance, la gestion financière. Les audits ont été toujours
  fournis à temps. Il est à noter qu'aucun des 9 rapports d'audit n'a fait l'objet de réserves des auditeurs et le



                                                         - 35 -

  compte spécial du projet a été très bien tenu.

2.4      Impact du projet dans la mise en oeuvre de la politique nationale sur             l'allégement de la pauvreté
et de la protection sociale
Le programme a permis d'augmenter l'accès à l'eau potable des populations pauvres des zones urbaines. A travers
l'extension des réseaux (400 kms supplémentaires) et la réalisation de 89.000 nouveaux branchements sociaux (soit
presque le triple des 34.000 initialement prévus) et 400 bornes fontaines, il est estimé que plus d'un million de
personnes supplémentaires en milieu urbain ont été desservies par le système d'approvisionnement en eau

De manière générale, il y a eu une augmentation sensible du nombre de clients facturés par la SDE qui est passé de
241.671 en 1996 à 362.228 en 2003, augmentant ainsi de près de 50 %.

Dans la région de Dakar, le nombre de branchements d'eau privés est passé de 135.414 en 1995 à 181.824 à fin
2003 (augmentation de 35 %). Pendant la même période, le nombre de bornes fontaines à Dakar a progressé de
5%, allant de 940 en 1995 à 1.424 à fin 2003. Une récente enquête a montré que ce sont les populations les plus
pauvres de la région de Dakar qui ont principalement bénéficié du programme de branchements sociaux. En effet,
dans les zones défavorisées de Dakar, le taux d'accès à l'eau potable par des branchements domiciliaires est de 74
% et est comparable au taux observé dans les zones plus aisées.

Une nouvelle grille tarifaire a été conçue et mise en oeuvre en 2003. Elle comprend trois tranches de
consommations des abonnés domestiques par bimestre (de 0 à 20 m3, de 20 à 40 m3 et au-delà de 100 m3). Le
principe de la subvention des consommations des plus pauvres a été maintenu à travers une tranche sociale de 20
m3 par bimestre. Les consommations dans cette tranche sociale sont facturées à 191 F CFA/m3 (0,36 $/ m3), alors
que le prix moyen de l'eau en 2003 est de 433,56 F CFA/m3 (0,86 $/m3). La subvention de la tranche sociale est
ainsi particulièrement élevée : elle équivaut à 60% du prix moyen de l'eau. Le Ministère des Finances, pour
diminuer l'impact des tarifs sur les pauvres, a également décidé d'exonérer les tranches de 0 à 40 m3 de la Taxe
sur la Valeur Ajoutée qui est de 18 %.

Afin de préserver l'équilibre financier du secteur, un mécanisme de subventions croisées est mis en place à travers
la grille tarifaire. Pour couvrir le déficit de recettes généré par la tranche sociale, les gros consommateurs
domestiques et les abonnés non domestiques (industries, administrations etc.) paient l'eau dans une tranche unique
égale à la tranche dissuasive (788,67 FCFA/ m3 au delà de 40 m3 par bimestre).

En 2002, le montant total de cette subvention en faveur des pauvres s'est élevé à 8,5 milliards de F CFA : il a
doublé depuis 1996.

III.     ANALYSE CRITIQUE DE L'ACTION DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE, DU GOUVERNEMENT
         ET DE L'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE

3.1      Appréciation de l'action de la Banque mondiale au cours de l'exécution du projet
         3.1.1 - Principales décisions ayant favorisé l'exécution du projet

         - La signature de l'accord de crédit en décembre 1995 du Projet Sectoriel Eau avant le choix définitif de
         l'opérateur privé a été un signal fort vers les autres co-financiers et le secteur privé

         - La réalisation régulière des missions de supervision a favorisé les concertations régulières et a permis de
         rappeler aux parties prenantes leurs obligations

         - La nomination d'un chef de projet basé à la Mission résidante de la banque Mondiale à Dakar a facilité
         l'obtention des non-objections, le suivi des dossiers et le dialogue permanent avec le gouvernement sur les
         questions majeures

         - La décision de financer le projet eau à long terme avant l'échéance fixée a permis de consolider les
         acquis de la réforme en permettant notamment de sécuriser l'alimentation en eau de Dakar jusqu'en 2015
         et d'accroître le volume des investissements dans le sous secteur de l'assainissement



                                                         - 36 -

         - la décision de réduire la participation des populations aux branchements sociaux à l'égout (fixée
         initialement à 100.000 F CFA) a permis d'accélérer la mise en oeuvre de ce volet qui stagnait en dépit des
         campagnes de communication et de sensibilisation réalisés par l'ONAS

         3.1. 2.- Principales décisions ayant freiné l'exécution du projet

         - Néant

         3.1.3. - Suivi du projet par la Banque mondiale:

                  Changements de responsables

L'équipe de la Banque a été relativement stable. Le changement du Task Team Leader initial (Jan G. Janssens) par
Matar Fall n'a pas d'effets négatifs sur la conduite du projet. Au contraire, il a permis de rapprocher le centre
décisionnel de la Banque du terrain de mise en oeuvre et renforcé le dialogue et la compréhension avec les acteurs.

                  Missions de suivi et de consultations

Ces misions ont été régulières et très utiles. Elles ont amélioré la coordination avec les autres bailleurs de fonds et
le Gouvernement. Elles ont été menées de façon consensuelle et participative de sorte que le Ministère des Finances
a co-signé toutes les aides mémoires de la Banque et qu'aucune divergence notoire d'interprétation n'a été notée
entre la banque et le Gouvernement sur l'avancée du projet et les résultats de la réforme.

          3.1.4 - Principales leçons à tirer

L'intérêt constant manifesté par la banque et le suivi ont été des facteurs de succès du projet et de la réforme. La
Banque a accepté de réaffecter rapidement les reliquats du projet sur d'autres composantes, ce qui a permis de
dépasser les objectifs de branchements sociaux à l'eau et à l'égout. La banque s'est montrée flexible et a compris
les explications du Gouvernement sur l'application de la nouvelle grille tarifaire prévue initialement en 1998 et qui
n'a été effective qu'en 2003.

La présence du Task team Leader à la Mission résidente à Dakar a été déterminante dans la réussite du projet et la
mise en oeuvre du financement de l'IDA.

3.2      Appréciation de l'action du Gouvernement au cours de l'exécution du projet:

         3.2.1 Principales décisions ayant favorisé l'exécution du projet

§        Le Gouvernement a respecté le plan d'actions pour le paiement à bonne date de ses factures
§        Le Gouvernement a ajusté régulièrement les tarifs de l'eau pour assurer l'équilibre financier de la SONES
§        Le Gouvernement a respecté l'autonomie décisionnelle de la SONES et ne s'est pas impliqué dans les
procédures internes de passation des marchés de la SONES ni dans sa gestion financière
§        Le gouvernement a accordé à l'ONAS une dérogation sur les procédures de passation des marchés pour
lui permettre de disposer d'une commission interne de passation des marchés à l'instar de la SONES
§        Le Gouvernement a rétrocédé les forages de Beer Tiélane aux maraîchers pour réduire l'impact des
consommations d'eau des marrai^chers sur les résultats financiers de la Sones
§        Le Gouvernement a accepté de ne pas considérer la relation entre SONES et SDE comme une relation
commerciale et a renoncé au paiement de la redevance versée par la SDE à la SONES et a renoncé à faire
supporter la TVA sur ces transactions entre la SONES et la SDE
         3.2.2. Principales décisions (ou absence de prise de décisions) ayant freiné l'exécution du projet

         - Néant




                                                         - 37 -

         3.2.3. Difficultés de la trésorerie et de la contrepartie du Gouvernement

Aucune difficulté n'a été notée sur ce plan. Les frais de contrepartie qui portaient notamment sur les travaux et
équipements de l'ONAS financées par l'IDA ont été payés régulièrement.

         3.2.4. Suivi du projet au niveau du ministère de tutelle et ou de l'agence d'exécution

Ce suivi est jugé très satisfaisante eu égard aux performances de la Cellule de coordination et aux bonnes relations
tissées avec le Ministère

         3.2.5. Changement(s) de Gouvernement, s'il y a lieu, et conséquences sur le suivi du projet

Les différents changements de Ministres ou de tutelle ministérielle n'ont pas eu d'impacts négatifs sur le projet.
Les Gouvernements successifs ont respecté les engagements notamment sur les ajustements tarifaires annuels.

         3.2.6. Principales leçons à tirer

Une bonne appropriation par le Gouvernement de la réforme et du projet notamment au niveau du ministère des
Finances ont assuré la continuité des engagements des engagements notamment en ce qui concerne le paiement des
factures des administrations et la résolution du problème de la TVA. Le Gouvernement a considéré cette réforme
comme la sienne et le premier Partenariat Public privé et a tout fait pour lui assurer un total succès en laissant aux
acteurs l'autonomie requise et en veillant au respect de ses engagements.

3.3      Evaluation de l'efficacité et de la qualité des relations entre la Banque mondiale et le Gouvernement
durant l'exécution du projet.

Ces relations ont marquées par la confiance réciproque et la volonté de réussir la réforme et le projet cités comme
exemples de réussite dans la sous-région. Des concertations régulières et des contacts permanents sur toutes les
questions ont permis de surmonter toutes les difficultés qui auraient pu empêcher le succès du projet.

3.4      Evaluation des performances des différentes institutions, bureaux d'études et consultants ayant participé à
la réalisation du projet (coûts, bénéfices).
De manière générale, grâce aux méthodes rigoureuses de sélection en deux étapes, les bureaux d'études ont fait un
travail satisfaisant. Il est à noter l'implication importante des bureaux d'études nationaux dans la supervision des
travaux de la composante `Distribution ` de la SONES.

Les entreprises locales ont eu pour la première fois à la SONES des parts de marchés importantes sur la
composante `Distribution ` de la SONES. Il y a lieu toutefois de noter la contre performance de deux à trois d'entre
elles.

IV.      EVALUATION ECONOMIQUE ET FINANCIERE DU PROJET

4.1      Coût total du projet :

         4.1.1 - Prévisions de départ et coûts réels pour les différentes composantes et catégories de dépenses du
                   projet

Le coût total du projet, selon les estimations du SAR était de 290 millions $ US ou 142,3 milliards FCFA (taux
d'échange 1995 : 1 $ = 535 FCFA). Les coûts totaux du projet ont été réduits à 118.1 milliards FCFA parce que les
coûts réels d'investissement étaient considérablement inférieurs à ce qui était estimé dans le SAR du fait
notamment des gains substantiels (-30%) après les appels d'offres.

         4.1.2 - Valeur et niveau de recouvrement de la contrepartie du Gouvernement




                                                          - 38 -

La contrepartie payée par le Gouvernement a été de 1.4 milliards F CFA et a été entièrement recouvrée.

4.2       Coûts récurrents engendrés par le projet et ayant un impact sur le budget de l'Etat

Le projet n'a pas engendré de coûts récurrents qui impactent les fiances publiques. Pour l'eau potable, les sociétés
issues d e la réforme (SONES et SDE) ont atteint leur équilibre financier et assurant leurs coûts récurrents par les
revenus du secteur. Il en est de même de l'ONAS qui ne reçoit aucune subvention du Gouvernement pour son
fonctionnement. Les coûts engendrés par l'Unité de coordination sont attachés au projet et disparaissent avec la
clôture du projet.

4.3       Conséquences prévisibles de la fin du projet sur les structures institutionnelles          mises en place dans le
cadre du projet

La SONES a atteint l'équilibre financier en 2003 comme prévu grâce au modèle d'équilibre financier mis en place
dès le début de la réforme et qui s'est avéré être un puissant outil pour la gestion financière du secteur et la prise de
décisions pour les augmentations tarifaires et le financement des investissements.

La SONES honore actuellement toutes ses obligations financières, y compris le service de la dette du secteur auprès
des bailleurs de fonds qui a représenté 10 milliards de F CFA en 2003 (81% du chiffre d'affaires annuel de la
SONES).

La SDE est rémunérée sur la base d'un prix exploitant qui est passé de 236 F CFA par m3 en 1996 à 257 F CFA
(57% du tarif moyen) en 2003, soit une augmentation de 8,9 %. La SDE a atteint son équilibre financier dès 1999.

L'ONAS dont le chiffre d'affaires en 2003 était de 2,6 milliards de F CFA (soit 6,7 % des revenus de l'ensemble
du secteur) fait face à ses dépenses courantes d'exploitation et de renouvellement des équipements dont la durée de
vie ne dépasse pas 15 ans.

La fin du projet n'aura donc aucun impact négatif sur ces institutions car le projet a permis de leur assurer une
viabilité financière au cours de sa réalisation.

4.4       Principales leçons à tirer

1) La volonté politique de l'Etat est décisive pour la réussite de la réforme et la mise en place de mécanismes
favorables aux plus pauvres dans le secteur de l'eau et de l'assainissement. Le Gouvernement du Sénégal a été au
coeur de la réussite du processus en (i) pilotant de façon transparente le processus de réforme qui a conduit au choix
de l'opérateur privé (ii) en coordonnant de manière efficace les bailleurs de fonds du secteur pour financer le PSE,
(iii) en réajustant périodiquement de 1995 à 2003 à un taux de 3 % en moyenne par an les tarifs de l'eau (iv) en
payant ses factures à bonne date et (v) en mettant en place un mécanisme de subvention partielle des
investissements rétrocédés à la SONES sous forme de participation au capital de la société.

2) La clé du succès de toute réforme est la maîtrise du programme d'investissements pour accompagner les
changements institutionnels. A cet égard, le financement du Projet Sectoriel Eau par plusieurs bailleurs de fonds à
des taux concessionnels et les mécanismes de rétrocession d'une partie de ces prêts à la SONES ont été des facteurs
déterminants dans le succès de la réforme au Sénégal.

3) Une stratégie de communication efficace a permis aux populations et aux diverses parties prenantes (Parlement,
syndicats, associations de consommateurs, collectivités locales) de comprendre les enjeux de la réforme et d'y
adhérer. Les augmentations tarifaires annuelles de 3 % des factures d'eau ont été acceptées par les consommateurs.
La décision de subventionner le programme de branchements sociaux à l'eau et à l'assainissement a été salutaire à
cet égard.

4) Le contrat de performances entre la SONES et la SDE a permis de respecter les principaux indicateurs du
secteur. A cet égard, la SDE qui, , en 2002, a été certifié ISO 9001 version 2000 a permis au secteur de l'eau de


                                                         - 39 -

gagner en performances tant sur la qualité de l'eau que sur les rendements de réseau et le taux de recouvrement des
factures.

5) La SONES s'est révélée être une société de patrimoine crédible qui a pu mettre en oeuvre les investissements
dans les délais et à des coûts généralement inférieurs de 30% aux prévisions. Elle a atteint un équilibre de
trésorerie au 31 décembre 2003 telle que prévue et fait face à toutes ses obligations en matière de remboursement
du service de la dette

6) La mise en place d'une Cellule de coordination légère et efficace s'appuyant sur les agences d'exécution est à
saluer.

7) La nomination d'un chef de projet basé à la Mission résidante de la banque Mondiale à Dakar a facilité
l'exécution du projet

V.       PERSPECTIVES POUR LE FUTUR POUR LA PERENNISATION DES ACQUIS

Grâce aux bons résultats du PSE, les bailleurs de fonds ont rapidement accepté dès 1998/1999 de financer un autre
projet (le PLT) surtout pour consolider les acquis de la réforme et s'assurer qu'aucun déficit de l'alimentation en
eau potable de Dakar ne vienne les remettre en cause notamment en termes d'équilibre financier du secteur et
d'accès des plus pauvres à la ressource en eau.

Les options de réforme de seconde génération (à partir de 2006) ont été étudiées et soumises à temps à la décision
du Gouvernement. Les options proposées devraient participer à la consolidation et au renforcement des acquis.
La réforme et les projets d'investissement qui l'ont accompagnée constituent un pas important vers la réalisation
des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le Développement. Dans le cadre du PLT, le Gouvernement est entrain d'élaborer
une nouvelle stratégie basée sur une approche sectorielle incluant le rural et l'urbain.

Cette approche devrait aboutir à une meilleure coordination de l'intervention des bailleurs de fonds du secteur, la
définition d'une nouvelle politique sectorielle selon un programme unique d'investissements à l'horizon 2015 et un
cadre de dépenses à moyen terme (2006-2010).

Les objectifs visés pour l'hydraulique urbaine sont la sécurisation de l'alimentation en eau de Dakar et l'atteinte
d'un taux d'accès à l'eau potable dans tous les centres urbains de 95 % en 2015 et de 100 % en 2020.

L'objectif visé, à l'horizon 2015 en assainissement urbain, est un taux de 80 %.




                                                        - 40 -

- 41 -



