Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2758 SE
                        Development Credit Agreement
                           (Water Sector Project)
                                   between
                             REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated December 12, 1995
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2758 SE
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated December 12, 1995, between  REPUBLIC OF
SENEGAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
       WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
       (B)   the Association has received a letter, dated June 12,
1995, from the Borrower, describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to strengthen the performance
of the Borrower's water sector (the Program) and declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
       (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of
Belgium (Belgium), Banque Arabe pour le Developpement en
Afrique (BADEA), Banque Europeenne d'Investissement (BEI),
Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement (BOAD), Caisse
francaise de developpement (CFD), Kreditanstalt fur
Weideraufbau (KfW), and Nordic Development Fund (NDF) loans and
grants in an aggregate amount equivalent to approximately one
hundred ninety-two million four hundred thousand dollars
Page  2
($192,400,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in the respective loan and grant
agreements (the Cofinancing Agreements) to be entered
respectively between the Borrower and Belgium, BADEA, BEI,
BOAD, CFD, KfW, and NDF;
       (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from various donors,
loans or grants in an aggregate amount equivalent to
approximately twenty million five hundred thousand dollars
($20,500,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in the loan or grant agreements (the
Additional Financing Agreements) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the donors;
       (E)   Part B of the Project will be carried out by Societe
Nationale des Eaux du Senegal (SONES) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to SONES a portion of the proceeds of the Credit
as provided in this Agreement; and
       WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and SONES;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
       (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
       (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
             "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
             otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a)
             on account of expenditures in the territories of any
             country which is not a member of the Bank or for
             goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
             territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
             to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
             if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
             Association, is prohibited by a decision of the
             United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
             VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
       (a)   "MEFP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy,
Finance and Planning;
       (b)   "MH" means Ministere de l'Hydraulique, the Borrower's
Ministry of Hydraulics;
       (c)   "SGPRE" means Service de gestion et de planification
des ressources en eaux, the water resources management and
planning services of the MH;
       (d)   "MEAVF" means Mission d'Etude et d'Amenagement des
Vallees Fossiles, a department of the MH;
Page  3
       (e)   "ONAS" means Office National d'Assainissement, an
autonomous entity to be established by the Borrower for the
purpose of developing, operating and maintaining urban and
peri-urban sanitation structures within the territory of the
Borrower;
       (f)   "SONES" means Societe Nationale des Eaux du Senegal,
a company established pursuant to Law No. 95.10 of the
Borrower, dated April 7, 1995, to replace the Societe Nationale
d'Exploitation des Eaux du Senegal (SONEES);
       (g)   "SDE" means Societe d'Exploitation, the company to be
established within the territory of the Borrower pursuant to
Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement for the purpose of operating
and managing the water sector;
       (h)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters dated, May 5, 1994, and May
26, 1994, and June 1, 1995, and June 12, 1995, between the
Borrower and the Association;
       (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
       (j)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SONES pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the terms "Subsidiary Loan" means
the loan provided under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
       (k)   "Implementation Manual" means the manual adopted by
the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01(i) and to be used by the
Borrower, SONES and ONAS for the purposes of the implementation
of the Project;
       (l)   "Contrat-Plan" means the contract entered into
between the Borrower and SONES establishing functional
relations between the Borrower and SONES and defining the
commitments of the Borrower and SONES as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to each Contrat-Plan;
       (m)   "Concession contract" means the contract to be
entered into between the Borrower and SONES, for the purposes
of granting to SONES the exclusive right to manage the urban
water supply facilities including the right to acquire and
construct facilities for production, transportation, storage
and distribution of drinking water within the territory of the
Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to each Concession Contract
       (n)   "Contrat d'Affermage" means the tripartite contract
to be entered into between the Borrower, SONES and SDE,
granting to SDE, the exclusive right to produce and distribute
drinking water; as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to each Contrat
d'Affermage;
       (o)   "Performance Contract" means the contract to be
entered into between SONES and SDE, for the purpose of
specifying the quantitative and qualitative objectives to be
met by SDE in the production and distribution of drinking
water, and granting SONES an authority of control over SDE, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to each Performance Contract;
       (p)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SONES, of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
Page  4
       (q)   "Implementation Agreement" means the agreement
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and
to be entered into between the Borrower and ONAS pursuant to
Section 6 01 (d) of this Agreement;
       (r)   "CFAF" means Franc de la Communaute Financiere
Africaine, the currency of the Borrower;
       (s)   "Environmental Mitigation Plan" means the
environmental mitigation plan to be prepared and adopted by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement
detailing the measures proposed to address the adverse
environmental impact of investments under the Project; and
       (t)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower
starting January 1 and ending December 31, each year.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
       Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty-three million five hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 63,500,000).
       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
       (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
       (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
       Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
       (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Page  5
Agreement.
       (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
       Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
       Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
       Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1
commencing December 1, 2005, and ending June 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1,
2015, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
       (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
       (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
       Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and, to this end:
             (i)   shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project
                   through MH and ONAS respectively with due
                   diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
Page  6
                   appropriate administrative, financial,
                   management and environmental practices and in
                   accordance with the Implementation Program set
                   forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and
                   shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                   facilities, services and other resources
                   required for such Parts A and C of the Project;
             (ii)  shall cause SONES to carry out Part B of the
                   Project with due diligence and efficiency and
                   in conformity with appropriate administrative,
                   financial, management and environmental
                   practices, and in accordance with the
                   provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
                   and
            (iii)  without limitation or restriction upon any
                   of its other obligations under the
                   Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower
                   shall cause SONES to perform all its
                   obligations set forth in the Project
                   Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken
                   all action, including the provision of
                   funds, facilities, services and other
                   resources, necessary or appropriate to
                   enable SONES to perform such obligations,
                   and shall not take or permit to be taken
                   any action which would prevent or
                   interfere with such performance.
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
                   (A) relend, out of the proceeds of the Credit,
                   an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR
                   24,300,000, to SONES under a subsidiary loan
                   agreement to be entered into between the
                   Borrower and SONES, under terms and conditions
                   which shall have been approved by the
                   Association, including the following principal
                   terms and conditions: (i) an interest rate of
                   7.1% per annum on the principal amount of the
                   Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
                   time to time; (ii) the terms of the Subsidiary
                   Loan shall be of twenty (20) years including a
                   five-year grace period; and (iii) the principal
                   amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be the
                   equivalent in CFAF of the amount of the Credit
                   withdrawn from the Credit Account under Part B
                   of the Project (such equivalent to be
                   determined as of the date, or respective date
                   of repayment); and
                   (B) transfer, out of the Credit, an amount not
                   exceeding the equivalent of SDR 29,700,000 to
                   SONES as equity contribution.
       (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
       (d)   The Borrower shall enter into the Implementation
Agreement with ONAS, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including those set forth in paragraph 2 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for Parts A and C of the Project and to be
Page  7
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of Parts A and C of the Project;
       (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
       (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
       Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Part B of the Project shall be
carried out by SONES pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
       Section 3.05. (a) Without limitation or restriction on the
provisions of Section 3.01, the Borrower and the Association,
at the request of either party, shall exchange views on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of Parts A and C of the
Project. The first such exchange of views shall take place not
later than six months after the Effective Date.
       (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out Parts A and C
of the Project, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
       Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
             (i)   through MH, report to the Association,
                   quarterly on the progress of Parts A and C of
                   the Project including the status of the
                   specified monitoring indicators agreed between
                   the Borrower and the Association; and
             (ii)  take all necessary measures to implement the
                   Environmental Mitigation Plan.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A and C of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out Parts A and C of the Project or
any part thereof.
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
Page  8
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
             (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records,
                   accounts and the audit thereof as the
                   Association shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
       (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
             (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives
                   to examine such records; and
             (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
       Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all necessary
measures to increase, annually, the tariff of water, except for
water for market gardening, starting January 1, 1996, so as to
allow SONES to achieve a targeted financial equilibrium in the
water supply sub-sector by December 31, 2003.
       (b)   The Borrower shall, not later than October 31 of each
year, commencing October 31, 1996, review the updated financial
projections, and if necessary, readjust the annual tariff
increase, so as to permit the realization of the targeted
financial equilibrium referred to in paragraph (a) above.
       (c)   For the purposes of paragraph (a) above, the increase
of water tariff, in 1996 and 1997, shall be across the board to
all tariff categories.
       (d)   For the purpose of this Section, targeted financial
equilibrium shall mean the equilibrium where the cash shortfall
of the water supply sub-sector resorbed by SONES is equal to
zero or positive; and cash shortfall shall mean the net income
after taxes plus depreciation and provisions minus recovery or
reinstatement of depreciation or provisions for depreciation
plus other non-cash expenses.
Page  9
       Section 4.03. Without limitation to Section 4.02 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall, not later than July 1, 1997,
prepare and furnish to the Association:
       (a)   a proposal on a new tariff structure for water,
except for market gardening, to be implemented as of January 1,
1998;
       (b)   a proposal on a mechanism to apply the annual
percentage increase of the water tariff differentially to the
various tariff categories, excluding market gardening; and
       (c)   subject to approval from the Association, implement
the proposals referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Association
       Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)   as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a
significant part thereof will be carried out;
       (b)   SONES shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
       (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that SONES will be able
to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
       (d)   Law No. 95.10 of the Borrower dated April 7, 1995,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
SONES to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
       (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of ONAS or SONES or for the suspension of
their operations.
       (f)   The Additional Financing Agreements shall have failed
to become effective by December 31, 1997, or such later date as
the Association may agree; provided however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
       (g)   The Performance Contract, the Contrat-Plan, the
Concession Contract, the Contrat d'Affermage or the
Implementation Agreement shall have been modified so as to
affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the
Association, the ability of SONES, SDE or ONAS, as the case may
be, to carry out their respective responsibilities under the
Project.
       (h)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                   proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                   Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                   have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                   whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                   Agreement providing therefor, or (B) any such
                   loan shall have become due and payable prior to
Page  10
                   the agreed maturity thereof.
             (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                   under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                   for the Project are available to the Borrower
                   from other sources on terms and conditions
                   consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                   under this Agreement.
       Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
       (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
       (c)   the event specified in paragraph (h) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (h) (ii) of that Section.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
       Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
       (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and SONES;
       (b)   SDE has been established, under the terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association, and the Borrower has
entered into the Contrat d'Affermage with SDE and the
Concession Contract with SONES, both under the terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association;
       (c)   the Borrower has increased the tariff for water by 3%
in real terms, and applied the increase as of July 1, 1995,
except for the market gardening sub-sector;
       (d)   the Borrower has established ONAS and has entered
into the Implementation Agreement, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
       (e)   the Borrower has adopted the Environmental Mitigation
Plan, satisfactory to the Association;
       (f)   SONES has entered into agreements with commercial
banks, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association, to provide a line of credit in an aggregate amount
equivalent to thirty million five hundred thousand dollars
($30,500,000) for the purpose of financing the temporary cash
shortfall of the water supply sub-sector;
       (g)   the Borrower has appointed an external auditor, with
a multi-year contract, in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, for the purpose of
carrying out auditing of Parts A, B and C of the Project;
       (h)   the Cofinancing Agreements have been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the respective parties and all
Page  11
conditions, if any, precedent to their effectiveness and
initial disbursement of funds thereunder, other than
fulfillment of the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been satisfied ; and
       (i)   the Implementation Manual, satisfactory to the
Association, has been adopted.
       Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
       (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by SONES, and is legally binding upon SONES in
accordance with its terms; and
       (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SONES and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and SONES in accordance with its
terms.
       Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days
after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
             Rue Charles Laine
             B.P. 4017
             Dakar
             Senegal
             Cable address:                       Telex:
                   MINIFINANCES                   3203 G
                   Dakar
       For the Association:
             International Development Association
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                       Telex:
                   INDEVAS                        248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.                82987 (FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Page  12
                   By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
                                                   Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edward V.J. Jaycox
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                                                      Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                        Credit Allocated                 % of
                         (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1) Civil works                                   90%
    (a) Under Part B
        of the Project       40,700,000
    (b) Under Part C
        of the Project          150,000
(2) Goods and Equipment
    (a) Under Part A
        of the Project          150,000          100%
    (b) Under Part B
        of the Project        7,700,000          100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
    (c) Under Part C
        of the Project        4,250,000          100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3) Consultants'                                 100%
    Services
    (a) Under Part A
        of the Project        3,550,000
    (b) Under Part B
        of the Project          600,000
    (c) Under Part C
        of the Project        1,100,000
(4) Refunding of              1,300,000          Amounts due
    Project                                      pursuant to
    Preparation                                  Section 2.02 (c)
Page  13
    Advance                                      of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated               4,000,000
    TOTAL                    63,500,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from
the territory of which the goods and services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.  It is understood that the percentages in the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis
of the provisions in Section 3.09 and 1091 respectively of the
Law No. 92-40 of the Borrower, dated July 9, 1992 (Code General
des Impots), which exempts goods to be financed under the
Project from the proceeds of the Credit from taxes and customs
duties levied by the Borrower. If any change is made to said
law which has the effect of levying taxes or customs duties on
such goods, the percentages referred to above shall be
decreased in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of
the General Conditions.
5.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for goods and equipment under contracts not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, works under contracts not
exceeding $500,000 equivalent, and services under contracts
with consulting firms not exceeding $100,000, and with
individual consultants not exceeding $50,000, under such terms
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve
management, pricing and cost recovery and reduce subsidy for
industrial, domestic and irrigation water in order to increase
the sector's sustainability; (ii) increase access to safe
potable water and adequate and more affordable sanitation for
urban poor in order to alleviate poverty and improve health;
(iii) engage a private company to manage urban water supply in
order to increase private sector participation; (iv) formulate
a national integrated, multi-sectoral policy for the shared use
of water for households, industry and agriculture in order to
develop a water resources management strategy; (v) strengthen
MH, SONES and ONAS in sector policy formulation as well as in
the development of strategies for urban and peri-urban
sanitation in order to strengthen local capacity; (vi) reduce
leakages in the water distribution system and increase water
production capacity; and (vii) increase the effectiveness of
the existing Dakar sewerage system, develop sanitation in
secondary towns and promote reuse of treated municipal water
for irrigation.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
Page  14
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
1.  Ministry of Hydraulics
    (a)   Strengthening of MH through the provision of technical
advisory services on matters related to water resources
management as well as computer equipment.
    (b)   Preparation and implementation of a national water
resource management strategy.
    (c)   Organization of short and long-term training for the
benefit of MH staff.
    (d)   Carrying out of specific hydrological and other
studies, including studies related to Lac de Guiers, the
revitalization of the Vallees Fossiles and the Maestrichtian
aquifer.
    (e)   Organization of training to key staff of SGPRE in the
use of PC-based groundwater modelling.
2.  SONES
    (a)   Strengthening of SONES in its management of water
sector policy including the provision of assistance in auditing
and analytical accounting.
    (b)   Provision of technical advisory services in the area of
urban water supply.
    (c)   Carrying out of a public health education and demand
management campaign throughout the territory of the Borrower.
    (d)   Organization of short and long-term training for the
benefit of SONES staff.
3.  ONAS
    (a)   Strengthening of ONAS through the provision of
technical advisory services in the area of urban sanitation.
    (b)   Provision of advisory services in the formulation of a
national strategy for sanitation in urban and peri-urban areas.
    (c)   Organization of short and long-term training for the
benefit of ONAS staff.
    (d)   Carrying out of institutional, technical and financial
studies, including, inter alia, a study on the affordability of
water and sanitation services and the willingness of the
beneficiaries thereof to pay.
    (e)   Preparation of a public information and consultation
process to include non-governmental organizations in the said
consultation process.
    (f)   Organization of short and long-term training for the
benefit of ONAS staff.
Part B:   Urban Water Supply
1.  Drinking Water Production
    (a)   Carrying out of water treatment works to increase the
capacity of the existing Ngnith intake.
    (b)   Construction of about 11 boreholes in the northern
coastal zone including the related pipework.
Page  15
    (c)   Installation of piezometers to monitor the groundwater
table.
    (d)   Construction of about 100 km of buried transmission
main of 1,000 mm diameter between Ngnith and Thies.
    (e)   Construction of about 55 km of buried transmission main
of 1,200 mm diameter between Thies and Point B.
    (f)   Construction of a 25,000 cubic meter reservoir at
Mamelles.
    (g)   Construction of two boreholes near Thies including the
related pipework linking the said four wells to the existing
transmission system.
    (h)   Installation of a remote control and management system
for the Dakar water supply system.
2.  Water Supply Distribution
    (a)   Rehabilitation of the Greater Dakar water distribution
network consisting of about 100 km pipe of equivalent diameter
(100 mm), and about 30,000 connections.
    (b)   Extension of the existing water distribution network
based on an indicative masterplan prepared by SONES.
    (c)   Installation of about 34,000 low-income house
connections and 400 standpipes in the Dakar Region.
    (d)   Installation of large water meters in the distribution
system of Greater Dakar.
3.  Logistical Support, Engineering, Studies and Supervision
    (a)   Provision of technical advisory services to SONES in
the carrying out of final studies, preparation of bid
documents, and supervision of works.
    (b)   Preparation of a future water sector project including
designing of a pilot plant as model for a new treatment plant
and environmental impact study for the said treatment plant.
    (c)   Carrying out of maintenance and financial audits of SDE
for the period covering 1996-2000.
    (d)   Provision of computer and laboratory equipment.
    (e)   Carrying out of environmental impact study for a future
water sector long-term project.
    (f)   Rehabilitation of SONES's office facilities.
Part C:   Urban Sanitation
1.  Dakar Region
    (a)   Carrying out of works related to sewerage and urban
drainage, including, works to connect to existing sewer system.
    (b)   Carrying out of works related to the treatment and
reuse of peri-urban municipal waste waters in peri-urban areas.
2.  Secondary Towns and Riparian Centers
    Preparation of sewerage master plans for 13 secondary
towns and six centers riparian to the Senegal River.
3.  Saint Louis
    (a)   Carrying out of drainage works in St. Louis.
Page  16
    (b)   Carrying out of final studies and supervision of the
drainage works in Saint Louis.
4.  Rufisques
    (a)   Carrying out of sewerage and sanitation works in
Rufisques.
    (b)   Carrying out final studies and supervision of the
sewerage and sanitation works in Rufisques.
                             * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
    Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.  The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
    (a)   Prequalification
    Bidders for the treatment plants and works shall be
prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
    (b)   Grouping of contracts
    To the extent practicable, contracts for works and for goods
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost,
respectively, $500,000 and $100,000 equivalent or more each.
    (c)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
    The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower.
    (d)   Dispute Review Board
    Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000
equivalent or more shall include the provisions for a dispute
review board set forth in the standard bidding documents for
works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
    National Competitive Bidding
    Works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $4,700,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate,
Page  17
and goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $300,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Procurement Planning
    Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.  Prior Review
    With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
3.  Post Review
    With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Association, with such modifications thereto as shall have been
agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Association, other standard
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                           Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to
Page  18
the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
    (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about
November 30, 1997, May 31, 1999 and November 31, 2000, a report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof
during the period following such date; and
    (c)   review with the Association, by not later than December
31, 1997, June 30, 1999 and December 31, 2000 respectively, or
such later date as the Association shall request, the report
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter,
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report
and the Association's views on the matter.
    Implementation Agreement:
2.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that the Implementation Agreement to be
entered into with ONAS pursuant to Section 6.01(d) of this
Agreement, shall include, inter alia, provisions whereby:
    (i)   the Borrower shall make available to ONAS, an amount
          not exceeding the equivalent of five million seven
          hundred thousand special drawing rights (SDR 5,700,000)
          on a grant basis, for the purpose of the implementation
          of Part C of the Project;
    (ii)  ONAS shall declare its commitment to the objectives of
          the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
          Agreement and to this end ONAS shall agree to carry out
          Part C of the Project, with due diligence and
          efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
          administrative, financial, engineering and
          environmental practices and criteria, and to provide
          promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
          other resources required therefor;
   (iii)  ONAS shall agree that procurement of goods, works
          and services required for the Project and to be
          financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under
          this Agreement shall be carried out in accordance
          with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
    (iv)  ONAS shall agree to comply with the audit requirements
          under the Project, inter alia, to prepare financial
          statements in accordance with standards acceptable to
          the Association and audit its accounts by independent
          auditors acceptable to the Association and submit the
          audited accounts to the Association no later than six
          months after the close of its fiscal year;
    (v)   ONAS shall agree to report quarterly to the Borrower
          and the Association on the progress of Part C of the
          Project and on the evolution of the monitoring
          indicators;
    (vi)  ONAS shall agree to submit to the Borrower and the
          Association for review and comments, its annual capital
          and operating budgets;
   (vii)  ONAS shall participate fully in the Project
          reviews referred to in paragraph 1 of this
          Schedule, and the Project launch workshop
Page  19
          referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule;
  (viii)  ONAS shall agree to prepare and submit to the
          Association, not later than six months after the
          Closing Date, a report on the execution and
          operation of Part C of the Project, in form and
          substance acceptable to the Association; and
    (ix)  ONAS shall agree to implement, in conjunction with the
          Borrower, the Environmental Mitigation Plan.
3.   The Borrower shall ensure that the external auditor
appointed pursuant to Section 6.01 (g) of this Agreement shall
consolidate the audit reports prepared for Parts A, B and C of
the Project, and furnish, not later than one month after its
finalization, the consolidated report to the Association.
4.   The Borrower shall, not later than one month after the
Effectiveness Date, organize, jointly with SONES and ONAS, a
Project launch workshop.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
through 3 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to FCFA 500,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to FCFA
250,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 1,500,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                such intervals as the Association shall specify.
Page  20
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
Page  21
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
