CREDIT NUMBER 2758 SE
Project Agreement
(Water Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES EAUX DU SENEGAL
Dated  I        ( 2  , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2758 SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          CU v         2             , 1995, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and SOCIETE
NATIONALE DES EAUX DU SENEGAL (SONES).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Senegal (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 63,500,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that SONES agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)    by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and SONES, a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be relent to SONES on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS SONES, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE H
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SONES declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall
carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, management and water supply practices,


﻿-2-
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for Part B of the Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and, except as the Association and SONES shall otherwise agree, SONES shall carry out
Part B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services, required for Part B of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. SONES shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03,
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part B of the Project.
Section 2.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, SONES shall:
(i)    prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation of
Part B of the Project;
(ii)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(iii)  thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account
the Association's comments thereon.
Section 2.05. SONES shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SONES shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. (a) SONES shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Contrat-Plan
the Concession Contract, the Performance Contract, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b)    SONES shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SONES of its
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Contrat-Plan the
Concession Contract and the Performance Contract.
Section 2.07. SONES shall:
(a)    prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than October 31 in each
year of the Project, an action plan to include, without limitation, a work program and
budgetary allocations, for the implementation of Part B of the Project in the following
year;
(b)    conduct, not later than December 31 in each year, commencing December
31, 1996, an annual review of Part B of the Project, together with the Borrower and the
Association, to assess progress and evaluate performance during the preceding year;
(c)-   revise the action plan prepared in accordance with paragraph (a) above
after the review conducted in accordance with paragraph (b) above, taking into account
the Association's comments and recommendations in a manner satisfactory to the
Association; and
(d)    implement the revised action plan during the course of the following year
in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.08. SONES shall:
(i)    implement, in conjunction with the Borrower, the Environmental
Mitigation Plan; and
(ii)   organize jointly with the Borrower and ONAS, a Project launch
workshop.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SONES
Section 3.01. SONES shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and management practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SONES shall ensure that, at all times, SDE operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial, management and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. SONES shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SONES shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)    SONES shall:
(i)    have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in- accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and


﻿-5-
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SONES shall
maintain its annual expenditures on personnel to an amount, in constant 1995 CFAF,
equivalent to not more than CFAF 500,000,000 for the year 1996, CFAF 510,000,000 for
the year 1997, CFAF 520,000,000 for the year 1998, CFAF 530,000,000 for the year
1999, CFAF 540,000,000 for the year 2000, CFAF 550,000,000 for the year 2001, CFAF
560,000,000 for the year 2002 and CFAF 570,000,000 for the year 2003.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SONES shall
produce, for each of its fiscal years, commencing from the fiscal year 1996, funds from
internal sources, or any other private commercial sources, equivalent to not less than 10%
of the annual average of SONES' capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be
incurred, for that year, the previous fiscal year and the three next following fiscal years.
(b)    SONES shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by SONES and
satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth
in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall
furnish to the Association a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c)    If any such review shows that SONES would not meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a) for SONES' fiscal years covered by such review, SONES shall
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference
between:
(A)    the sum   of revenues from  all sources related to
operations, consumer deposits and consumer contribu-
tions in aid of construction, net non-operating income
and any reduction in working capital other than cash; and
(B)    the sum of all expenses related to operations, including
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for


﻿-6-
depreciation and other non-cash operating charges), debt
service requirements, all cash dividends and other cash
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital
expenditures.
(ii)   The term   "net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
(A)    revenues from all sources other than those related to
operations; and
(B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)  The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at the
end of each fiscal year.
(iv)   The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts
receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses' within the
next fiscal year.
(v)    The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will
become due and payable or could under circumstances then
existing be called for payment within twelve months, including
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service requirements,
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)   The term   "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any)
of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(vii)  The term   "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on
account of fixed assets, including interest charged to construction,
related to operations.


﻿-7-
(viii)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate,
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SONES shall
not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of SONES for the fiscal year immediately
preceding the date of such occurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to
the date of such occurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be, for the year 1996, at least
0.8, for the year 1997, at least 0.9, for the year 1998, at least 1.3, and for the year 1999
and thereafter, at least 1.4 times, the estimated maximum debt service requirements of
SONES for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of SONES, including the debt to be
incurred.
(b)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SONES maturing by
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract
or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for
the modification of its terms of payment on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee.
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)  The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)    the sum  of revenues from   all sources related to
operations adjusted to take account of SONES' rates in
effect at the time of the occurrence of debt even though
they were not in effect during the twelve-month period
to which such revenues relate and net non-operating
income; and


﻿-8-
(B)    the sum of all expenses related to operations including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
(A)    revenues from all sources other than those related to
operations; and
(B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)    The term  "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any)
of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate,
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.05. SONES shall:
(i)    furnish to the Association its annual capital and operating budgets
for review and comments;
(ii)   report to the Association, quarterly, on the progress of Part B of
the Project including the evolution of specified monitoring
indicators;
(iii)  not later than July 31, 1995, furnish to the Association the audit
report of the accounts of SONEES for the year 1994;


﻿-9-
(iv)   not later than June 30, 1996, establish a monthly cash-flow model
for the purpose of managing cash, acceptable to the Association;
and
(v)    not later than June 30, 1996, establish a cost-accounting system
corresponding to generally accepted utility practices, satisfactory
to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of
SONES thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)    the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)  the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify SONES of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such


﻿- 10 -
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INDEVAS               248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.       82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For SONES:
97, Avenue Peytavin
B.P. 400
Dakar
Senegal
Telex:
6137 G
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SONES may be
taken or executed by the director general or such other person or persons as the director
general shall designate in writing, and SONES shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By t51   ad~    -A-     J Q,       1%CcP
Regional Vice President
Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES EAUX DU SENEGAL
By u,rz S                                 R   e    a
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Implemeztation Program
SONES shall:
(a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association,
the carrying out of Part B of the Project;
(b)    prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and
furnish to the Association, on or about November 30,1997, May 31, 1999 and November
31, 2000, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of Part B of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report
and setting measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part B of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date;
(c)    review with the Association, not later than December 31, 1997, June 30,
1999 and December 31, 2000 respectively, or such later date as the Association shall
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part B of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of
the said report and the Association's views on the matter.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
-Development Association.
FORS SIRETARY


