Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14009-NIR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 7, 1995
Africa Region
Central Western Africa Department
Agriculture and Environment Division



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(Apnrl 24, 1995)
Currencv Unit        =      CFA franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00             =      CFAF 585 (as of April 24, 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I inch        =      2.54 cm
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBNRM           Cornmunity-Based Natural Resource Management
CECI            Canadian Center for Intemational Studies and Cooperation
(Centre Canadien d'études et de coopération internationale)
CESP            Country Environmental Strategy Paper
CFD             French Development Agency
(Caisse Française de développement)
CIDA            Canadian Intemational Development Agency
CILSS           Inter-State Committee to Fight Desrtification
(Comnite inter-etats de lutte contre la sécheresse au Sahel)
COTEAR          District Technical Committee
(Comité technique d'arrondissement)
COTEDEP         Regional Technical Committee
(Comnité technique de départemente)
CST             Communitv Support Team
FAO/CP          Food and Agriculure Organization/Cooperative Program
GDP             Gross Domestie Product
GTZ             German Cooperation Agency
(Gesellschafifiir Technische Zusammznenarbeit)
IFAD            Intemnational Fund for Agricultural Development
LA              Liaison agent
LCNRM           Local Council for Natural Resource Management
MAL             Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MFP             Ministry of Finance and Planning
MiWE            Ministry for Water and Environment
NEAP            National Environment Action Plan
NGO             Non-Govemmental Organization
NRIN            Natural Resource Information Network
NRM             Natural Resource Management
NRMU            NRM UJnit
NRMSC           Natural Resource Management Steering Committee
ON1VPE          Nigerien Volunteers Organization for the Preservation of the Environment
(Organiisation nigérienne de volontaires pour la préservation de l'environnement)
PNLCD           National Plan to Combat Desertification
(Plan national dle lutte contre la désertification)
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
RDPF            Rural Development Policv Framework
RDSC            Rural Development Sub-Committee
UNCED           United Nations Conference on Environment and Development
USAID           United States Agency for Intemational Development
UNSO            United Nations Sahelian Office
UTA             Technical Support Unit
(Unité teclniqule d'appui)



i



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pa2_e No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................                             iii
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                                      1
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND   ..
A. Economy and Population .
B. Natural Resource Endowment                         .2
C. The Agricultural Sector                         .3
D. Gender Issues, Land Tenure and Decentralization            .4
E. Environmental Policy and Planning                    .4
F. IDA's Strategy in the Rural Sector                   .6
G. Lessons of Experience                          .6
III. THE PROJECT                                      .8
A. Objectives and Rationale                        .8
B. Summary Description                            .9
C. Detailed Project Description                      .9
D. Project Costs .15
E. Financing Plan ....................................                        16
F. Procurement Arrangements .17
G. Disbursements .20
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .21
A. Project Organization.                                                      21
B. Implementation of Project Components .23
C. Coordination with Other Projects and Prograns .25
D. Monitoring and Evaluation .                                               25
E. Approval Procedures and Financing Mechanisms
for Community-Based Investments .26
F. Supervision, Annual and Mid-Term Review .28
G. Environmnental Impact .                                                    29



-ii-
Page No.
V.      PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY ............................. 29
A. Benefits ............................................. 29
B. Risks .............................................                                 31
C. Sustainability ........... . . . ... . . . 32
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........................... 33
ANNEXES
Annex l         Summary Cost Tables
-   Tables 1 and 2 - Project Cost Summary by Component/Year
-   Tables 3 and 4 - Project Components by Expenditure Account/Year
Annex 2         Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 3         Implementation Schedule
Annex 4         Supervision Schedule
Annex 5         Monitoring Indicators
Annex 6         Natural Resources and Ecological Zones in Niger
Annex 7         The Community Based Natural Resource Management (CBNRM) Approach
Annex 8         The USAID-Supported Agricultural Sector Development Grant (ASDG 11)
Annex 9         Human Resource Development
Annex 10        Land Tenure and Local Community Empowerment
MAPS
IBRD 26861    Agricultural Zones and Program  Area
IBRD 26862   Population
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission which visited Niger in April 1994 followed by an
appraisal mission in July 1994. The pre-appraisal mission consisted of Abdelkrim Oka, Senior Environmental
Specialist, Mission Leader and Task Manager (AF5AE); Francis Mody (AF4NI); Annick Lachance, Agro-
Economist (IDA Consultant); Muimana Kalala, Monitoring and Evaluation (Laval University); Mike Speirs,
Economist (IDA Consultant); Yves Prévost, Enviroamental Information Systems Specialist (IDA Consultant). The
following also participated in the work of the pre-appraisal mission: Madicke Niang (AF4NI); Barry Rands and
Curt Nissly (USAID, Niger); Robert Winterbottom (IRG/USAID-Niger); Alex Faizoun, EIS (UNSO Consultant);
and Haffner (GTZ-Niger). The appraisal mission consisted of Abdelkrim Oka (mission leader) and Annick
Lachance. Dirk Elsen, Legal Advisor for Niger (LEGAF); Rougui Diallo (AF4NI); and Alex Faizoun also
participated in the work of the appraisal mission. This report was prepared by Abdelkrim Oka. Cynthia Cook is
the managing Division Chief. Olivier Lafourcade is the Department Director, and Franz Kaps the Operations
Advisor. The peer reviewers were Francois Falloux (AFTES) and Christian Pieri (AGRNR). Lucy Tran,
Operations Analyst (AF5AE), provided support for the COSTAB, financial and procurement matters. Bernard
Abeille provided advice on procurement.



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Proiect Summarv
Borrower             Republic of Niger
Guarantor            NA
Implementing Agency  Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Beneficiaries       lThe Borrower and Rural communities
Poverty              P'rogram of Targeted Interventions
Credit Amount        SDR 18.0 million (US$26.7 million equivalent)
Tenns                Standard, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee       0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver
Onlending Termns     NA
Financing Plan       See paragraph 3.26
Net Present Value    Cost ninimization criteria has been applied. Samnples of activities having
quantifiable benefits show positive Net Present Values.
Staff Appraisal
Report               No. 14009 NIR
Map                  113RD No. 26861
113RD No. 26862






REPUBLIC OF NIGER
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1          The proposed project constitutes a first five-year time slice of a long-term
National Natural Resources Management Program (NNRMP), expected to reach most of Niger's
rural communities. The goal of the long-term program is to slow down, stop and ultimately reverse
the current process of land and natural resource degradation in order to secure sustainable
agricultural production and growth, alleviate povertv and improve the living conditions of Niger's
rural communities. This would be accomplished by implementing a Community-Based Natural
Resources Management (CBNRM) approach (also known as Gestion de terroirs) for the rational
management and use of the renewable natural resources that constitute the base for agricultural
production. Under the CBNRM approach, assistance is provided to local communities to help
them design and implement sustainable management plans for their land and natural resources (the
"terroir"). The project wculd also help to create conditions for the success of this endeavor, in
terms of human resource: development, local community empowerment, data systems, and
financial, institutional, policy and legal framework.
1.2          The innovative, participatory and holistic CBNRM approach has been developed
and tested through several pilot projects launched over the last eight vears in the Sahel and is now
being adopted in most countries of the region. It addresses problems identified as a result of the
poor performance of earlier projects: some being too sectoral and top-down, others being multi-
disciplinary and multi-sectoral but with no links betveen sectoral components. The "Terroir"
management concept was endorsed during a regional conference in Ségou, Mali in May 1989,
organized by the Club du Sahel and the Interstate Committee to Combat Desertification in the
Sahel (CILSS), where representatives of rural comnuunities, donors, governments and NGOs
agreed that this approach needed to be tested on a larger scale in the region. Since then in Niger
and elsewhere in the Sahel, substantial investments have been made to promote that approach.
Il. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
A. Economy and Population
2.1           With a per capita GDP of US$300 in 1993, Niger is one of the poorest countries
in the world. Its population, currentlv estimated at 8.5 million people, is growing at an annual rate
of 3.3 percent. This national average does not reflect regional disparities mainly caused by internal
migrations. Similarly, the national average for population density (4.4 in./km2) hides wide regional
variations, from less than 1 inh/km2 in the north and very arid north-eastern regions up to 80
inh/km2 in the higher rainfall southern fringe boidering Nigeria.
2.2           The rural population accounts for about 33.2 percent of the national total. The
vast majority of Nigeriens derive their livelihood from subsistence agriculture, under inhospitable



-2-
environrnental conditions. Approximately 70 percent of the land area is desert or semi-desert. The
formal economic sector (accounting for about 28 percent of GDP), long dominated by an
inefficient public sector, depends on uranium. Uranium export receipts have accounted for 80
percent of export eamrings from 1975 to 1989 and an average of 70 percent thereafter. The
prospects, however, for this primary commodity appear bleak- due to increasingly unattractive
world market conditions. Since the downturn of uranium prices in 1981, the Nigerien economy
suffered from successive severe setbacks. At present, the economy is still in a deep slump. Real
GDP grew at a very low average annual rate of only 0.25 percent between 1985 and 1992. Per
capita income has declined by 3.4 percent per vear since 1980. Poverty and malnutrition levels
have remained constant, at best, and may actually have worsened in the 1980s. The informal
economic sector (about 135,000 micro and small enterprises, accounting for 72 percent of GDP)
consists of agriculture, small-scale artisanal and service activities, and influential traditional trade
with close links to Niger`s powerful neighbor, Nigeria.
2.3           In February 1992, Niger adopted a population strategy (document available in
files) which focuses on1 familv planning.  Recognizing the nexus of population growth and
economic development, the objectives of the strategy are to improve the health, nutrition and
education status of the population, and overall living conditions, with particular emphasis on the
most vulnerable groups, including women and young people; and to promote information and
research. In support to the Government strategy, the Bank is financing a Population Project (Cr.
2360-NIR) aimed at assisting the Governmcnt to implement an effective national population
program, with the primary objective of accelerating the onset of fertility decline by increasing the
contraceptive prevalence rate, reducing maternal mortality. promoting attitudes favoring a
reduction in family size norms, and enhancing the capacity of women to participate effectively in
socioeconomic development.
B. Natural Resources Endowment
2.4           Niger is not blessed by its natural resource endowment. The country is large
(1,267,000 km2), and has a small population. Mean annual rainfall ranges from less than 100 mm
in the North to 800 mni in the extreme Southwest. Rainfall is very erratic with long periods of
drought, often followed by flash floods.  Surface and groundwater resources are important
although insufficiently tapped. Soils are generally poor in terms of structure and nutrient content,
and are highly subject to erosion. Niger has four main vegetation types which are basically
determined by rainfall, ranging from the Saharan steppe of the North to the wooded savanna of the
South. Nationwide, araoble land is estimated at 15 million ha or less than 12 percent of the total
land area. Thirteen diffièrent land use systcms have been identified in Niger (see Annex 6).
2.5           Dry wooded savanna forests cover 0.6 million ha.  Fuelwood and charcoal
constitute the main energy source for 100 percent of rural households and 90 percent of urban
households. Fishery resources were important before the droughts of 1973 and 1983; they have
been drastically reduced, but may be able to recover if good rains continue. It is estimated that the
wildlife population has declined by 90 percent over the last 20 years due to subsistence and
commercial hunting and to the destruction of natural habitat through droughts and land clearing.



-3-
C. The A2ricultural Sector
2.6            Agriculture in Niger contributes about 40 percent of GDP, 85 percent of
employment, 16 percent of total export eamings and 100 percent of non-uranium export receipts.
With the projected continuïng decline of the uranium sector, agriculture is expected to become a
major source of foreign exchange in the future. The internal adjustrment measures taken by the new
Government, since the realignment of the CFA franc in January 1994, should contribute to
economic stabilization. With these measures, Niger stands a good chance for accelerated growth in
food crop production for cereal import substitution (sorghum, millet, rice) as well as through
export expansion (livestock, cowpeas, pepper, onion). This would lead to sustained improvements
Ln living standards and poverty alleviation. A major precondition for this agricultural supply
response to occur will be to ensure full pass-through of the benefits of the devaluation to rural
producers and to substantiallv improve the overall incentive framework for agricultural enterprise.
2.7           Agriculture's performance and contribution to national income have been erratie
over the last three decades. and largelv dependent on climatic conditions. Leading activities in the
sector are the production of cereals (millet, sorghum, rice and maize) for domestic consumption,
cotton, groundnut and cowpeas for export, and livestock for both domestic consumption and
export. With the recent devaluation of the CFA franc, livestock exports increased significantly.
Nigeria is the principal market for both export products. Total cereals production in the 1980s
increased only by 1.8 percent per vear. compared to population growth of 3.3 percent. As a result,
since 1971, Niger has had to rely increasingly on imports to mect domestic cereal demand, except
following the few years of good rainfall. Cotton and groundnut production was adversely affected
by the 1984-85 drought and. until the January 1994 devaluation, suffered from a lack of
competitiveness on world markets With the development of irrigation schemes, new off-scason
crops arc now taking off: cassava, cowpeas. potatocs, onions and other vegetables. This remains
however on a limited scale except for pepper.
2.8            Livestock production represents an important part of the agricultural sector,
involving about 24 percent of Niger's population and constituting its second largest export ($95
million) after uranium. Livestock suffered heavy losses during the 1984-85 drought and the cattle
population still has not fully recovered. During this time, manv animals were permanently
transferred further South, creating competition over natural resources between the crop and the
livestock production svstems. In manv cases, there has been a significant transfer of livestock
ownership from  pastoralists to farmers or to urban dwellers.  With the recent CFA  franc
devaluation, demand for Nigerien livestock from the coastal countries provides promising scope for
that part of the agiicultural sector.
2.9            Because Nigerien agriculture is drought-prone and subject to uncertain and
irregular rainfall, the use of inputs such as fertilizer and animal traction is costly and economically
risky, limiting the scope for increasing productivity in rainfed agriculture. What little increase in
cereals production occurred was largely due to bringing marginal land under cultivation and
shortening fallow periods. This reduction of the fallow is causing soil depletion and yield decline:
millet yields dropped from 600 kg/ha in 1960 to 350 kg/ha in the early nineties, thus forcing the
expansion of agriculture at the expenses of pasture, forcst or marginal lands. Forest land clearing
for agriculture, tree cutting for fuelwood supplv, and the effects of drought are causing an annual
loss of 100,000 hectares of forest cover. The spread of extensive cereal agriculture has accelerated
the process of land degradation.



-4-
D. Gender Issues, Land Tenure and Decentralization
2.10          Gender Issues. The degradation of natural resources is having a strong adverse
effect on the daily life of rural women. Most women have to walk long distances to gather
firewood or fetch water, while still carrying out their domestic duties and production activities.
Although, women, are important users of natural resources and very active in crop production and
small animal raising, their role in the design of development projects has generally been omitted,
underestimated or marginalized. Their role as users and managers of natural resources, and their
considerable knowledge on how best to manage these resources have not been fully taken into
consideration by decision makers and planners. Government services and projects staff are mostly
men who often do not know how, or do not see the need, to involve women more fully.
2.11          Land lenure. Rural lands in Niger have essentially been managed according to
traditional and customary land tenure rules, based on family ownership of the land and individual
land use -- rather than propertv -- rights. As long as land was plentiful, land tenure security was
not a serious issue. This situation has, however, changed over the last 30 years under the effect of
rapid population growth, rcpeated droughts, and subsequent migration. Arable land became scarce
and competition and conflict over land became increasingly frequent. In 1987, the Government of
Niger initiated the preparation and implementation of a Rural Code, which was approved March 2,
1993. The Rural Code constitutes a legal breakthrough in Niger and in the Sahelian region: it
establishes rules for the access, use and management of natural resources, principally land, water,
forests and wildlife. It deals with land tenure as well as land use and management, and requires
consultation with the people whenever public actions are taken for collective investments. The
Code also calls for the creation of Land Tenure Commissions at district level that will be
competent to determine land tenure rights and identify land uses. (See Annex 10 for more details.)
2.12          Decentralization and Local Community Empowerment. Individual ownership of
land and resources cannot solve all natural resource management problems, as many of these
resources are community-owned. Crop land can be -and de facto has always been- managed at
individual level. However, pastoral and forest lands, water resources and infrastructure continue to
be community or public property and their management and use in Niger is also often collective.
Local communities nonetheless do not have the legal identity and power to administer these
resources. A "Law Determining the Fundamental Principles of Administration of Districts and
Municipalities" (the Decentralization Law) was adopted in October 1993 by the National
Assembly and promulgated in September 1994. Under this law, districts and municipalities will
become legal entities. They will have responsibilitv over local finances and management of local
public services and community assets and will be represented by elected bodies, the District
Councils (CONSARs) and the Municipal Councils. Under the present law, similar autonomy is not
considered at the level of villages or terroirs, but this is expected to be the next decentralization
step.
E. Environmental Policy and Plannin2
2.13          Niger's principal objective in its new broad development strategy is to achieve
sustainable per capita income growth with equity. As part of this strategy, the Government
adopted in 1992 a Rural Development Policy Framework (RDPF) that considers four main thrusts:
(i) Natural Resources NManagement; (ii) Food Security; (iii) Intensification and Diversification of
Production; and (iv) Emnpowerment of Rural Communities and the redefinition of the role of the
State. Through the RDIF, the NRM strategy adopts an integrated, interdisciplinary and holistic



-5-
approach, relying on an enabling legal framework and aining at a progressive transformation of
agricultural and livestock production systems while taking into consideration the fundamental
ecological equilibrium. In this context, land degradation is regarded by the Nigerien Government as
the country's single most important environmental issue and the most serious threat to the success
of its development strategy.
2.14          In 1985, Niger produced its first National Plan to Combat Desertification
(PNLCD), subsequently revised im 1991. The document contains a comprehensive analysis of the
state of the country's natural resources and emphasizes the need for integrated natural resource
management with a community-based approach as a solution to desertification problems. The
PNLCD created considerable environmentai awareness amnong technical staff and, to a certain
extent, ainong the public. In 1992, in its presentation to the UNCED Conference on Environment
and Development in Rio, the Government re-emphasized its commitnent to deal with
environmental issues in a comprehensive manner. It established in 1993 a National Committee
(COMNAT) to coordinate the preparation of a national strategy on environmnent.
2.15         In 1993-94 the Government cooperated with IDA in the preparation of a Country
Environment Strategy Paper (CESP). A copy of the CESP is available in the Project file. The
Government is now starting the preparation of its National Environmental Plan for Sustainable
Development (PNEDD) for which the CESP will constitute a starting point. Current plans are to
prepare the NEAP in conjunction with a national plan of action to implement the International
Convention on Desertification Control. These plans are expected to be completed by June 1997.
The National NRM Program (NNRMP/PNGRN) will most likely emerge as a key strategic element
in the PNEDD.
2.16         There are two main ministries involved with development activities related to
renewable natural resources in Niger: the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAL) and the
Ministry of Water and the Environment (MWE). The MAL is responsible for agriculture,
livestock, natural resources, rural organizations, and agricultural research.  The MWE is
responsible for the design and implementation of policies in the area of water and forestry resource
development, fisheries, and pollution control. Coordination among technical services for the rural
sector at the national level takes place, in principle, through the Rural Development Sub-
Comnmittee (RDSC), responsible for the preparation of the RDPF (para. 2.13). At regional and
district levels, coordination is ensured in principle through the Departmental Technical Comnmittees
(COTEDEPs) at regional level, chaired by the Préfet, and the District Technical Committees
(COTEARs) at district level, chaired by the Sous-Préfet. In practice, this coordination has not
been very operational, and there is a need to improve it at all levels.
2.17         Decision makers and managers from donor groups and Government have been
working to devise more efficient institutional frameworks. In 1992, the Goverunnent merged the
Integrated Program for Natural Resources Management (PIGRN) under MAL and the National
Action Plan to Combat Desertification (PNLCD) under MWE to form the current National Natural
Resources Management Program (NNRMP or PNGRN). The staff of the former Cellule PIGRN
was assigned to the newly created "Cellule GRN" (C-GRN), also called the NRM Coordinating
Unit (NRMU), in charge of coordinating the NNRMP. The NRMU is an interministerial body
under the umbrella of the MAL and reporting to the RDSC. The NRMU staff consists of
professionals from three ministries: MAL, MWE, and MFP, and contractual staff. The mandate of
the NRMU is to: (i) elaborate and propose a policy and strategies regarding the management of
natural resources; (ii) provide support to government structures in designing and establishing



-6-
development operations based on such policy; (iii) define a general framework to promote people's
participation in natural resource management; (iv) guide the activities of GON's partners, both
internal and external, towards sustainable land use; (v) assemble and disseminate data on past
experiences regarding production systems as related to natural resource management; and (vi) steer
programs and projects supporting natural resource management. The NRMU is also responsible
for setting up the NNRMP and preparing the proposed Project, considered as a time-slice of the
NNRMP.
2.18          The establishment of the NRMU was well received by a number of donors as a
means to resolve potential conflicts arising from the multitude of donor-driven initiatives. Some
donors, however, have expressed concem that NRMU may attempt to "control" all NRM projects
in the country, depriving them of their present autonomy. It is therefore important that NRMU
starts building confidence and consensus, demonstrates its skills and the quality of the services it
can offer, and clearly defines its role as a facilitator rather than a controller. The key donors
involved in NRM-related activities have been: Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Netherlands,
Switzerland, USA, as well as FAO, IFAD, UNDP/UNSO. A Working Paper with a list of NRM-
related activities and donors involved is available in the Project files (Document no. 13), and para.
2.24 summarizes the lessons leamed ftom this experience.
F. IDA's Strate2v in the Rural Sector
2.19          IDA's primary long-term goal is to assist the Govemnent to achieve sustainable
economic growth with equity. In the rural sector, IDA's strategy is to assist Niger in implementing
its own rural development strategy, which calls for a strong emphasis on poverty reduction,
environmentally sustainable rural development, promotion of food security, natural resource
management, intensification and diversification of production, empowerment of local communities,
and decentralization (para. 2.12). In line with this strategy, IDA is financing the Small Rural
Operations (Cr. 1890), Agricultural Research (Cr. 2122), Agricultural Services (Cr. 2355), and
Private Irrigation (Cr. 2707) projects. In addition, a Food Security Study has been completed. An
Agricultural Growth Strategy Study is underway, which will build upon past Governrent and
donor strategies and may lead to the preparation of an Agricultural Sector Investment Project for
Niger.
G . Lessons of Experience
2.20          The Maradi Rural Development Proiect (Cr. 1026/PCR 8920) and the Dosso
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 967/PCR 7333) showed that increased inputs such as
chemical fertilizers do not necessarily result in increased outputs, even under favorable climatic
conditions, and that sound agricultural practices are essential for sustainable agricultural
development and growth.  These practices include soil and water conservation measures,
production and use of organic fertilizers, agroforestry practices, and crop diversification. All these
practices will be promoted under the proposed project.
2.21          The Second Forestry Proiect (Cr. 1226/PCR 10455) demonstrated that, under
prevailng conditions, ftee standing forestry projects, involving tree planting essentially for
fuelwood and small-scale timber production, are not economically viable and that integration with
agricultural and pastoral activities is necessary. Similarly, the major lessons drawn from the Niger
Livestock Project (Cr. 885/PCR 12791) are that strong links between pastoral, agricultural and
forest activities are essential under Sahelian conditions, and that further operations should deal



-7-
with the agro-sylvo-pastoral systems as a whole. The domestic energy component of the Energv
Proiect (Cr. 1880), which has succeeded in promoting a better use of existing natural resources
(trees for fuel) and in increasing rural incomes, is now reaching the conclusion that the next step
would be to move, with the same communities, towards a more comprehensive approach that
would deal with the whole package of natural resources available to them. Under the proposed
project, integrated agro-sylvo-pastoral activities will be promoted.
2.22          The Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1618/PCR 12980) led to substantial
incremental food crop production and rural income, but this could not be sustained after project
completion due to the top-down approach adopted by the Government's implementing agency and
the failure to properly empower farmer cooperatives. Reliance on farmer groups empowered to
make decisions over the management and use of their natural resources are fundamental principles
in the follow-on Pilot Private Irrigation Proiect (Cr. 2707). The Small Rural Operations Project
(Cr. 1890) has laid a foundation for multi-disciplinary team-work and beneficiary participation at
local level.  It does not deal, however, with the entire community and its natural resource
endowment but promotes independent income-generating operations for selected target groups. A
review of the above projects, particularly those at the completion stage, clearly indicates that the
lack of sound monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems prevented the inplementing agencies
from timely detecting shortcomings and from making the necessary corrections in the course of
implementation. Such problems make the assessment of projects impact difficuit and unreliable.
2.23          A survey of 111 pilot operations carrying out one or more NRM activities was
conductcd during project preparation. 36 of these were subjected to further analysis through field
visits and discussions with the communities. Despite their declared objectives, several of these
operations continue to operate on a sector by sector basis rather than in a holistie manner. They
focus on soil conservation, water harvesting and tree planting operations with little work on range
management and livestock production or on integration of agro-sylvo-pastoral activities. Some
operations, however, did succeed in adopting a more integrated approach.
2.24          The following lessons have been drawn from these earlier experiences and have
been taken into account in the new approach under the present project: (i) good knowledge of the
agro-ecological and social features of the targeted areas is essential to provide effective support to
communities in improving their NRM practices; (ii) to give communities a sense of ownership,
rural community participation must not be linmted to an in-kind labor contribution at
implementation but should involve the community in all phases of the CBNRM process, including
diagnosis, design, decision-making, planning, implementation and monitoring and evaluation; (iii)
neither government services nor independent or autonomous project structures have been
completely successful in achieving and sustaining the full range of rural development objectives at
the field level, particularly in the absence of continued extemal assistance; field level actions need
to be complemented with appropriate policy reforms and institution strengthening activities; (iv)
human resource development must be included in any NRM operation; and (v) monitoring and
evaluation, also often neglected, is a complex but essential tool for project adjustment during
inplementation and to draw lessons from ex-post analyses.
2.25          A separate study of farmers' participation, based on a sample of NRM projects,
indicated: (i) top-down approaches that still prevail in many projects, contrary to the participatory
spirit; (ii) a lack of communication and cooperation among projects, even those located in the same
zone; (iii) a limited effort to involve women except when their labor is required; (iv) limited
attention to land tenure issues; and (v) ambiguous relations with community traditional leaders who



-8-
often control land tenure. The participatory process used to prepare the present project is explicitly
aimed at avoiding or confronting these issues. However, these issues should not overshadow the
positive achievements of these pilot projects, namely: (i) converging views amnong all agencies on
the promising avenues offered by the new CBNRM approach; (ii) a genuine interest expressed by
the rural communities in this approach; and (iii) emergence of a growing number of NGOs with
good field experience in rural community development.
111. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives and Rationale
3.1           Objectives. The proposed project constitutes the first five-year time slice of a
long-term National Natural Resources Management Program (NNRMP), expected to reach most of
Niger's rural communities (see Annex 7). The primary objective of the Program is to slow down,
stop and ultimately reverse the current process of land and natural resource degradation in order to
secure sustainable agricultural production and growth, alleviate poverty and improve the living
conditions of Niger's riral commnunities. The Project has tvo specific objectives: (i) to assist
selected rural communities in different agro-ecological zones in designing and implementing
management plans for lheir lands and provide them with the necessary know-how, information,
technical and financial resources and the proper institutional and legal framework to successfully
carry out such an endeavor; and (ii) to assist the Govermnent in building up a national capacity to
promote, assist and coordinate the diverse NRM initiatives underway in Niger in the framework of
the NNRMP, and help prepare NRM policies and strategies, based on lessons learned ftom field
expernence.
3.2           Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The proposed Project supports both the
Government's developnient and IDA's country assistance strategies, as it is geared towards
alleviating poverty and promoting environmentally sustainable development in rural areas of Niger.
The Project's participatory approach corresponds to IDA's strategy to ensure ownership. Similar
approaches have been adopted by most other Sahelian countries, and are strongly supported by the
donor community. The proposed Project would: (i) build upon natural resource management
experience gained under recent projects funded by IDA and other donors; (ii) complement IDA's
key role in agricultural services supported by the ongoing Agricultural Services and Agricultural
Research Projects; (iii) demonstrate IDA's support and commitment to environmental protection;
and (iv) contribute to the continued improvement of donor coordination.
3.3           The proposed Project will lay the foundation for the NNRMP which will constitute
the central framework for dealing with environmental management issues that will be identified and
addressed in the PNEDI) (para. 2.15). The NNRMP will build upon the policy work initiated and
supported by the USAIE) Agricultural Sector Development Grant (ASDG II), particularly given the
new approach USAID is adopting as a result of its "re-engineering" exercise, whereby future
support will be geared more towards activities than to programs. The NNRMP is also expected to
become a useful instnrment for communication, exchange of information, coordination and
harmonization between all the NRM related activities and projects in the country. The NNRMP
should help to leverage a significant amount of ongoing and planned investinent in NRM for more
effective support of CBNRM activities, and to encourage more local level investment as a result of
the favorable conditions and support the NNRMP would generate.



-9-
B. Summarv Description
3.4           The principal Project components are:
(a)    direct technical and financial assistance to communities for the design and
implemientation of Community-Based Natural Resource Management (CBNRM)
Plans involving about 280 selected communities in five districts; and assistance
through ongoing NRM projects, to another 100 comnmunities in Niger;
(b)    provision of services to help achieve the Project's objectives, namely: human
resource development, national assessment of the state of natural resources,
natural resource information networking, research and studies; and
(c)    assistance to decision-makers in devising national NRM policies and strategies.
A detailed description of the major project components is provided in the following section C (2.05
through 2.24). The mcnitoring and evaluation and the overall management support components of
the project are described in paragraphs 4.01 through 4.20.
C. Detailed Proiect Description
Design and Implementation of CBNRM Plans (US$28.7 million)
3.5           Under this component, about 380 communities will receive project support to
prepare and cany out community-based or terroir management plans. About 280 communities
will be located in five of Niger's 31 districts, namely Boboye, Dogondoutchi, Goure, Say and
Tessaoua, and in eight of Niger's thirteen ecological zones, nanely Plateaux, River Valley, Dallols,
Goulbis, Eastern Plains, Pastoral, Dunes and Basins. The eight ecological zones have been selected
on the basis of their socio-economic importance, in terns of their contribution to total food
production for the country, and their relatively large population. Another 100 conununities
currently carrying out NRM activities under other projects will receive additional support, if and
when needed and at their request, with the intent of building up the concept of a national progran
(para. 3.12).
(a)    Direct Assistance to 280 Communities in five districts (US$25.7 million)
3.6           The selection of communities to be involved will take place during project
implementation. Although it is expected that ultimately, in the long-term program (para 4.01), all
communities in Niger will be reached, priority will initially be given to communities that typify the
different physical and socio-economic conditions prevailing in the five districts, so these can be
used as "models" for replicability. For the district of Boboye, where there are two projects
formerly funded by CIDA (Dallol Bosso North and South) and, for the interim period, by USAID,
the proposed Project will promote the continuation of the programs already initiated with promising
results in 38 communities and will select 47 additional communities.
3.7           The CBNRM  Approach described in Annex 7 implies that details about
investment operations to be carried out at the level of each community are not decided in advance
at the design stage of the Project but will be identified by the communities in designing their own
CBNRM Plans. Investments to be considered under the CBNRM Plans are of three types: (i) NRM



-10-
investments providing long-term economic and environmental benefits, (ii) NRM-related economic
investments providing quick financial retums, and (iii) NRM-related social infrastructure
investments. The criteria for eligibility to the project's support of investments and beneficiaries will
be clearly defined in a specifically designed Project Implementation Manual.
3.8           NRM Investments will constitute the core of the investment program. They are
aimed at producing tangible positive results in maintaining or improving natural resource
productivity.  Examples of such investments are: soil erosion control, water-harvesting, soil
fertility improvement, pasture imnprovement, natural forest management, sand dune fixation, tree
planting, bush fire preverition and windbreaks.
3.9           NRM-Related Economic Infrastructure Investments identified and selected under
this category are expected to produce a positive economic and financial returm within a short time
period and support or complement NRM-related investments. Such investments could be: wells,
boreholes and irrigation schemes, construction of storage facilities for grain and production inputs,
cereal banks, rural markets, animal health services, and processing units for food and animal feed.
3.10          NRM-Related Social Infrastructure Investments are generally the primary concern
of the population. Furthermore, thev have an important impact on natural resource management
and sustainable agricultural production. People's health and nutrition affect labor productivity;
poor water and sanitatiori affects health; literacy and education improve people's ability to prevent
diseases, practice birth control and acquire new knowledge and technologies that will help them
improve their productivity and take better care of their environment and natural resources; access
roads bring services and goods to isolated villages and allow for the export of their production
towards potential markets in urban centers.
3.11          The design of CBNRM plans will be camred out during Project implementation
and will vary from comnniunity to community. The cost for implementing each plan will also vary.
Based on several scenarios considered during preparation and on the experience gained from other
projects in Niger and in the region, aggregate investment costs have therefore been estimated on the
basis of average costs.  A  reasonable estimate of average costs per community for the
implementation of a Terroir Management Plan, over a five-year period, is about CFA franc 35
million, equivalent to US$60,000. This amount is based on an average annual financial assistance
of CFA franc 10,000 per person and per year, for five years, and an average population of about
700 people per community. Current average per capita annual income is estimated at CFA franc
50,000. These investment costs do not include the in-kind contribution of the community for labor
and material, estimated at 50 percent of the value of financial assistance or CFA franc 17.5 million
(US$30,000) per community for a five-year penrod.
(b)    Assistance to 100 Communities through Ongoing NRM Projects (US$3.0 million)
3.12          There are more than 10,000 rural communities or terroirs in Niger and under the
direct assistance component of this Project, only 280 terroirs will be assisted. There are also
several other projects in the country promoting NRM and assisting other communities. However,
some funding and implementing agencies have limited resources to fully implement the CBNRM
approach and have expressed a need for additional support. Such support will be provided, upon
request, in order to rapidly increase the number of communities that can benefit from the NRM
progran and accelerate the implementation of CBNRM plans. Support would be in the form of
assistance for the supply of services (information, data, maps, training, surveys and studies) and



-11-
eventually for investments that would be identified in the CBNRM plan but for which no financial
resources are available. Through this component, it is expected that the Project can provide
assistance to about 100 more communities. Assistance will be provided after prior agreement from
the comnmunity, the local authorities, and the current funding agency. Selection will be based on
the willingness of the partners to adopt the CBNRM approach and on their previous performance.
This component will contribute in sharing experiences between different agencies, building up
cooperation among projects, and establishing a more coherent national NRM program.
NRM Support Operations (US$8.0 million)
(a)    Human Resources Development and Public Awareness (US$2.0 million)
3.13          Because the CBNRM Approach is innovative, it will require skills for which no
formal training is available in Niger. A strong training program will therefore constitute one of the
most important conditions for the project's success. All people involved in the core program and
needing to improve their skills will benefit from training: local communities, NNRMP staff,
technical staff from government agencies, district officials, NGOs and the general public will need
to be well prepared to provide support to the program.
(a) Local communities participating in the project will acquire knowledge on the dynamics
of natural resources and skills on terroir diagnosis, management plan design,
negotiation, use of new technologies, equipment maintenance, financial management.
planning, aund monitoring and evaluation.
(b) Project staff will be trained in the conceptual basis, methodology and technical content
of the CBNRM Approach. Training modules will include (1) group dynanics
techniques and communications skills, (ii) data collection and processing methods, (iii)
technological packages and (iv) planning, monitoring and evaluation methods.
Training wi.ll take place in three complementary ways: (i) basic training at the time of
staff recruitment, (ii) field training on most advanced terroirs, and (iii) continuous in-
service training based on annual evaluations and feed back. Project accountants at
central and district level will receive specific training in accounting and procurement.
(c) Local authority members will be trained on main principles and criteria for reviewing
and approving management plans.
(d) Local techrnical partners and extension agents will benefit from a short version of the
training provided to the project staff with specific emphasis on their work areas.
(e) Decision-makers and other senior staff at central level will be sensitized to issues such
as: need for decentralization and local empowerment, land tenure rights as an incentive
to successfiùl natural resource management, need for very strong coordination between
ministries and other government agencies, and transparency.
(f) Information and awareness carnpaigns will be organized for the public on natural
resource management and environmental protection.
3.14          Training of local authorities, local technical partners and extension agents will be
organized at the district level. The training methods --workshops, local field trips, wider study



-12-
tours-- and the message content will be determined, based on focus group interview techniques
successfully utilized in other projects. Details on the Human Resources Development component
are provided in Annex 9 and in the Implementation Manual, as well as in the Working Paper on
HRD available in the Project files (Document no. 4). Close coordination with on-going training
and extension programs, and more particularly with the IDA-supported national Agricultural
Services Project, will be required to ensure consistency, particularly in the technical and
technological packages proposed to rural community members.
(b)    National Natural Resources Assessment and Information Network
(US$2.3 million)
3.15          Nationail Natural Resource Assessment. To respond to the lack of reliable,
comprehensive and compatible data on key environmental and natural resource factors, a National
Natural Resource Assessment wilI be carried out to accuratelv assess, countrywide, the current
potential of natural resources and the real extent of their degradation, examine the causes,
dynanics and trends and measure the effects on agricultural production. sustainability and growth,
on settlement and migration, and on the overall rural economy. This assessment will enable
decision makers (Government and donors) to take appropriate measures, better defme future
strategies and plan ancl target future interventions.  More specifically, the assessment will
determine the reduction and evolution of the vegetation cover and the effects of the different types
of erosion and bush fires, the rate of expansion of cropped land and the consequent reduction of
sylvo-pastoral areas, as well as the shortening of the fallow periods for each district. Evolution
and trends will be compared to data on water resources, rainfall, production systems and
population. This National Natural Resource Assessment will provide a baseline for monitoring
and evaluation of all NRM projects.
3.16          A land use map will be produced using satellite imagerv and will be compared to
data obtained from 1975 aerial photographs, to determine the changes that occurred over the last
20 years. The old 1/200,000 scale base maps will also be updated using digitized satellite imagery.
These base maps will constitute the common geographic reference base which will be utilized to
integrate all other geographic information. This activity will be carried out under the leadership of
the Technical Support IJnit (Unité technique d'appui - UTA) of the Ministrv of Water and
Environment (MWE). An agreement, satisfactorv to IDA, to produce land use maps, compare
them with 1975 data, and deterrnine the changes that have occurred and their causes, has been
signed between NRMU and UTA. A condition of effectiveness will be that UTA has been staffed
in a manner satisfactorv to IDA, and has prepared a work program satisfactory to IDA (para.
6.3a).
3.17          Natural Resource Information Network. Information and data necessary to carry
out NRM Planning as well as Monitoring and Evaluation need to be reliable, compatible and
readilv available. Provision will be made for the establishment of a Natural Resource Information
Network (NRIN) including the identification and collection of missing data, and the verification
and correction of unreliable data. Selected information will be synthesized and grouped in special
data packages for specific needs. A nctwork of information suppliers and users will be set up and
meetings and workshops will bc organized. The NRIN mav later become part of a broader
national Environmental [nformation System (EIS).



-13-
(c)    Mapping and Aerial Photography (US$0.9 rnillion)
3.18          The selection of terroirs, the design and implementation of Terroir Management
Plans, as well as the Project monitoring and evaluation will require (i) aerial photographs and
photomosaics at 1/40,C000-50,000 scale for the five selected districts to locate terroirs to be
selected and (ii) detailed maps of the selected terroirs at 1/10,000 scale for the diagnosis and
design stage, and for further monitoring and evaluation. As part of the institution building effort,
support will be provided to the Niger National Geographic Institute (IGNN) to manage this
operation. Photographs. will be taken in Year-One of the Project by an intemational firm under
IGNN supervision. Prints, photomosaics and maps will be produced by IGNN. An agreement
between NRMU and IGNN, satisfactory to IDA, has been signed for the management of the
mapping and acrial photography services by IGNN.
(d)    Rescarch, Studies and Technical Assistance (US$2.8 million)
3.19          Rescarch and Studies. At the timc of project design, a large array of simple NRM
technologies, proven successful under comparable conditions, were inventoried (see
Implementation Volume on Menu of Technical Interventions). No need for further research or
studies was identified at this stage, except for the monitoring and evaluation of project
implementation and impact (see below, paras. 4.18-4.20). During implementation, however,
problems may occur that should be reviewed by research specialists. Also, new technologies may
be developed that need to be studied and tested before dissemination. The Niger National
Agronomic Rescarch Institute (INRAN), which is presently receiving support under the IDA-
funded Agricultural Research Project, including support for NRM research, will carry out any
necessarv research and studies as part of its program, using existing financial resources.
Additional funds (US$0.5M) have been earmarked, however, for activities not included in
INRAN's regular work program or to be carried out by other agencies, such as studies on socio-
anthropology, land tenure, and decentralization. Required action-oriented rescarch would be
included in the project's annual work plan to be reviewed with and approved by IDA. Such
research could include, for instance, (i) design of cost-effective stone bunds ("diguettes"); (il)
assessment of animal impact on plant biomass resources; (iii) sustainable watershed revegetation
(vegetation to be used, establishment, management); (iv) design of cost-effective torrent correction
work (using stones, wood, cement); (v) selection of species relevant to agro-forestry; (vi) reliable
techniques for rehabililtating degraded rangeland (pitting, harrowing, animal impact); (vii)
introduction of North African covered cistems for drinking water; and (viii) together with the
Agricultural Services Project. research on relevant agricultural tillage and fertilization techniques.
3.20          Technical Assistance and Consultant Services.  People with technical skills
required for the implemrentation of this program are not available in sufficient number in Niger,
neither in government, iior in non-government or private agencies that will be involved in project
inplementation. In addition to short-term training that will be provided to Project staff, short and
medium-term technical support will be necessary, at least for the starting years. Qualifications
being equal, priority should be given to locally recruited staff paid at local rates. Medium-term
technical assistance (TA) will be sought for expertise in (i) the design of participatory adult
training programs; (ii) tlhe inter-sectoral planning of community natural resource management; (iii)
monitoring and evaluation; and (iv) the NGO, women and local community participation aspects of
the Project. This TA would amount to approximately 150 staff-months distributed over the five
years of Project implementation, with a focus on the first two years. The main purpose of this TA
would be to backstop arnd develop skills among the staff of the NRMU. Needs for such TA cannot



-14-
be defined precisely until the recruitment of NRMU staff is completed prior to project
effectiveness. Terms of Reference (TORs) for NRMU staff and, if needed, for their TA
counterparts, will be included in the Project Implementation Manual. They will explicitly require
the consultants to transfer their knowledge to their local counterparts in the NRMU and in the other
participating agencies, and would specify that the success of this transfer wilI be a major factor in
the evaluation of the consultants' performance.
3.21          Short-term consultancies will be carried out under the Project for an estimated
total of 70 staff-months over a five year period. These consultancies will provide technical
expertise and advice in (i) the different sectors and sub-sectors the Project will be associated with,
such as agriculture, water, livestock and forestry; (ii) economics; (iii) financial management and
external audits; (iv) institutional building; and (v) monitoring and evaluation. Half of the cost for
technical assistance will be borne, in the form of grants, by Norway and Denmark as part of their
cofinancing. In addition, technical assistance will be provided by a consortiun headed by the
Institute of Geography at the University of Copenhagen to help Niger implement the National
Natural Resource Assessment component and the National Resource Information Network under
parallel grant funding from the Government of Denmark. This parallel funding is not included in
the total project costs.
Implementation. Management and Monitoring Support (US$4.5 million)
3.22          The information gathered by the Project staff during implementation, particularly
through the system of Monitoring and Evaluation and the studies, will be utilized to assist the
Government in updating and improving the national NRM policy adopted in 1992 as part of its
rural development policy (para 2.13). This will be done by making the information produced or
collected on NRM available to decision makers in a treated form; carrying out special studies and
preparing issue papers and reports; helping in the drafting of strategy or policy documents;
organizing special meetings and workshops; and participating in the Rural Development Sub-
Committee meetings.
3.23          Financial support will be provided to the Rural Development Sub-Committee to
help them monitor the imiplementation of the Rural Development Policy Framework (RDPF), and
to work on its regular updating. The funds will essentially support a small secretariat, and pay for
meetings, report writing, publication and field trips.
3.24          Support will be provided for the establishment and functioning of Land Tenure
Commissions in three of the five districts covered by the Project in order to test, monitor and study
the applicability of the Rural Code du ring the implementation of the CBNRM management plans,
assess its socio-economic impact, and recommend appropriate corrective measures in terms of legal
amendments or additional legislation. Support will also be provided to the Permanent Secretariat
for the Rural Code to help them in setting up the Land Tenure District Commissions and
monitoring their functio:ning, taking stock of lessons learned, and drafting and processing
implementation decrees for the Rural Code. The financial support will be for consultants,
meetings, report writing and publication, and field trips. A detailed budget has been worked out for
the establishment of the tliree Land Tenure Commissions and a program of work and budget will
be submitted for the direct financial support to the Permanent Secretariat.



-15-
D. Proiect Costs
3.25               Total projecit costs are estimated at US$42.7 million on the basis of July  1994
prices with a foreign exchange component of US$18.0 million or 42 percent. These costs are net
of taxes and import duties and include physical contingencies estimated at 2 percent of total base
costs and price contingencies estimated at 4 percent of total base costs. Price escalation factors
follow the February 1994 forecasts of international inflation for foreign goods and services (8
percent) and estimnated annual inflation in Niger for local costs (6.6 percent). The breakdown of
costs by component is summarized below.  All costs, price contingencies and inflation rates are
based on data collected in July 1994 during the appraisal. Forecasts of inflation rates incorporated
in the price contingencies are based on the consumer price index indicators. Summary Cost
Tables, by component and category of expenditure, are shown in Annex 1.
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
PROJECT COMPONENTS                              (FCFA '000)                            (USS '000)            Percent    Percent
For.      Total
._________                                      Exch.     Costs
Local         Foreign        Total       Local    Foreign    Total
A. Implementation of NRM Plans           10,767,203     4,867,437    15,634,640   18,405       8,320    26,725         31       66.6
I - Intervention in 5 Districts        9,650,003     4,388,637    14,038,640    16,495      7,501    23,997         31        59.8
a - Boboye                            2,250,472     1,165,720      3,416,192    3,847      1,993      5,840        34        14.6
b - Dogondoutchi                       1,849,883      805,.729     2,655,612    3,162       1,377     4,540         30       11.3
c c- Goure                             1,849R883      805,729      2.655,612     3,162      1,377     4,540         30       11.3
d - Say                                1,849,883      805,729      2,655,612     3,162      1,377     4,540         30       11.3
e - Tessaoua                           1,849,883      805,729      2,655,612    3,162       1,377     4,540         30       11.3
2- Assistance to Ongoing Projects     1,117,200       478,800      1,596,000     1,910       819      2,728        30         6.8
B. Project Support Operations             1,754,843     2,623,413      4,378,255    3,000      4,484      7,484        60       18.7
1- Human Resource Development            862,946       287,770      1,150,715    1,475        492      1,967         25        4.9
2- NNRA & NRIN                           447,777       791,663       1,239,440      766      1,353     2,119         64        53
3- Mapping, Cartography                   107,744      404,631        512,375       175       658        833         79        2.0
4- Research, Studies, Tech. Ass.         336,376      1,139,349      1,475,725      584      1,981     2,565         77        6.5
C. Supportto Nation. Pol.& Strat.           102,510        34,240       136,750       175         59       234         26        0.6
1- Land Tenure Cotnmissions               80,170        25,730        105,900       137        44        181         24        0.5
2- Support to SCDR                        22,340          8,510        30,850        38         15        53         28        0.1
D. Monitoring and Evaluation               363,654.       710,032      1,073,685      622      1,214    Ij36          66        4.6
1- Regular Monitoring                     282,204       465,292        747,495      483        795      1,278        62         3.2
2- Scientific Monitoring                   81,450       244,740        326,190       139       419        558        75         1.4
E. Project Management                     798,813.0       556,277      1,355,090     1,365       951      2,316        41        5.8
F. Refunding of PPF                               -       887,500       887,500          -     1,500      1,5         100        3.7
TOTAL BASE COSTS                         13,787,022     9,668,898    23,455920   23,568    16,528    40,096            41        100
Physical Contingencies           203,760        304,566       508,326       348        521       869         60          2
Price Contingencies             1,161,187     1,125,190      2,286,376      721        997      1,719        58          4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      15,151,968    11,098,654    26,250,622   24,637    18,046    42,684           42        106
(net of taxes and duttes)            _                                                                                                i_



-16-
E. Financine Plan
3.26          Co-financing of about US$8.7 million equivalent has been confirmed by the
Governments of Denmark (IDA-adrninistered grant of US$5.0 million) and Norway (IDA-
administered grant of US$3.7 million) before negotiations. A condition of effectiveness would be
that the Governnent of Niger has fulfilled all conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of
these grants (para. 6.3g). The contribution of the Nigerien Government would be US$1. 1 million
equivalent (in addition to taxes and duties) and the communities would contribute the equivalent of
US$6.2 million. Therefore, the financing plan stands as follows:
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN
(USSM)     (percent)
Ggvernment                1.1        2.6
Local Communities        6.2        14.5
IDA                      26.7       62.5
Denmark                   5.0        11.7
Norwayv  3.7                       j 8.7      j
TOTAL               42.7       100
3.27          The IDA credit would represent 62.5 percent of total project costs and would be
on standard IDA ternns, with 40 years maturity. The financing plan and the project costs include
valuation of the labor and materials to be provided by the rural communities for execution of
community-based natural resource management (CBNRM) plans, based on an opportunity cost of
CFA franc 500 per person-day. This "equity" contribution by communities to the project will be
substantial, corresponding to 14.5 percent of total project costs. The Government's cash
contribution (not including taxes and duties), represents 2.6 percent of total project costs and
would be used to meet part, of the incremental operating costs. Because this project is the first time
slice of a long-term progiram whose full benefits wilI not be realized for many years, external
financing of incremental recurrent costs will not be on a declining-share basis.



-17-
F. Procurement Arraneements
3.28             Table  3  below  summarizes the project cost by  disbursement category  and
proposed procurement method.   Niger's procurement laws and  regulations conform  to  IDA
procurement Guidelines.   Goods  and  Works will be  procured  in  accordance  with  IDA's
Procurement Guidelines (January 1995).
Table 3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Method -( US million)
PROJECT ELEMENTS            ICB       LIBe/    NCB c/    OTHER e/        NIF       TOTAL COST
Civi Workmb'1
. contracted work                                  2.0         3.0                        5.0
(1.8)       (2.7)                     (4.5)
materials                                          2.4        8.4                        10.8
(1.8)      (5.7)                      (7.5)
*labor                                             z6.2f/                                 6.2
Service Contracts                         1.2                                               1.2
(0.5)                                           (0.5)
Vehilles and Equipment
Vehicles                      1.7                 0.2         0.2                        2.1
(1.7)               (0.2)       (0.1)                      (2.0)
Equipment c/                                      2.2          1.4                       3.6
(1.2)      (0.7)                      (1.9)
Consultants & Studies                                            2.8                        2.8
(1.9)                     (1.9)
Trahnlng                                                         1.1                        1.1
(0.7)                     (0.7)
Incremental Operating Coats d/                                   7.4         1.0g/          8.4
________________________ ____   ________   __________ (6.2)   -             (6.2)
Refunding of PPF                                                 1.5                       1.5
_________   ___________   ~(1.5)   __ _ _ _ _ _(1.5)
TOTAL (net of taxes and duty)   1.7       1.2        6.8        258          7.2           42.7
ofwhich (IDA)-  (1.7)                  (0.5)      (5.0)      (19.5)                     (267
a/   All values are net of taixes and duties. Figures in parentheses show respective amounts financed by IDA.
b/   Includes contracted works as well as materials, equipment and labor.
c/   Includes Environmental Information System and GIS equipment as well as office equipment.
d/   Includes expenditures for office consumables (including telephone and other communication expenses), staff
travel and associated subsistence allowances, salary for incremental contractual and temporary staff, office
rental, office supplies and maintenance, and fuel for vehicles.
e/   Difference between total costs and IDA contribution under LIB, NCB and OTIER to be financed by Denmark
and Norway.
f    To be financed by the communities.
g/   To be financed by the Borrower.
NIF: Not IDA-financed.
3.29             Civil U'orks.  The IDA Credit will finance US $12.0 million, or 55%  of the US
$22.0 million estimated total cost for civil works. It will cover skilled labor, material and
equipment, excluding local labor costs which would be the in-kind contribution of the communities.
The civil works prograrn consists of a wide variety of small works carried out by communities to
maintain and/or improve natural resource productivity. It covers works such as soil erosion
control, water-harvesting, tree planting, bush fire prevention, windbreaks, wells, and grain storage
facilities. The cost of these would not generally exceed US$20,000 equivalent each including the
estimated value of labor provided by community members which will represent the communities'
direct contribution.



-18-
3.30          The entire civil works program will, with a few exceptions, not be appropriate for
ICB procedures, due to their small size, geographic spread and high transportation costs.  No
contract is expected to cost more than US$100,000. Contracts above US$30,000 and less than
US$100,000, for an aggregate amount of US$4.4 million (US$3.6 million IDA-financed), will be
procured through NCB procedures. The rest of the civil works program includes small works
estimated to cost less than US$30,000 each, for an aggregate US$8.4 million (US$5.7 million
IDA-financing), and are unlikely to attract competition by either foreign or local modern-sector
firms. It will be up to lhe communities, with technical support provided by District Teams, to
contract for services by local artisans and to undertake procurement of locally available materials,
following commercial practices -- contracts being awarded on the basis of local shopping
procedures with price quotations obtained from at least three contractors/suppliers. The District
Teams would be responsible for verififng and certifying that this procedure is followed. An
agreement, prepared by the District Team and signed with the community, would determine the
scope of the works, the estimated costs, and the terms and conditions under which the grant would
be administered. Grants would first be paid out of the government counterpart funds to eligible
communities. Payments %vould be made on a tranche basis, provided works have been delivered in
accordance with quantity and quality agreed upon, and certified by the District Teams. IDA funds
would serve to reimburse grants paid to communities out of the government counterpart funds
account, provided these payments are fully documented by the related contracts and certified works
completion.
3.31          A specific community participation procurement method will also be used in the
event of special works cir materials not offered at the community or district levels or in their
proximity. Procurement of such items would be managed and awarded by the NRMU in liaison
with the District Teams., according to agreed procedures. It is estinated that ten to twenty
contracts would be awarded under this procedure cach year (up to US$3.0 million, US$2.7 million
IDA-financed). Through District Teans, the NRMU would maintain a roster of qualified
contractors and suppliers with adequate experience, would permit additional applications at any
time, and would not preclude foreign firms from participating. Standard bidding documents will
propose a reference price and indicate unit prices and quantities. Contractors/suppliers would be
invited to bid by way of discounts either on the total or on the unit prices. Contracts would be
awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder based on criteria specified in the bidding documents. The
NRMU would open bids in public and have full authority to contract. It would justify, however, in
writing and prior to signing the contract and with reference to the bidding documents' criteria, any
decision for award. For contracts with fewer than thrce bidders the NRMU would request IDA
non-objection prior to sigrning the contract.
3.32          Goods. Goods financed by the project (US$5.7 million, of which the IDA Credit
would finance US$3.9 million) include furniture, equipment, office supplies and vehicles. Goods
that can be grouped into packages of at least US$100,000 each would be procured through ICB.
The Bank's standard bidding documents would be used. A preferential margin of 15 percent or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f prices of competing goods would be
given to domestic manufactured goods in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for al] ICB
procurement. All bids would be submitted on a c.i.f. basis for imported goods and on an ex-
factory basis for locally nmanufactured goods. Goods that cannot be grouped into packages of at
least US$100,000 each would be procured through NCB, provided the aggregate amount of such
procurement does not exceed US$2.4 million (US$1.4 million IDA-financed). Small quantities of
office supplies, consumable materials and spare parts, which are available off-the-shelf and cannot



-19-
be grouped into bid packages of at least US$30,000 may be procured through national shopping,
based on price quotations of at least three reliable suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount of
such procurement does not exceed US$1.6 million (US$0.8 million IDA-financed).
3.33          Service Contracts. Of the total costs for acrial photographs and satellite imagery
(US$1.2 million), the IDA Credit would finance US$0.5 million. IGNN would be responsible to
manage the production of maps, aerial photography and satellite imagery. It will be contracting for
specialized services (aerial photographic survey and satellite imagery) from private firms as
required, through LIB, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines, provided that the aggregate
amnount of such procurement does not exceed US$500,000. IGNN will execute directly other tasks
such as map production.
3.34          Consultant Services. Research and Studies. Of the total costs for consultant
services, research and studies (US$2.8 million), the IDA Credit would finance US$1.9 million.
Services would be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
(August 1981). Services to be contracted include short and medium-term technical assistance,
contracted research and studies, and technical and financial auditing. For the district of Boboye,
the management of all the operations would be contracted out on a sole-source basis, subject to
Bank's prior approval, with an NGO (ONVPE) with unique experience in this region and expertise
in the field of assignment. The relatively small value of the contract (US$240,000) wiIl cover
incremental recurrent costs to continue and expand the NRM program in this district. This contract
will be for one year and can be renewed subject to satisfactory uerformance.
3.35          Review by IDA. IDA-financed contracts for goods and works above a threshold
value of US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. Selective
post-review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels would apply to about one in three
contracts. Prior IDA review would apply to consultant contracts estimated to cost more than
US$75,000 equivalent for firms and US$30,000 for individuals. However, prior IDA review
would apply below these thresholds for terms of reference,  single-source hiring of firms,
assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA, and amendments of contracts raising the
contract value to US$75,000 or more for firms and US$30,000 or more for individuals. Contracts
for goods and services procured under parallel financing arrangements would be awarded in
accordance with the cofinanciers' procurement regulations. All contracts financed under co-
financing administered by IDA would be subject to Bank guidelines. Finalization of standard
bidding documents, satisfactory to IDA, for critical procurement of goods and works for ICB and
NCB would be a condition of effectiveness as part of the Implementation Manual (para. 6.4b).
3.36          Assurance been obtained during negotiations that procurement of the goods, works
and consultants' services required for the project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit will take place in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA (para. 6. la).
Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows: (i) prompt reporting of contract
award information bv the Borrower, (ii) comprehensive semi-annual reports to the Bank by the
Borrower, indicating: (a) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project,
including best estimates of allowances for physical and price contimgency; (b) revised timing of
procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for
individual contracts; (c) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement;
and (d) a project final report prepared within three months of the credit's closing date.



-20-
G. Disbursements
3.37          Disbursements under contracts for goods and works costing less than US$100,000
equivalent, and disbursements for training, workshops, and incremental operating costs would be
made against statements of expenditures certified by the manager and the chief accountant of the
NRMU. SOEs would also be used for expenditures under contracts for consulting services costing
less than US$75,000 equivalent for firms and US$30,000 equivalent for individual consultants.
Supporting documentation would be retained by the NRMU for inspection in the course of normal
project supervision by IDA and by independent auditors. The NRMU would be responsible for
preparing and presenting to IDA withdrawal applications for all categories of expenditures
incurred under the project. The IDA credit will be disbursed as shown in Table 4 below.
Table 4: DISBURSEMENT OF THE IDA CREDIT
IDA        % of Expenditures to be
Category of Expenditure            Allocation       Financed by IDA
(US$ million)  Foreign       Local
.__________________________________________  __          Exp. (§/0)   Exp. (%)
1. Civil Works                                      10.7       100          95
2. Goods (Vehicles & Equipment and suney material)   4.0       100          95
24. Consultants, Studies & Training         |        2.3       100          100
7. Incremental Operating Costs                       5.7       NA           95
8. Refunding of PPF                                  1.5       NA           NA
9. Unallocated                                       2.5       NA           NA
l TOTAL   _                                           26.7                ____._.
3.38          The current disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Niger is 7 /z years.
However, the present project will disburse more rapidly because it will benefit from the experience
acquired under other on-going NRM projects in the country as well as the IDA-supported projects
in Burkina Faso and Mali. It is therefore estimated that a 6-year disbursement profile will be more
appropriate. A schedule of disbursement is given in Annex 2.
3.39          IDA will finance 74 percent and other donors will finance 14% of the total
incremental operating costs. A large share of these costs represents the technical support provided
by local contractual staff, who wilI assist local communities in the design and implementation of
management plans. Such assistance will terminate once the targeted communities have been
organized and trained, their management plans designed and approved, and the main investments
completed. Afterwards, these communities will be able to maintain these investments and will only
need limited technical support which will be provided by the existing Agricultural Support
Services. With its 12 percent contribution to project total incremental costs, it can be expected that
the Government will be in a position to continue providing support to those samne comrunities, in a
sustainable manner.
3.40          Special Account (SA). To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account with a
maximum total advance equivalent to US$1.6 million, representing about four months' project
expenditures, would be made available to the project. The Special Account will be at a commercial
bank acceptable to IDA. The initial deposit to the Special Account would be limited to US$0.8
million and additional advances up to a total of US$1.6 million would be made available when the
total disbursed under the Credit amounts to about US$9.0 million. Replenishment requests to the
Special Account would be submitted to IDA on a monthly basis or when the total debited from the



-21-
Special Account amounts to one third of the initial deposit, whichever is sooner. In view of the
availability of the Special Account, the minimnum withdrawal applications for direct payment by
IDA would be 20 percent of funds in deposit in the Special Account.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Proiect OrEanization
4.1          The project organization will be based on the principles of transparency,
communication and local community empowerment. In order to facilitate project implementation
and particularly the establishment, implementation and monitoring of the CBNRM plans, a manual
of simple guidelines and forms would be prepared by the NRMU. This Implementation Manual
would include a description of the Project components; standard agreements and contracts;
disbursement forms; guidelines concerning the minimum community contribution; types of
investments or actions eligible for project funds; the type of project funds available for the
community, and information on alternative sources of funding. The Implementation Manual would
be reviewed periodically, based on the feed-back obtained from its users.  A condition of
effectiveness would be the adoption by the Borrower of an Implementation Manual, satisfactory to
IDA (para. 6.3b). This version of the Manual shall not be considered as a rigid and definitive
framework but rather a working tool that is expected to be periodically updated and improved by
the NNRMP staff in the course of implementation. Ail changes, however, will be subject to prior
IDA approval before coming into effect. The mechanism for project implementation is outlined in
the following paragraphs. While a number of bodies, organizations and committees are described
in these paragraphs, it is important to acknowledge that project will be inplemented largely
through national institutions, committees and village organizations that already exist. The creation
of new management structures will be minimized, and only undertaken to improve the consultation
process and coordination among existing bodies.
Local Community Level
4.2          A representative Local Council for Natural Resource Management (LCNRM) will
constitute the link between the local community and all the outside partners for NRM-related
matters. Since under the Decentralization Lawv (para. 2.12), only municipalities -made of several
communities- are recognized as legal entities with financial and administrative autonomy,
agreements made between local communities and the Government will be endorsed by the Council
of the municipality where the community is located. Local Initiative Groups (Groupes d'action
spécifique) may be created by members of the community to carry out NRM-related activities of
interest to the community and will be eligible to receive Project support.
Liaison Between Community and District
4.3          30 Extension Agents. already placed under the IDA-supported Agricultural
Extension Project, will be actively involved in the NRM Project. They will participate in the
selection and diagnosis of terroirs, and will, as part of their regular tasks, assist communities
during the design and implementation of management plans; the dissemination of appropriate
technologies will be instrumental. As the two projects are complementary, work programs for both
projects will be reconciled to ensure efficient use of staff time and skills. An additional 35 Liaison



-22-
Agents wilI be recruited. They will act as facilitators to improve communication between the
Project team at district level and the communities preparing the Terroir Management Plans. They
will work closely with the Extension Agents of the area. Liaison Agents will have adequate
communication skills and knowledge in socio-anthropology, group dynamics and community
organization. Work of both types of agents at community level will be compleinentary.
District Level
4.4           One NF'M District Team (DT) will operate in each of the five districts of the
Project. Each DT will have a Team Leader, a Monitoring and Evaluation specialist, an accountant
and two Community Support Groups (CSGs). Each CSG will consist of four technicians with
skills in areas such as socio-anthropology, social organization, land-use management, agro-sylvo-
pastoral management, women in development, and land tenure. The role of the CSG will be to
provide technical support to the selected communities in the preparation and implementation of
their Terroir Management Plans. In the case of the district of Boboye, the two projects (Dallol
Bosso Nord and Dallol Bosso Sud) previously financed by CIDA, will be merged under the
management of one single DT whose task will be entrusted to ONVPE, the local NGO presently
managing the Dallol Bosso Nord project. An agreement will be signed between the NRMU and
ONVPE to this effect. The project will work with NRM District Committees consisting of
members of the existing District Technical Committees (COTEARs, para. 2.16), representing
central ministries, and members of the District Councils (CONSARs) and Municipal Councils
(para. 2.12). Their role will be to review and approve the CBNRM plans and monitor their
implementation. Until the elected councils are in place, the NRM District Commnittees will consist
of members of COTEARs and community members designated by the community.
Central Level
4.5          The exisfing NRM Unit (NRMU) will coordinate and manage Project activities. It
will be directly responsib]le for (i) assisting and supervising the field operations staff; (ii) managing
the human resource development component; (iii) carrying out monitoring and evaluation; (iv)
gathering and disseminating information; (v) capitalizing on past and current experiences; and (vi)
advising decision-makers on NRM strategies and policies. It will provide technical support to --
and supervise-- the District Teams in the field, ensuring that the CBNRM Approach is properly
followed. District Teams however are expected to rapidly take up greater responsibility, and reach
a high level of autonomy vis-à-vis the NRMU. A NRMU Coordinator, satisfactory to IDA, has
been appointed. Assurance was given at negotiations that NRMP staff will not be moved or
replaced before the completion of a three-year assignment period without prior approval from IDA
(para. 6. 1b). A condition of effectiveness is that, in addition to the NRMU Coordinator, at least
six technical experts, the procurement expert and the financial expert have been recruited with
terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.3c).
4.6          To efficiently manage the NRMP, the existing NRMU will be strengthened to
include (i) eleven technical experts in one or more of the following areas: agronomy, forestry,
livestock, socio-anthropology and gender issues, agro-economy, land tenure and decentralization,
land use planning, monitoring and evaluation, training, and NRM and environmental information
systems; (ii) one financial and one procurement expert; and (iii) support staff. Four to five of the
team members will corne -if available- from the key ministries involved in NRM and rural
development, namnely Agriculture and Livestock, Water and Environment, and Finance and
Planning; the rest will be recruited on a contractual basis, in consultation with these ministries.



-23-
4.7           A Steering Committee for the National Natural Resource Management Program
(NRMSC) will be set up lby the Borrower. It will consist of selected members of the existing Rural
Development Sub-Committee (RDSC) (para. 2.16) and community representatives. The NRMSC
will be chaired by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Agrieulture and meet at least twice a
year. In addition to approving the project's annual work plans and reviewing its past activities, the
NRMSC will seek to obtain full support for program activities on the part of all institutions
involved. Assurance was obtained at negotiations that the Borrower will establish and maintain for
the duration of the Project, the NNRMP Steering Committee, with a composition and functions
acceptable to IDA (para. 6.1c). A condition of Board presentation is that the NRMSC is
effectively established with a composition and terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para. 6.2a).
An advisory group comjposed of NRMSC members and donor representatives, will facilitate
consistency of approach nationally.
B. Implementation of Project Components
Design and Implementation of CBNRM Plans
4.8           Support to Selected Comnmunities. In accordance with the Community-Based
Natural Resource Management approach (Annex 7), the District Team members and their Liaison
Agents would work directly with the selected communities, according to the steps summarized
below and more fully described in the Implementation Manual:
(a)   launching; of an active awareness and trust building program with the assistance of
the local technical services at district and community level, and particularly with
the assistance of the extension agents;
(b)    election of Local Councils for NRM (LCNRM) by the communities. Election
procedures will be transparent, clearly defined in advance in accordance with
Niger's prevailing laws, and endorsed by the Municipal Council when the latter
exists or by the District Council;
(c)    diagnosis of terroirs and design of Management Plans by the community members
supported by the District Teams, the Liaison Agents, and the Extension Agents.
Assistance from existing of specialized technical services will be sought whenever
necessary and available. Coordination will be monitored by the current District
Technical Committee. Issues related to land tenure will be brought to the attention
of the auiLhorities and dealt with before any further work can take place in the
community;
(d)    preparation of an agreement by the LCNRM and the District Team (DT) to be
signed by the chairperson of the LCNRM, and submitted to the NRM District
Committee for review and approval. The Plan will specify the actions to be
carried out, the timetable, the costs involved and the source and type of funding to
be provided for each action; and
(e)   implemenliation of CBNRM plans by the communities, with technical assistance
from the I)Ts and the local technical services. Operations that cannot be executed
by the cornmunities will be contracted out to private or public agencies. The head



-24-
of the DT will sign local contracts and approve and process the payments after
prior agreement of the LCNRM.
4.9          Technical and Financial Assistance to Oneoing Projects. Ongoing projects that
have adopted the CBNRM approach and that need extra support, can receive technical and
financial assistance under the proposed Project. Requests would be addressed to the NRMU by the
concerned community and the project's implementing agency after agreement of the funding
agency. Support for activities such as training, design of management plans or supply of
information, data or maps will be provided by the NRMU or by the service or agency contracted to
carry out the service, in the framework of the proposed Project. Physical investments that are part
of a Terroir Management Plan, prepared with the active participation of the community, could be
considered for funding under NNRMP.
NRM Support Operations
4.10         Human Resource Development.  Under the Human Resource Development
component, the NRMU, with the help of the training expert, will plan, coordinate and monitor
training activities (Annex 9). The strategy for this component will aim at adapting the training
program to the changing needs of the Project. The skills gap analysis and module design would be
subcontracted to NGOs and/or private training consulting firms. These firms would establish a
database of training resources available in Niger and its neighboring countries (facilitators,
resource persons, training facilities), which could be contracted for implementation of the modules.
Such data bases are already being established for Burkina Faso and Mali through the IDA-
supported NRM prograns in these countries. The Implementation Manual will provide details on
the objectives of the Human Resource Development component, the different target groups and
their needs, the training prograns, the training of trainers, the budget, and a list of the existing
training centers. This information can also be found in the Working Paper on Human Resource
Development in the Project files (Document no. 4).
4.11         National Natural Resource Assessment (NNRA).  This component will be
inplemented by UTA (para. 3.15) with the assistance of a consortium headed by the Institute of
Geography of the University of Copenhagen (para 3.21). Detailed methodology and procedures
have been described in a Working Paper available in the project files and will be included in the
Implementation Manual.
4.12         Natural Resource Information Network (NRIN).  The NRMU staff member
specialized in Environment Information Systems (para. 3.6) will supervise the proper functioning
of the NRIN. The key institutions that will be involved are the Niger National Agronomic
Research Institute (INRAN), the Niger National Geographic Institute (IGNN) and the Technical
Support Unit (UTA) in the Ministry of Environment, with the assistance of the consortium headed
by the Institute of Geography of the University of Copenhagen (para 3.21).
4.13         Research and Studies. Most of the research will be carried out by INRAN as part
of its research program under the IDA-supported Agricultural Research Project. Additional
research not within the mandate of INRAN that may be required will be contracted out by the
NRMU to private agencies or carried out by other public agencies under an agreement with the
NRMU.



-25 -
NRM Policy
4.14          NRMU staff will provide support to the Rural Development Sub-Committee
(RDSC). Specific tasks rnay include: providing information, carrying out studies and surveys,
preparing draft position or policy papers and reports, and participating in working sessions on
NRM policy and strategy. One of the members of the NRMU will be designated as a team leader
for formal liaison with the RDSC. In addition, financial assistance will be provided to the RDSC
to enable them to carry out field visits and organize meetings, working sessions and seminars. A
budget will be prepared by the RDSC each year and funds will be directly disbursed by the NRMU
on the basis of the agreed upon action programn and budget.
4.15          Funds for the establishment and operation of three Land Tenure Commissions in
three of the districts covcred by the Project, and for assisting the Permanent Secretariat for the
Rural Code, will be disbursed directly by the NRMU on the basis of an annual work program of
work and budget to be approved by the NRMSC during the annual review meetings (para. 4.26).
Implementation Schedule
4.16          A Project Implementation Schedule is attached at Annex 3. Actions to be carried
out in Year-one and Year*-two are clearly defined, but actions to be taken in the subsequent years
are more indicative than pirescriptive: the bottom-up nature of the project requires that flexibility be
a keynote from the start. It is to be expected that demand from rural communities for CBNRM
plans, and technical staffs capacities to respond, will differ from district to district and perhaps
within districts. The implementation schedule will therefore be adjusted annually in the light of
communities' demands at the time of the annual review meetings.
C. C-oordination with Other Proiects and Proerams
4.17          The proposed Project would be closely coordinated with other ongoing projects
and programs in the rural sector. Coordination would be the responsibility of the NRMU and the
NRM District Teams. Particular efforts will bc made to ensure fult cooperation with projects and
programs closely relatcd to the NNRMP, for example, the USAID-funded Agricultural Sector
Development Grant (AS[)G 11), as well as the IDA-funded Agricultural Services Project, the
Agricultural Research Project, and the Energy Projcct. The objectives of the national Agricultural
Services Program and the NNRMP are complementary; implementation of these two projects will
therefore be closely coordinated, particularly at the community level. Similarly, cooperation will
be sought with the Agricultural Research Program. Draft agreements outlining the modalities for
such cooperation were discussed during negotiations.
D. Monitorin! and Evaluation
4.18          Careful and regular monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the Project is needed to
help decision-makers at aill levels obtain quick and frequent feedback on the implementation
process, and to make appropriate adjustments whenever required. Because of the grassroots nature
of the proposed project and its bottom-up approach, details of the exact location, type and number
of investments at field level cannot be known before agreeing on Comnmunity NRM Plans. The
Project design is inherently flexible, which makes the role of process monitoring far more
import2ant, and also more clifficult, than simply assessing the implementation of prescribed plans.



-26-
4.19          Project monitoring would be carried out using the indicators listed in Annex 5,
which were discussed during appraisal and agreed at negotiations. The following four primary
performance indicators will be used to monitor project performance during the annual reviews
(para 4.26).: (i) number of NRM plans approved by NRM District Committees; (ii) proportion of
village land placed under the sustainable management systems promoted by the project; (iii) the
number of fully operational community-based natural resources management plans; and (iv) the
level of co-financing by local communities. Project monitoring will be managed by the NRMU's
Monitoring and Evaluation expert. Details on both monitoring and evaluation activities will be
described in detail in the Implementation Manual. Two areas would be the focus of intensive
monitoring:
(a) Monitoring of project implementation, assessing the progress made, in qualitative and
quantitative terms, with regard to the pre-established work programn and budget;
(b) Monitoring and evaluation of project impact with regard to the project's development
objectives a,nd expected results. Impact monitoring and evaluation will be performed
at three levels: (i) the individual investment level, to appreciate the efficacy of each
tool or teclnology; (ii) the terroir level, to measure the effects of the package of
actions proposed in the CBNRM plan; and (iii) the overall progran level, to
appreciate whether the Project institutional, legal and technological support activities
created the proper enabling environment for success of the project. Impact monitoring
will be carried out for all the terroirs supported by the Project by the DTs assisted by
local technical staff. Community members will fully participate in this exercise. A
more scientific impact monitoring will be carred out by INRAN on a small sample of
terroirs.
4.20          A modlel M&E system, adapted to NRM, will be developed before credit
effectiveness with the assistance of the Sahel Center of Laval University in Canada and a
consultant expert in monitoring and evaluation. The communities, local and central authorities, as
well as donor agencies aLre among the important groups that will be using the results of M&E. The
efficiency of the M&E tool will be annually assessed for further improvements. Internal as well as
external reviews will be carried out. The adoption of a project monitoring and evaluation system
satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness, as part of the Implementation Manual
(para. 6.3b). The Government will maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable the project
to monitor and evaluate progress on an on-going basis in accordance to indicators acceptable to
IDA.
E. Approval Procedures and Financine Mechanisms for Communitv-Based Investments
4.21          Project Management and Accounting.   A  computerized management and
accounting system will be established under the NRMU by consultants funded by the Project
Preparation Facility. The Borrower has drafted a consultant contract, with termns of reference and
qualifications acceptable to IDA, to design and set up the project's computerized management and
accounting system, prepare an accounting procedures manual, and train the accountants for the
Project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that for all expenditures for which withdrawals
from the Credit account are made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: (i)
maintain records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain for at least one year all
records evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA's representatives to examine such records;
and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit, and that the report



-27-
of such audit contains a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals (para. 6.1 d). In order to facilitate implementation of the component, an
accounting procedures manual would be established by the above-mentioned consultant. A
condition of effectiveness wilI be that the accounting and financial management system of the
Project has been set up (para. 6.3d).
4.22          Project Accounts (PA).  In addition to the Special Account (para. 3.40), a
condition of effectiveness will be that the Borrower has opened a Project Account in a commercial
bank in Niamey and has made a first deposit of US$400,000 equivalent representing the first
payment on its financial contribution to the Project (para. 6.3e). Assurance was given during
negotiations that (i) after effectiveness, the Government will open five District Accounts in a
commercial bank in the districts of Boboye, Dogondoutchi, Goure, Say and Tessaoua or in the
nearest location; (ii) no replenishments will be made in the District Account of Boboye unless an
agreement satisfactory to IDA has been made between the NRMU and ONVPE for implementing
component (a) of the Project in the District of Boboye, ONVPE has selected and recruited, in a
manner satisfactory to IDA, the staff of the NRM District Team, and the NRM District Committee
(NRMDC) is set up, and (iii) no replenishments will be made in the District Accounts of
Dogondoutchi, Goure, Say and Tessaoua unless the staff of the NRM District Team has been
selected and recruited in a manner satisfactory to IDA and the NRM District Committee
(NRMDC) has been set up in the respective districts (para. 6. le). District Accounts would be
operated under the responsibility of the Project's District Team Leader, assisted by an accountant
recruited by the Project. Initial deposit from the Project Account to the District Accounts will not
exceed US$50,000 equivalent. Replenishment of the District Accounts would be made by the
NRMU from the Special Account and the Project Account, upon reccipt of documented expenses
approved by the DT Manager and the DT Accountant, and cleared by the LCNRM representative.
'Te Special Account, the Project Account and the five District Accounts will be audited annually.
4.23          Disbursement Procedure for Community Investments. Ali disbursements under
the proposed Project for investments at the community level will be made by the District Unit that
is managing the Project District Account. For operations that can be directly executed by the
community, the DT will pay directly for the materials required for such works or, if needed, for the
wages of skilled laborers, while the community will provide unskilled labor as an in-kind
contribution. For heavy or specialized works that are contracted out, funds will be administered by
the DT who will make direct payments to the contractors. However, the selection of contractors,
the supervision of the works, and the decision to pay the contractor will be made in consultation
with the LCNRM (para. 4.2). Some communities may set up cooperatives to execute contracts,
and some NGOs may be interested in executing parts or all of the works prescribed in a CBNRM
plan. Detailed procedures will be incorporated in the Implementation Manual.
4.24          Community Saving Funds. Funding under the Project for community investments
will be provided on a grant basis, even in the case of NRM-related economic infrastructure
investments (para. 3.9).  Credit mechanisms are not available in most parts of rural Niger.
However, some of these investments are expected to generate a quick return. In such cases, the
LCNRM may agree with the community members who benefit from these investments, on periodic
payments corresponding to the replacement costs of the investments, in a time period comparable
to the amortization period. The funds collected by the LCNRM under this formula may be
deposited in a Community Saving Fund and subsequently utilized by the community to finance
future community investments on a similar basis or through loans to individuals or groups. The
list of beneficiaries, the amount they should pay and the schedule of payment would be decided by



-28-
the LCNRM for each type of mvestment based on the expected economic rate of return of the
investment. Training in simple financial management techniques and procedures will be provided to
the managers of these funds, under a service contract with an NGO presently actively involved in
rural savings and credit in Niger or in the region. Project funds will cover short-term technical
assistance and training costs, as well as costs for building and equipping approximately 90 small
savings offices. An agreement, satisfactory to IDA, will be signed between NRMU and the
selected NGO, specifying the type of assistance they will provide to the comrnunities, and the
conditions and procedures for assisting the communities to establish Community Savings Funds.
4.25          Extemal Audits. The Administrative and Financial Officer of the NRMU will
maintain all project-related records and accounts, and would have these audited annually by
independent extemal auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit report would include a separate
opinion on the use of SOEs, the Special Account, the Project Account and the five District
Accounts.  All accounts will be maintained in accordance with sound and internationally
recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to IDA. The accounting unit will
provide interim and annual financial statements to reflect the financial performance and position of
the Project. An auditor's opinion and reports satisfactory to IDA on such statements will be
provided within six months of the close of the fiscal year. The auditor's report will include a
statement on the adequacy or otherwise of the accounting system and internal controls, the
reliability of statements of expenditures as a basis for Credit disbursements, and compliance with
financial covenants. The Borrower has submitted a short list of auditing firms to IDA. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that: (i) the records and accounts (Special Account, Project Account
and Project Sub-Accounts) will be audited for each fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) the
Borrower will fumish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) the
Borrower wil furnish to the Association such other information as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request (para. 6. 1f). A condition of effectiveness will be the appointment of an
auditing firm acceptable to IDA to audit project accounts, based upon a one-year contract to be
extended on a yearly basis (para. 6.3f).
F. Supervision, Annual and Mid-Term Reviews
4.26          Proiect Supervision. Supervision would be carried out in close collaboration with
co-financiers. One joint donor supervision mission would be scheduled each year at the time of the
annual review. Other supervision missions could be carried out during the year, jointly or
separately, but in a concerted manner. Borrowers and program staff from other neighboring
countries may be invited to join the supervision missions in order to take stock of Niger's
experience and share their own with the Nigeriens and the donor agencies. Supervision of the
Project's financial management, accounting and auditing follow-up would be undertaken as a
separate exercise. Supervision missions would involve, in addition to the task managers, experts
having skills and experience in project implementation supervision and in areas such as financial
management, people participation, gender issues, training, and environment. A high level of
supervision input will be required for effective implementation of this "process-oriented" project.
A supervision schedule for the first three years of the Project is in Annex 4. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that each year the Borrower will convene a project implementation
review meeting with IDA, other co-financiers and regional and local authorities to review the key



-29-
project performance indicators and approve the recommendations of the NRM Stecring Committee
(para. 6. lg).
4.27          A Mid-Term Review will be conducted during the third year of the project.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations (para. 6. 1h) that:
(a)   the borrower and IDA shall conduct, not later than March 31, 1999, a mid-term
Project Implementation Review to monitor progress of project implementation;
(b)    no later than six weeks prior to this review, the Borrower shall furnish to IDA for
its review and comments a report, mcluding (i) an evaluation of progress achieved
in project inplementation by the Borrower in general, and by its Central, District
and Local agencies, (ii) an analysis of key problems that have emerged during
implementation, and (iii) a draft action program to be carried out until the
completion of the Project; and
(c)   the Borrower shall carry out promptly the recommendations of the review.
G. Environmental Impact
4.28          The Project has been classified under Category "C" for environmental impact
purposes. The broad objective of the program is to reverse the current trend of land and natural
resources degradation in order to secure sustainable agricultural production and growth and
improve the living conditions of Niger's rural communities. As a result, the project, if successful,
will clearly have a positive impact on the environment. It will improve soil, water and vegetation
conditions as well as promote biodiversity development.  However, any project aiming
simultaneously at enhancing production and protecting the natural resource base can have potential
negative impacts. CBNRM plans will anticipate these impacts and make provision for their
mitigation. Adequate provision has been made under the natural resource assessment and the
monitoring and evaluation components of the Project to evaluate the state of the natural resources,
assess the impact of the Project's intervention, and decide on corrective measures.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY
A. Benefits
5.1           The Project is expected to substantially improve the quality of life of about
200,000 people living in five districts and 70,000 more in the rest of the country. It is estimated
that 80% of the beneficiaries would come from the rural poor. The benefits would include:
(a)   improvement of agriculture, forestry and livestock production in the project area,
and establishment of improved sustainable production practices that would
contribute to better quality of life for the communities concemed;
(b)    empowerment of local communities, improvement of local management
capabilities, enhancement of the role of women, and better security of land tenure;
and



-30-
(c)    establishment of a sustainable land-use system which would balance production
against resource consumption and promote restoration of ecological stability.
5.2           A 1990, World Bank study entitled "Economic Issues in Renewable Natural
Resource Management" examined the empirical evidence on the economic and financial viability of
techniques to improve natural resource management.  The study concluded that: (i) many
techniques are economically viable, although their financial profitability is less obvious; (ii) there
are enough economically viable techniques to provide a menu of options to clients in each agro-
ecological zone; and (iii) further adaptive research is required to refine the techniques and tailor
them more closely to local circumstances. The empirical work from which the above conclusions
were drawn was almost invariably based on a before/after analysis, by comparing the costs and
benefits of the resource management unprovement techniques against the initial situation. But the
initial situation is not static; a with/without analysis to determine incremental net benefits would
have to take into account resource degradation and declining land productivity that may occur in
the "without" case. The measurement problems are so difficult that a true with/without analysis
has seldom been attempted. The above conclusions therefore understate the net benefits of
improved resource management techniques.
5.3           The design of the present project was based on an extensive exanination and
comparison of alternatives to ensure that the proposed approach and technologies used would be
the most likely to succeed at the lowest cost and level of external support. The design of 111
natural resources management initiatives in Niger was analyzed during project preparation (para
2.23). Socio-economic considerations, technologies, institutional issues and management options
were analyzed and compared. A report containing a synthesis of the results of this analysis is in
the Project File.
5.4           The project will have a positive impact on the national balance of payments
because it will increase production of substitutes for agricultural imports.
5.5          No overali rate of return was estimated for the project as a whole because (i) the
scope of the project includes a considerable institution strengthening component for which a stream
of benefits is difficuit to quantify; and (ii) the participatory nature of the project renders it
impossible to determine the precise mix of activities farmers will adopt and the overall rate of
adoption. In order to assess the attractiveness of individual investments and packages of
investmnents from the farmers' point of view, a financial analysis of the packages of the investments
promoted by the project was undertaken in three sample locations in districts with varying
agroecological characteristics. The results indicate that the proposed packages had financial rates
of return between 16% and 35%. Since environnmental benefits were not accounted for, and shadow
pricing of labor would lower the economic cost of the main input, it can be assumed that the
economic rates of return will actually be higher. When other non-quantifiable benefits such as
those related to the building of institutional capacity in the Govemment and private sector are
added, the project can be expected to have a high economic return. An illustration of the results of
the financial analysis of a package of project interventions in one of three locations, Say-Plateau, is
presented in the following Table 5.



-31-
Table S.        ILLUSTRATION OF BENEFITS AND COSTS OF PACKAGE OF PROJECT
INERVENTIONS AT SAMPLE LOCATION (Say-Plateau)
(FCFA x 000)
Activity                Present Value of Financial   Net Present Value   Financial Rate
of Return
Costs      Benefits
Woodland Protection and Regeneration     7,925        5,673          (2,253)           4.9%
(100 ha)
Agriculture Intensification              24,009       32,879          8,870            38%
(120 ha)
Soil and Water Conservation Measures     10,362       5,993          (4,369)            3%
(50 km of stone bunds)
Crop Processing Unit                     18,030       31,616          13,585           72%
(one unit)
Improvement of Traditional Wells          820         1,885           1,065            45%
(one unit)
Equipped Transhumance Corridors           355         2,049           1,694            75%
(1 km xl 50 m)
Village Pharmacy                          524         1,839           1,316            92%
ane unit)
Forage Producing Hedgerows                187          318             130             30%
(1,7 ha)
TOTAL (Package of above investuients at  58,144       78,336         20,038           19.6%
village level)                                                       20_038_19___    __ _
Main Assumutions; Discount rate 10%. Time period: 10 years. Support to individual villages not to exceed US$40,000
equivalent. Project support to be provided based upon agreed packages of measures and management options.
5.6            In addition to the benefits directly accruing to the affected communities, the
Government and the people of Niger will benefit from strengthened institutional capacity to manage
and monitor the natural environment. The availability and quality of data on natural resource use
will be significantly improved as a result of the project, and trend analysis will provide critical
information to policy makers in the context of the preparation and implementation of the National
Plan for Sustainable Development.
5.7            The project minimizes recurrent costs for the Government.  Implementation
support will be provided bv local contractual staff, who will assist local communities in the design
and implementation of management plans. Such assistance will terminate once the targeted
communities have been organized and trained, their management plans designed and approved, and
the main investments coinpleted.  Afterwards, these communities will be able to maintain
investments and will need only limited additional technical support which can be provided by the
national agricultural support services program.
B. Risks
5.8             The principal project risks relate to (i) the willingness and ability of communities
to commit to the project objiectives and engage in participatory planning and long-term investments,
and (ii) the capacity of the Government to implement the program.
5.9         Communities rnay not be fully aware of the seriousness of the threat of environmental
degradation, especially if occasionally favorable climatic conditions (such as repeated good years
of rainfall) give a false sense of security and hinder effective mobilization. This risk is addressed
using periodic awareness-raising and information campaigns, and exchanges of experience among



-32-
villages fàcing varied degrees of land degradation. Communities may also be reluctant to accept the
planning methods, technological packages and the shared financing arrangements proposed by the
project. Often farmers are risk adverse and resistant to change. This risk is addressed by: focusing
on technological packages that are part of or consistent with those adopted by the national
agriculture extension services, working only with interested groups, involving farmers in the
planning and selection of activities, and lirniting local contributions to the provision of labor and
local materials.
5.10       The Goveriment may not diligently implement programs and laws that may be crucial
to success. These include the program on decentralization which will help fully empower local
communities, and the new land tenure law. In both cases, fear of possible social and political
repercussions may delay Government action. While implementation of these programns and laws
may be essential to ens'ure sustainability in the longer tern, it is not likely to have a significant
impact on project implementation. The Government may also face difficulties ensuring cooperation
among the various agencies, and operation of the institutional arrangements required for efficient
implementation. These risks are considerable and cannot be totally mitigated. They will be detected
in a timely manner through a monitoring and evaluation system that will alert project managers to
emerging problems and. changing conditions, and enable them to address difficulties. Annual
reviews will concentrate on these emerging problems and work closely with the Government to
identify corrective action.
5.11       The project: involves a significant level of risk but is worthy of implementation
because it will have high environmental and economic returns, help channel resources where they
are most needed, and leverage additional resources from local communities for rural development
and environmental conservation.
C. Sustainability
5.12          The project promotes  sustainable  agricultural development by  focusing
comprehensively on production, the impact of production on the natural resource base, and the
natural resource base's capacity to sustain production in the long-term. The most critical factors
for project sustainability are found at the community and national Government levels.
5.13          Community ownership will be the first guarantee of sustainability. CBNRM plans
will be prepared with external technical and financial assistance, but decisions on the content of
these plans will rest ultimately with communities, which will be responsible for co-financing and
managing implementation. Long-tern sustainability at the community level will becorne possible as
improved land use, production systems and technologies are promoted in communities possessing
the necessary know-how, and legal, technical and financial tools to properly design and implement
plans. Despite the promising results already achieved in implementing community-based natural
resources management plans in Niger, Mali and Burkina Faso, there exists the risk that some
communities will not fully commit to the project's objectives and make long-termn investments
because the effects of environniental degradation are not always well-comprehended and perceived.
5.14          On the national level, sustainability will depend upon the Government's continued
promotion of the approaches and activities of the project after project ternination. This is likely to
happen because the project supports a national programn, the NNRM, that is one of the
cornerstones of Niger's rural development strategy. In fact, this project represents the first time
slice of a long-term programn for which the Government of Niger is seeking long-term partnerships



-33-
with donor agencies. The Government envisages that the program will continue for at least twenty
years in order to reach most of Niger's rural communities. A change in Government policies and
programns is possible, but this does not appear likely at this tine.
5.15          The project has minimum recurrent-cost implications. The amount of counterpart
funds required from the C;overnment is very limited, with a substantial proportion (36%) to be
provided before effectiveness. Support for field inplementation will be provided by local
contractual staff, who will assist local communities to design and implement management plans.
Assistance will terminate once targeted communities have been organized and trained, their
management plans designed and approved, and the main investments completed. Communities will
maintain investments using mostly their own labor and local materials and will need only linited
additional technical support from the national technical support services available at the local level.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1           Assurances that were obtained during negotiations:
(a)    procurement of goods, works and consultant services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit will take place in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.34);
(b)    NNRMP staff will not be moved or replaced before the completion of a three-year
assignment period without prior approval from IDA (para. 4.5);
(c)   the Borromver shahl establish and maintain for the duration of the Project, the NRM
Steering Committee (NRMSC) with a composition and functions acceptable to the
Association (para. 4.7);
(d)    for al] expenditures for which withdrawals from the Credit account are to be made
on the basis of SOEs, the Borrower shall (i) maintain records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures, (ii) retain for at least one year all records evidencing
such expenditures, (iii) enable IDA's representatives to examine such records and
(iv) ensure that records and accounts are included in the annual audit (para. 4.21);
(e)   the Government will make no replenishments in (i) the District Account of Boboye
unless an agreement satisfactory to IDA has been made between the NRMU and
ONVPE for implementing component (a) of the Project in the District of Boboye,
ONVPE has selected and recruited, in a manner satisfactory to IDA, the staff of
the NRM District Team, and the NRM District Committee (NRMDC) is set up;
and (ii) in the District Accounts of Dogondoutchi, Goure, Say and Tessaoua
unless the staff of the NRM District Team has been selected and recruited in a
manner satisfactory to IDA and the NRM District Committee (NRMDC) has been
set up in the respective districts (para. 4.22);
(f)   the records and accounts (Special Account, Project Account and Project Sub-
Accounts) will be audited for each fiscal year in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles, consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association. The Borrower will furnish to the Association as soon as available,



-34-
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested and the Borrower
will furnish to the Association such other information concerning such records,
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request (para. 4.25);
(g)    each year, not later than December 31, the Borrower will convene a project
implementation review meeting with IDA, other co-financiers and regional and
local authorities, to review and approve the recommendations of the NRMU
regarding project implementation (para. 4.26); and
(h)   the Borrower and the Association shall conduct, not later than March 31, 1999, a
mid-term project implementation review to monitor progress of project
implemeritation. Not later than six weeks prior to such review, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and commnents a report in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of progress
achieved in project implementation by the Borrower in general, and by its central,
district anid local agencies, and a draft action programn for the completion of the
Project. Promptly after completing the mid-term review, the recommendations of
the said review shall be carried out as agreed between the Borrower and the
Association (para. 4.27).
6.2           A condition of Board Presentation is that:
(a)   the NRMSC is effectively established with composition and terns of reference
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.7).
6.3           Conditions of effectiveness will be that:
(a)    UTA has been staffed in a manner satisfactory to IDA, and has prepared a work
program satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.16);
(b)   the Borrower has adopted an Implementation Manual, satisfactory to IDA (para.
4.1) containing, inter alia, finalized standard bidding documents for critical
procurement of goods, services and works for ICB, LIB and NCB (para. 3.3.3)
and a project monitoring and evaluation system (para. 4.20). This initial deposit
will be sulbsequently replenished by an amnount equivalent to US$175,000 or any
other amount required for the imnplementation of the Project;
(c)    at least six technical experts, the procurement expert and the financial expert have
been recruited with terns of reference and qualifications satisfactory to IDA (para.
4.5);
(d)    an accounting and financial management system, satisfactory to IDA, has been set
up for the Project (para. 4.21);
(e)   the Borrower has opened a Project Account in a commercial bank in Niamey and
has made a first deposit of US$400,000 equivalent in the Project Account,



-35-
representing the first payment on its financial contribution to the Project. The
Borrower has also opened five District Sub-Accounts in a commercial bank in the
districts of Boboye, Dogondoutchi, Goure, Say and Tessaoua or in the nearest
location (para. 4.22);
(f)    the Bornower has appointed an auditing firm acceptable to the Association to audit
the project accounts, based upon a one year contract to be extended on a yearly
basis, (para. 4.25); and
(g)    all the conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of the Danish and the
Norwegiian grants have been met by the Borrower (para. 3.26).
6.4           Recommendation. Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project is
suitable for a credit of U'S$26.7 million equivalent to the Government of Niger on standard terms,
with 40 years maturity.



Niger
NATIONAL NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Components Project Cost Summary
(FCFA '000)                                      (US$ 000)
%    % Total                                  %    % Total
Foreign   Base                                Foreign   Base
Local       Foreign       Total    Exchang  Costs   Local   Foreign    Total  Exchang  Costs
A. IMPLEMENTATION OF NRM PLANS
Boboye District                                       2.250,472.0   1,165,720.0  3,416,192.0   34    14.6     3,847.0   1,992.7   5,839.6   34      14.6
Other Four Districts \a                               7,399,531.0  3,222,917.0  10,622,448.0   30    45.3    12,648.8   5,509.3  18,158.0   30      45.3
Assistance to Ongoing Projects                        1,117,200.0    478,800.0   1,596,000.0   30     68      1,909.7    818.5   2,728.2   30       6.8
Subtotal IMPLEMENTATION OF NRM PLANS                   10.767.203.0  4.867,437 0  15,634,640.0   31    66.7    18,405.   8,320.4  26,725.9   31      66.7
B.PROJECT SUPPORT OPERATIONS
Research, Studies, Tech.Assist., Mapping, Cartography  444,120 0   1,543,980 0   1,988,100.0   78     8.5       759.2   2,639.3   3,398.5   78      8.5
Human Resources Development                            862,945 5    287,769 5   1,150,715.0   25      4.9     1,475.1    491.9   1,967.0   25       4.9
NNRA and NRIN                                          447,777.0    791,663.0   1,239,440.0   64      53        7654    1,353.3   2,118.7   64      5.3
Subtotal PROJECT SUPPORT OPERATIONS                     1;754,842 5   2,623,412.5  4,378,2550   60     18.7     2,999.7   4,484.5   7.484.2   60      18.7
C. SUPPORT TO NATIONAL POLICIES AND STRATEGY
Land Tenure Commissions                                 80,170.0     25.730.0    105,900.0   24       0.5       137.0      44.0    181.0   24       0.5
Suppor to RDSC                                          22,340 0      8.510.0     30,850.0   28       0.1        38.2      14.5      52.7   28      0.1
Subtotal SUPPORT TO NATIONAL POLICIES AND STRATE         102,510 0     34,240 0    136,750.0   25       0.6       175 2      58.5    233.8   25       0 6
D. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Regular Monitoring                                     282,203 5    465,291.5    747,495.0   62       3 1       482 4     795.4   1,277 8   62      3.1
Scientific Monitoring                                   81,450 0    244,740.0    326,190.0   75       14        139.2    418.4    557 6   75         1.4
Subtotal MONITORING AND EVALUATION                       363,653 5    710,031.5   1,073.685.0   66      4 5       621.6   1,213.7   1.835.4   66      4.5
E PROJECT MANAGEMENT \b                                  798,813 0    556,277.0   1,355,090.0  41       5.8     1,365.5    950.9   2,316.4   41       5.8
F REFUNDING OF PPF                                              -    877,500.0    877,500.0  100        3.7           -   1,500.0   1,500.0  100      3.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   13,787,022.0  9,668,898.0  23,455,920.0   41     100    23,567.6  16,528.0  40,095.6   41      100.0
Physical Contingencies                                 203,759.8    304.566.2    508,326.0   60       2         348.3    520.6    868.9   60         2
Price Contingencies                                   1,161.186.5  1,125,190.4  2,286,376.9   49      10        721.5    997.9   1,719.4   58        4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    15,151,968.3  11,098,654.5  26,250,622.8   42    112    24,637.3  18,046.6  42,683.9   42       106
\a Districts of Say, Dogondoulchi, Tessaoua and Gouré
\b Including costs and salaries for the NRMU
X
o.



Niger
NATIONAL NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
1996      1997       1998       1999      2000       Total        1996       1997   1998      1999    2000   Total
A. IMPLEMENTATION OF NRM PLANS
Boboye Distrct                                       659,638 2  737,888 5  865,136 8  743.309 5  766,910.1  3,772,883 0   1,072 6   1,199 8  1,406 7  1,208 6   1,247 0   6,134 8
OtherFourDistricts\a                                1,033,951 9 1,858,8356 2,756,7270 3,033,3994 3,177,098.9 11,860,0127   1,681.2  3,0225   4,4825   4,9324   5,1660   19,2846
Assistance to Ongoing Projects                       172,409 3  265,787 2  456,3914  470,7861   485.637 3  1,851 011 3    280 3    432 2    7421    765 5    789 7   3,009 8
Subtotal IMPLEMENTATION OF NRM PLANS                  1,865,9994 2,862,5112 4,078,2551 4,247,495.0 4,429,6463 17,483,9070   3,034 1  4,6545   6,631.3  6,9065   7,2027   28,4291
B.PROJECT SUPPORT OPERATIONS
Research, Studies, Tech Assist, Mapping, Cartography  863,095 8  547,172.8  419,624 8  224,107 7  216,732 8  2,270,733 9  1,403 4    889 7    682,3   364 4    352 4   3 692 3
Human Resources Development                          467,642 6  346,342.6  234,787 0  102,324 1   78.450 2  1.229.546 5    760 4    563 2    381.8    166 4    127 6    1,999 3
NNRA and NRIN                                        481,864 4  362,692 6  280,617 9  156,354 7  139,310 0  1,420,839 6    783 5    589 7    456,3   254 2    226 5   2,310 3
Subtotal PROJECT SUPPORT OPERATIONS                   1,812,602 8 1,256,207 9  935,029 7  482,786 6  434,493 0  4,921,1199   2,947 3  2,0426   1.520.4    785 0    706 5   8 001 8
C. SUPPORT TO NATIONAL POLICIES AND STRATEGY
Land Tenure Commissions                               29,402 4   21,094 5   21,729 8   22,395 3   23,081.2   117,703 2     47 8      34 3     35,3    36 4      37 5     191 4
Suppor to RDSC                                         10,917.3    5,8904     6,068.1    6,2558     6,4492     35,5808      17.8      96       9,9    102       105       579
Subtotal SUPPORTTO NATIONAL POLICIES AND STRATEG   40,319.6   26,985 0   27,797 9   28,651 0   29,530 4   153,284 0           65 6     43 9     45 2     46 6     48 0     249 2
D. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
RegularMonitoring                                    309,235 1  156,0143    90,652 1  199,8628   96,5872    852,351 5    5028    253.7    1474    3250    157 1   1.3859
Scientific Monitoring                                  10,939 5  148,623.0   21,744 4    6,926.4  198,735 4   386,968 7     17.8   241.7      35.4     il 3    323 1     629 2
Subtotal MONITORING AND EVALUATION                     320,174 6  304,637.3  112,396 5  206,789 2  295,322 6  1,239,320.2    520 6    495 3    182 8    336 2    480 2   2,015 2
E. PROJECT MANAGEMENT'\b                               541,2661   204,5531   243,1109  317,1155  224,4462  1,530,491 7    8801    3326    395.3    5156    3650    2,4886
F. REFUNDING OF PPF                                    922,500.0          -          -          -          -   922,500 0  1,500.0         -        -        -        -   1,500 0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   5,502,8626 4,654,894 5 5,396,590.0 5,282,837 2 5,413,438 5 26,250,6228   8,9477   7,5689   8,774.9  8,5900   8,8023  42,6839
\a Districts of Say, Dogondouichi, Tessaoua and Gouré
\b tncluding costs and salares for the NRMU.
MIJ
rOX
O t
ss



Niger
NATIONAL NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
(FCFA '000)                                    (US$ '000)
%    % Total                                  %     %Total
Foreign  Base                                 Foreign  Base
Local      Foreign      Total   Exchang Costs   Local    Foreign       Total   Exchang Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Material and Equipment                    4,233,600.0  2,822,400.0  7,056,000.0  40    30      7,236.9   4,824.6   12,061.5  40      30
B. Training                                    401,608.5    175,546.5   577,155.0  30     2         686.5     300.1      986.6  30      2
C. Studies                                     353,130.5  1,293,174.5  1,646,305.0  79    7         603.6    2,210.6    2,814.2  79     7
D. Equipmentand Furniture                      112,664.0   377,436.0   490,100.0  77      2         192.6     645.2      837.8  77      2
E. Vehicles                                    112,956.0  1,016,604.0  1,129,560.0  90    5         193.1    1,737.8    1,930.9  90     5
F. Offices                                     172,200.0    168,000.0   340,200.0  49     1         294.4     287.2      581.5  49       1
G. Labour                                    3,528,000.0          -  3,528,000.0    -     15      6,030.8         -    6,030.8    -     15
H. Data Base /a                               224,095.0   877,005.0  1,101,100.0  80      5         383.1    1,499.2    1,882.2  80     5
I. Assistance Funds                          1,117,200.0   478,800.0  1,596,000.0  30     7       1,909.7     818.5    2,728.2  30      7
J. Management                                  29,600.0      7,200.0    36,800.0  20      -          50.6      12.3       62.9   20      -
K. Refunding of PPF (Project Preparation Fund)       -    877,500.0   877,500.0  100      4            -    1,500.0    1,500.0  100     4
Total Investment Costs                        10,285,054.0  8,093,666.0  18,378,720.0  44   78     17,581.3   13,835.3   31,416.6  44     78
Il. Recurrent Costs
A.Travel                                       596,882.0          -    596,882.0    -     3       1,020.3         -    1,020.3    -      3
B. Salaries for Civil Servants                230,020.0           -    230,020.0    -     1         393.2         -      393.2    -      1
C. Salaries for Contractuals                 2,156,848.0    170,400.0  2,327,248.0   7    10      3,686.9     291.3    3,978.2   7      10
D. Maintenance                                 21,980.0    83,120.0    105,100.0  79      -          37.6     142.1      179.7  79       -
E.Vehicles'OperatingCosts                      278,058.0  1,112,232.0  1,390,290.0  80    6         475.3    1,901.3    2,376.6  80      6
F. Office Maintenance                           7,800.0      3,250.0    11,050.0  29      -          13.3       5.6       18.9  29       -
G.Miscellaneous/b                              210,380.0   206,230.0   416,610.0  50      2         359.6     352.5      712.2  50       2
Total Recurrent Costs                          3,501,968.0  1,575,232.0  5,077,200.0  31    22      5,986.3   2,692.7    8,679.0  31      22
Total BASELINE COSTS                           13,787,022.0  9,668,898.0  23,455,920.0  41  100    23,567.6   16,528.0   40,095.6  41    100
Physical Contingencies                         203,759.8    304,566.2    508,326.0  60    2         348.3     520.6      868.9  60       2
Price Contingencies                          1,161,186.5  1,125,190.4  2,286,376.9  49    10        721.5     997.9    1,719.4  58       4
TotalPROJECTCOSTS                              15,151,968.3  11,098,654.5  26,250,622.8  42  112    24,637.3   18,046.6   42,683.9  42    106
\a Data base includes aerial and satelite imagery, reference documents, etc.
\b Miscellaneous includes office supplies, consumable goods and stationery.
oetz
J-4



Niger
NATIONAL NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
1996     1997      1998      1999      2000         Tolal      1996    1997    1998    1999    2000        Total
I. lnvestmnent Costs
A. Materal and Equipment                  636,588.9 1,255,544 7 1,967,305.4 1,951,347.6 2,013,891.8  7,824,678.4  1,035.1  2,041.5  3,198 9  3,172.9  3,274.6   12,723 1
B. Training                               293,200.6  198,392.5  46,466.8  33,863.9  36,910.5    608,834.3   476.7   322.6    75.6    55.1    60.0      990.0
C Studies                                 529,152.8  551,886.1  380,185.7  212,263.5  219,449.1   1,892,937.2   860.4   897.4   618.2   345.1   356 8    3,077.9
D Equipment and Furnilure                 400,008.2  107,745 5   28,568.9  26,386.1   4,554.5    567,263.2   650.4   175.2    46.5    42.9     7.4     922.4
E. Vehicles                               495,502 4  164,732 0   78,204.9  388,081.3  188,308.8   1,314,829.4   805.7   267.9   127.2   631.0   306.2    2,137.9
F. Offices                                301,139.4  28,123.7  28.980.3  22.442.7  12,874.0    393,560.2   489.7    45.7    47.1    36 5    20 9       639 9
G Labour                                  312,620.0  618,383 7  968,593.7  958,832.4  987,597.4  3,846,027.2   508.3  1,005.5  1,574.9  1,559.1  1,605 8    6,253 7
H Data Base /a                            461,327.6  312,696.2  221,053.7  58,237.3  210,469.7  1,263,784 6   750.1   508.4   359.4    94 7   342.2    2,054.9
I. Assistance Funds                       172,409.3  265,787.2  456,391.4  470,786.1  485,637.3   1,851,011.3   280.3   432.2   742.1   765.5   789.7    3,0098
J Management                               21,315.0        -   19,311.4         -         -      40,626.4    34.7       -    31.4       -        -       66 1
K Refunding of PPF (Project Preparation Fund)    922,500 0  -         -    -              -    922,500.0  1,500.0       -       -       -        -    1,500.0
Total Investrnent Costs                   4,545,764.2 3,503,291.5 4,195,062.3 4,122,241.0 4,159,693.2  20,526,052.3  7,391.5  5,696.4  6,821.2  6,702.8  6,763.7   33,375.7
Il. Recurrent Costs
A Travel                                   68.7496  152,756.1  171,642.8  169,4353  149,147.0    711,730.8   111.8   248.4   279.1   275.5   242.5    1.157.3
B. Salaries for Civil Servants             21,067.3  34,244.8  48,452.3  68,805.2  79,368.8    251,938.4    34.3    55.7    78.8   111.9   129.1        409.7
C. Salaries for Contractuals              505,727.8  534,920.3  547,550.7  438,684.8  480,704.0  2,507,587.7   822.3   869.8   890.3   713.3   781 6    4,077.4
D. Maintenance                              1,603.2  22,850.6  34,744.4  28,692.8  37,147.2    125,038.2      2.6    37.2    56.5    46.7    60.4       203.3
E.Vehicles' Operating Costs               232,111.2  284,440.0  321,976.1  375,341.9  425,187.5   1,639,056.7   377.4   462.5   523.5   610.3   691.4    2,665.1
F Office Maintenance                        2,386.7   2,453.0   2,527.3   2,606.9   2,689.1      12,663.2     3.9     4.0     4.1      4 2     4.4       20.6         1
G. Miscellaneous/b                        125.452.5  119,938.1   74,634.2  77.029.2  79,501.6    476,555.6   204.0   195.0   121.4   125.3   129.3      774.9         w
Total RecurentCosts                         957,098.3 1,151,603.0 1,201,527.8 1,160,596.2 1,253,745.3  5,724,570.5  1,556.3  1,872.5  1,953.7  1,887 1  2.038.6    9,308.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                        5,502,862.6 4,654,894.5 5,396,590.0 5,282,837.2 5,413,438.5  26,250,622.8  8,947.7  7,568.9  8,774.9  8,590.0  8,802 3   42,683.9
\a Data base indludes aenal and satelite imagery, reference documents, e
\bMisoellaneous incdudes office supplies, consumable goods and stationery.
>4
h4
O 



-40-
ANNEX 2
NIGER
NATlURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Scliedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year/ Semester          Semester       Cumulative        Cumulative
.______________ Disbursement_%
FY 96
Dec. 1995                                  0.0              0.0                 0
Jun. 1996                                  1.7              1.7               6.3
FY 97
Dec. 1996                                  1.5              3.2              12.0
Jun. 1997                                  2.0              5.2               19.5
FY 98
Dec. 1997                                  2.0              7.2              26.9
Jun. 1998                                  2.5              9.7               36.3
FY 99
Dec. 1998                                  2.0             11.7              43.8
Jun. 1999                                  3.0             14.7              55.0
FY 2000
Dec. 1999                                  2.5             17.2              64.4
Jun. 2000                                  3.0             20.2              75.6
FY 2001
Dec. 2000                                  2.5             22.7              85.0
Jun. 2001                                  2.5             25.2              94.4
FY 2002
Dec. 2001                                  1.5             26.7              100.0
Jun. 2002                                  0.0             26.7              100.0



NIGER
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ACTIVITY                              YEAR- I       YEAR-2    YEAR-3            YEAR-4    YEAR-5
Field Staff Recruitment             ____=
Human Resource Development
.Field Staff                        _                  -=     =       =       =     =
.Tech. & Admin. Agents            =  =  =         =   =          =    =        =   =         =
. Community members                            =  ====== ==                           =====
Design & Implementation
of CBNRM Plans
. Birni Ngaouré
. Other Districts                                    -===              =      = ===
National Natural Resource Assessment
& Information Network
Research & Studies                        ======_=-==-= -_=_=_-__  =--===___
NRM Policy Support                     =====
Coordination with Other projects    ==      =    ==_ __=                            = 
Monitoring & Evaluation                                     _=       ==



-42-
ANNEX 4
NIGER
NATRIRAL RESOURCE MANAGEMIENT PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
1.                 Bank Supervision Input.  The staff input indicated in the Table below  is an addition to
regular supervision needs in Washington for the review of progress reports, audits, procurement
actions, correspondence, etc. (estimated to require 15 staff weeks per year).
2.                  Progress Reports should cover all paramneters of the execution and are to be submitted
at the end of June and December of each year; hy the Programn Director ef the Program  Coordinating
Unit based upon the input provided by Programn's District Coordinators and Mobile Multidisciplinary
Teams.
3.                  Schedule of Supervision Mission
Approx.                         Activity                                             EIxpected Siills                             Staff
Dates                                                                                                                            Weeks
11/95       Project Launch Workshop                            'l'M, 1acilit.iiojU, I:inancial Analyst. Training Specialist,            10
Nlliturîine[ Evalusition
06/96       Supervision                                         I'M, lPopular l'aliicipaiion Specialist/ Gender Issues, Monitoring       6
and lvaluation
12/96       Annual Review                                      TM, I'opular Participalion/Gender Issues, Financial Analyst,             10
I conoinisi Monitoring Evaluation, Jurist, NRMIS.
06/97       Supervision                                        TM, 'Training Speciailist, Agro-Pastoralist,NRMIS                         6
12/97       Mid-Terin Review                                   'I'N1, Financial Analyst, Training, Monitoring Evaluation, Agro-         15
pastoralist, Jurist, NRMIS.
06/98       Supervision                                        'lM. Aero-lPastoialist,                                                   6
12/98       Annuai Review                                     'IM, J'opul.ar laiiicipation/Gender Issues, Financial Analyst,           10
Economist Monitoring Evaluation, Jurist, NRMIS.
06/99       Supervision                                         T'M, Monitorine Evaluation                                               6
12/99       Annual Review                                      '[`M  Plopular l'articipation/Gender Issues, Financial Analyst,          10
Iiconoi1isi ?Monitoring Evaluation, Jurist, NRMIS
06/00        Supervision                                        IM  Monitorin2 Evaluation                                                6
12/00       Annual Review                                       ['M, 'opular 'ailicipation/Gender Issues, Financial Analyst,
I conomiisi Monitoring Evaluation. Jurist, NRMIS.                       10
03/01       Final Review                                       TM, I'opular Participation/Gender Issues, Financial Analyst,
_ _ __In coniist Monitoring Evaluation, Jurist. NRMIS                         10
06/01        ICR                                               'I'M, I'opular l'articipation/Gender Issues, Financial Analyst,
_I`conoimist. Monitoring Evaluation, Jurist, NRMIS



-43-
Annex 5
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
The Monitoring and Evaluation System
A. Introduction
1.    This annex sumrnarizes the different components of the Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) system proposed for the Niger's Natural Resource Management Program
(NNRNL). It is a short version of a more comprehensive document that will constitute
the M&E working paper for the program. It is understood that the present summary and
the working paper do not constitute blue prints and provide room for regular improvement
during implementation.
B. Description of the M&E system
M&E as a management tool for decision makers
2.    The proposed M&E system consists in a continuous process of data collection,
analysis and interpretation to support the decision making. By providing a comprehensive
framework for gathering and disseminating useful information on performance, difficulties,
results and impacts, the M&E system intends to be an integral part of the project
management procedure from the terroir to the national level. Such a system recognizes
the inherent need for flexibility necessary in any participatory approach, and particularly
for the NRM program., and therefore, emphasizes a more careful attention to project
results, in terms of effectiveness and efficiency, and to establishing strong links between
conception, design, implementation and impact. Information on these resuits and on the
links is important for all those involved in NRM, especially for the decision makers at
community level and for the other NRM key players at the decentralized level.
M&E Users
3.    Different types of information are needed for different types of decision makers.
The M&E system is a tool tailored essentially for decision makers whose tasks were
carefully analyzed to determine their specific needs for information. In the NNRMP, there
will be three levels of decision makers: local, district and national.
4.    At the local level, key players and/or decision makers are the community members
(farmers, herders, women, etc.), the Local Council for NRM set up in each community,
and the Local Initiative Groups. As the primary actors of an NRM program, they need to
have regular feedback on what they have achieved, in comparison with what they had
planned or expected. l'hey want to compare inputs to outputs, measure the results and



-44-
Annex 5
Page 2 of 10
compare them with what they obtained before, under different techniques, methods and
approaches. They also want to understand what in the process has affected those results
positively or adversely so they can make the necessary corrections or do better the next
time. Detailed technical, organizational and economic results are needed on every action
implemented in their terroir such as: number and types of activities involved, quantity and
type of inputs (including labor) used, hectares reclaimed from degraded land, increase in
crop or pasture yields, costs incurred by them and assistance (technical and financial)
received, incomes generated, savings made and credits obtained, and conflicts faced over
land and natural resource issues and solutions adopted. They will compare these data
with those from their initial situation and with similar experiences in other terroirs to help
them better measure the overall benefits of NRM operations.
5.    In order to better carry-out their mandate, Extension Agents and Liaison Agents
will need feedback, on the way their technical knowledge and communication skills have
been efficiently utilized, specifically whether (a) their messages were well understood by
the communities and (b) the advice they gave was sound and produced tangible results.
6.    At the district level, key decision makers are the members of the District
Technical Committee i(COTEAR), made of administrative authorities and local technical
services; the District C'ouncil (CONSAR), formed by community representatives, and the
NRM District Teams responsible for assisting the communities in the implementation of
their NRM plans. Their main task is to support the communities by providing a favorable
environment: technical and administrative advice and support, links with different funding
sources and other projects, coordination of resources needed for the implementation of
communities' NRM Plans, negotiation of the NRM plans, and settlement of land and
natural resource conflicts.  They need information on technical, financial and socio-
economic aspects, such as number of terroirs participating in the program, schedule and
level of technical services to be provided, level of government investment, procurements
and civil works carried out in the district, nature of conflicts, as well as level of execution
and compliance with the terms of the management plan, and aggregated results of the
activities at the district and terroir level. From a more strategic point of view, they need
to have information on the changes occurring at the community level, in terms of
emerging organizations, managerial skills, financial capacities, socio-economic forces, as
well as the level of technology accepted, changes in the production system and new socio-
economic opportunities for the development of the district, and improvement of the living
conditions in the intervention areas.
7.    At the national level, key players and decision makers are government and non-
government agencies, clonors, and political representatives. They require information on
the general performance of the program, including the effectiveness of the terroir
management approach, the time required for building up confidence with the communities,
results and levels of difficulties for preparing and carrying out the diagnosis and the
implementation exercise. Also required is information regarding community managerial
skills, attitude of the authorities, conflict management and gaps or inadequacy in
legislation or regulations, the proper use of inputs, the costs involved, the community



-45-
Annex 5
Page 3 of 10
contribution, the levels and quality of execution, the compliance with the terms of the
agreement between communities and the district councils, as well as the adequacy of the
political and legal framework in facilitating the NNRMP implementation, and the changes
and impact occurring at all levels due to program actions. This information will help
decision makers at the national level to adjust, harmonize, capitalize and coordinate the
approaches of the Program and to plan future investments in NRM, as well as to enhance
and secure the general environment of legislation and regulations in which the NRM
program takes place.
Types of Monitoring and Evaluation
8.    There are essentially two types of monitoring: (i) the monitoring and evaluation of
implementation and (ii) the monitoring and evaluation of impact.
9.    The Monitoring and Evaluation of Implementation will assess the progress
made both in quantitative and qualitative terms.  It will compare the effective
implementation with thie pre-established program  of work and budget.  Differences
between what was planned and what was achieved are highlighted and thorough analysis is
made to understand the causes, find remedies and take action to make the necessary
adjustments whenever required. Several standard systems of implementation monitoring
already exist and are in use in most current projects. These can be tailored to correspond
to specific activities, such as terroir management plans or other program components at
any level. They will be adapted to the NNRMP and presented in detail in the Monitoring
and Evaluation Volume of the Implementation Manual.
10.   The Monitoring and Evaluation of Impact will assess the resuits obtained and
the changes induced by the program's actions and compare the situation before and after
the project. The monitoring of impact will be implemented in every terroir through a
participative diagnosis exercise starting at the design stage of the Terroir Management
Plan, carried out during the entire duration of its implementation process, and continuing
beyond, for as long as effects and impacts of the actions carried out are still felt or
expected. This type of monitoring is very important for decision makers because it will
help them find out whether the program is successful and decide whether to continue in
the same way and expand the program, modify the current NRM approach, or try
something else.
Monitoring Indicators
Il.   There will be two sets of indicators: (i) the implementation indicators and (ii) the
impact indicators.
12.   The Implementation Indicators will measure the level of execution in physical,
financial and calendar terms.  They will compare activities planned and realized in
quantitative and financial terms, use of inputs, time scheduled, and difficulties
encountered. Annual work plans designed at the terroir and district levels will specify the



-46-
Annex 5
Page 4 of 10
number of terroirs involved, the extent and level of awareness and confidence, and
research activities needed in order to prepare and carry out the diagnosis, as well as the
types and volume of NRM activities implemented through the terroir management plans,
the community's contribution and state investment and the schedule of implementation.
On a quarterly basis, monitoring of what is actually achieved, difficulties encountered and
alternative solutions will be carried out by the Liaison Agent together with the Community
and the M&E district agent. An annual work plan at the national level will aggregate the
work plans of the terroir level and specify the quantitative, financial and scheduling
aspects of support operations such as Human Resource Development and Public
Awareness, Studies/ Research and Technical Assistance, NRM Policies, Cooperation with
partners, National Natural Resource Assessment and Information Network. Monitoring
of the implementation process of these support operations will also be done by the M&E
team on a quarterly basis, to help improve the coordination and managerial skills of the
NRM program team.
13.   The Impact Indicators. The NRM approach is expected to generate four main
groups of impacts, each of them contributing to the global success of an NRM program:
(i) rehabilitation of the natural resources' endowment sustaining the production base; (ii)
improvement of living conditions of rural communities; (iii) capacity building at the
community level; and (iv) capacity building for NRM policies, strategies and coordination
at the national level. A first set of indicators related to the specific problems encountered
in Niger and expected results from the program actions has been identified. It constitutes
a general framework for impact analysis. This first set of indicators would be refined
during implementation, to take into account unpredictable positive or negative effects of
actions, possible difficulties in the collection of data, or indicators inappropriate to the
community's understanding of its NRM problem. The general impact analysis framework
is presented in a diagram at the end of this Annex.
(a)   Rehabilitation of the natural resources endowment sustaining the
production base: This is the "starting point" to the NRM Program. The
objective of the impact analysis is to monitor the current state, evolution
and utilization of three main natural resources (soil, water, vegetation).
Expected results would ultimately be the improvement in soil, water and
vegetation quality and availability for different types of needs. Indicators
include soil fertility and use, water availability and management, and
vegetation cover both in quantity and quality. Any NRM action pursuing
the specific objective of natural resource management will always need to
take also into account a socio-cultural indicator, the rate of technology
transfer, to ensure the sustainability of the rehabilitation process.
(b)   The improvement of living conditions of rural communities by secured
production and growth is a sine qua non condition for a viable NRM
program: without positive results on living conditions, the population
would not be interested in adopting and investing effort in the new NRM
approach.  Impact monitoring of the living conditions will look at



-47-
Annex 5
Page 5 of 10
indicators, which include intensification of production, increased incomes
and purchasing power, reduced work load, as well as migratory flows
which is perceived as an indicator related to the satisfaction of basic human
needs.
(c)   Capacily building related to NRM  at the community level. Lessons
learned from past experience all insist on human resource development as
an essential factor to the success of an NRM project at the local level.
Insufficient, nonoperational or irrelevant rural organizations, as well as a
low level of managerial, technical and financial capabilities, frequently lead
to low and irregular levels of participation, restricted to the duration and
initiative of the project.  Indicators related to the development of
manageiial capacity at the community level have been identified which
include: organizational structures, existing and applied regulation and
methodological framework (for savings and credit, land use conflict
management, and operation of the organizations); technical capabilities in
different sectors of NRM, and the networking relationship of the
commuruity with its administrative and economic external environment.
(d)   Capacity  building   related  to NRM    policies, strategies and
coordination  of activities at the national level.   The national,
multisectoral and decentralized approach of a NRM program demands an
entirely new context for the management of such a program: relations
between institutions are to be more frequent and operational, new and
adequate organizational know-how needs to be implemented, flows of
information need to be sufficient and useful, approaches need to be
harmonized. Indicators include: existence of adapted legislation, translated
into applicable regulations disseminated and applied at the community
level; degree of success of the coordination process, operational and useful
network of information related to NRM.
C. Implementation of M&E
14.         The global structure of the M&E system consists of three components: (i)
data and information collection, (ii) results analysis and interpretation, and (iii) production
and distribution of findings and recommendations.
Data and Information Collection
15.   The data collection is based on two sources of inforrnation: (1) data coming from
the NRM Program Activities and (2) data issued by other sources.



-48-
Annex 5
Page 6 of 10
Data originated by NRM Program activities
16.   For these data, there will be three types of collection:
(a)    baseline socio-ecological study ("audit socio-écologique"), carried out on
a scientific basis, in the first and fifth year of the Program, in a sample of
terroirs. INRAN, the National Agricultural Research Institute of Niger,
will be responsible for this activity. It will work closely with specialized
national institutions such as the Statistics Department and the Land Tenure
Commissions for specific parts of the study such as the Household Income
and Consumption Survey, Land Tenure Survey, and Time Survey.
(b)    terroir diagnosis, carried at the beginning of the NRM  exercise in a
terroir, will reproduce the terms of the baseline study, but on an empirical
and participative basis, in every terroir. The responsibility of the diagnosis
is given to the NRM District Team, who will work closely with the
communilies and the technical services.
(c)    regular, systematic and participative data collection related to the
project implementation process and project impact monitoring. It is carried
out by the extension service liaison agents and the community, assisted by
the M&E specialist of the NRM  District Team.  Such a small and
decentralized structure has been proposed to help develop a local
evaluation capacity.
Data Issued bv Other Sources
17.   Main support items for data collection will be: field note book, wall sheet at the
level of the community, and basic data sheets for the liaison agent. Survey forms will be
used for the baseline study.
18.   Quality control ofthe data collected will be ensured through different mechanisms
such as: double verification with different groups in the community (users and non-users
of an investment, women's perceptions, etc.) as well as meeting between liaison and
technical agents, throughi a M&E network.
Analysis and Interpretation of Results
19.   The analysis and interpretation of results is based on (1) a computerized
information system, (2) programmed analysis with predertimined outputs, and (3) the
interpretation of the results.



-49-
Annex 5
Page 7 of 10
20.   The computerized information system will be a user friendly work facilitator,
available at the regional level and capable of comparing and linking qualitative and
quantitative information, according to different types of analysis, to answer basic needs for
information to support project implementation and project impact monitoring.
21.   Certain types of analysis have been identified on the basis of the information
requirements of the decision makers and key players.
Computerized Analysis for Project Implementation Monitoring includes:
-     the overview of all ongoing activities established at a terroir level, or
within an agro-ecological system, a district, a Program component, a
category of impact or on a yearly basis;
-     the ability to compare with similar experiences and lessons learned;
-     the presentation of general information, in the form of a tutorial tool;
-     the analysis of project execution in quantitative, financial and calendar
terms, for a terroir, a district or generally at the national level;
-     the appropriate and effective use of inputs (type, quantity, cost) by activity;
-     the difference between what has been agreed in the yearly work plan and
what has actually been achieved; and
Computerized Analysis for Project Impact Monitoring:
-     the overview of all ongoing activities established at a terroir level, or
wlithin an agro-ecological system, a district, a Program component, a
category of impact or on a yearly basis;
-     the ability to compare similar experiences and lessons learned;
-     the presentation of general information, provided in the form of a tutorial
tool;
-     the statistical analysis of measures and information collected with .particular
focus on project's effects/results identified in relation to the activities
carried out by the community;
-     the identification and frequency of unforeseen effects related to the
activities. These unforeseen effects can become sufficiently important to
modify the reference diagram for impact analysis;
-     the identification and frequency of risks and negative effects of  the
activities; and
-     the comparison of measures and information gathered with reference data
provided by the baseline study or the diagnosis.
Interpretation
22.   Ensured by the M&E agents of the Program, interpretation will give meaning to
the system's outputs; comments will be formulated according to questions and issues to be
addressed by the decision makers, and recommendations should always offer alternatives.



-50-
Annex 5
Page 8 flO
Furthermore, three « building blocks » are provided within the interpretation process to
broaden the understanding of questions and issues to be addressed by the decision makers:
the motivation of the Government, donors and the rural communities regarding their
participation in the NRM Program, the reference diagram for impact analysis, and the
new approaches implemented in this NRM Program which still require validation.
Production and distribution of findings and recommendations.
23.   This process is expected to generate answers to the questions formulated at the
different levels of decision making. Different methods for production and distribution will
be provided: meetings, wall sheets, summarized data sheets, reports, specific studies,
videos, etc. Meetings will be held on a monthly basis at the terroir level, on a quarterly
and annual basis at all levels. The computerized information system will provide access at
all times for any information for personalized research in the data base. A network in
M&E will be organized by the agents of the NRM unit at the central and regional level in
order to ensure the distribution of the M&E results and to gradually improve the
methodology. Finally, a documentation center specialized in NRM will provide services at
central and regional levels.
M&E organizational set up
24.   Seven (7) persons will be recruited by the NRM Central Unit to implement the
M&E activities, including two (2) at the central level and one in each district NRM unit.
They will work in close relation with the Extension and Liaison agents, and with the
communities. At the central level, collaboration should be ensured with the M&E units of
the different ministries, NGOs and other projects.
25.   At the regional level, the responsibilities of the M&E agents will include the
identification and validation of the measures which are to be selected annually, the data
collection process, the quality control harmonization and data input, the analysis and
interpretation of data at the regionai level, as well as the production and distribution of
findings and recommendation to the communities, the stakeholders at the district, the
department and the central level.
26.   At the central level, the responsibilities of the M&E agents will include training
and the supervision of the M&E team, quality control and harmonization of data, data
collection at the national level, improvement of the M&E methodology, coordination of
the M&E work, analysis and interpretation for the central level, coordination of national
M&E network activities which is part of the National Information System on Natural
Resources, as well as management of the documentation center.
27.   Implementation of a new M&E system will require technical assistance during the
first years to train human resources, to adapt the M&E system to the environment and to
tune up the computerized information system.



-51-
Annex 5
Page 9 of 10
Risks related to M&E
28.   These have been identified from  past experiences and the following major
difficulties will require particular attention during implementation:
ensure the appropriate level of competence and motivation of hired
personnel (by appropriate selection and training of personnel and
productive use of M&E results);
maintain an efficient data collection process by careful supervision of the
process at all levels; and
provide an efficient and useful flow of information produced by M&E
(updated information, quality ofthe analysis and interpretation according to
the requirements of the decision makers and key players).



-52-
Annex 5
Page 10 of 10
IMPACT ANALYSIS
Niger NRM Program
Reference Diagram
Soil
Purchasing power                                         Vegetation
Work load                               V Tater
Production system
Human basic needs
Improvement of living                 Sustainable reconstitution
conditions of rural                   of the production potential
communitdes                           of the natural resources
Improvement of rural communities            Improvement of national
capacities and cont,rol related             capacities related to NRM
to NRM
Organizational                       Information/               `e_
and participative                     communication                     framework
capacities               Technical and
managerial capacities                     Managerial
Financial                                                    and coordination
Capacities
External relation network
ofthe community



-53-
Annex 6
NATURAL RESOURCES ANI) ECOLOGICAL ZONES IN NIGER
1.    Water, soil and vegetation are the three principal natural resources that constitute
the foundation for any agricultural production and rural development. Limited natural
resources will entail low agricultural production and calls for a more rational and intensive
type of management.  In this respect, Niger is not blessed by its natural resource
endowment. This large country with a small population is comparable, in terms of
agricultural production capacity per capita, to Bangladesh because of its limited or low
yielding resources.
2.    Mean annual rainfall in Niger ranges from less than 100 mm in the north to 800
mm in the extreme southwestem fringe. The country is divided in four main agro-
ecological zones:
* the Saharan and Saharo-Sahelian zone, with about 77 percent of the country's total
land area, receives less than 300 mm annual rainfail and is not suitable for rainfed
agriculture;
  the Sahelian zone, covering 12 percent ofthe land, which receives 300-350 mm annual
rainfall;
* the Sahelo-Sudanian zone receiving 350 to 600 mm rainfall and occupying 10% of
Niger's territory; and
*  the Sudanian zone prevailing on 1 percent ofthe territory and receiving above 600 mm
rainfall.
The rainfall pattern is veiy erratic with long periods of drought, often followed by flash
floods. Low rainfail combined with high termperatures and winds all year round amplify
plant evapotranspiration and water deficit. Moreover, average rainfall has been declining
over the last thirty years, and comparison of the isohyets from the thirties to the eighties
shows a southerly shift of up to 200 km. over this flfty year period. There is no evidence,
however, that this trend will continue on a linear basis for another long period, or whether
it is a cyclical or a recurrent phenomenon. In fact, rainfall has been fairly good over the
last three years. This past experience, however, makes farmers and herders even more
sensitive to risk management and encourages a more extensive land use.



-54-
3.    Water resources in Niger are important, though insufficiently tapped.  Surface
water resources come inainly from the Niger river. There is also a network of seasonal
rivers that change their course frequently and inundate nearby land, as well as numerous
permanent and semi-permanent swamps. The Niger River stretches over 550 km in
western Niger and has a flow rate of 30 billion m3 per year. The river offers a gross
potential for irrigation of 300,000 ha (taking into account areas that could potentially be
irrigated by water regulated by the proposed Kandadji dam, for which a feasibility study is
underway). The net irrigable area is estùnated at 140,000 ha. Presently only 12,000 ha
are under irrigation in Niger.
4.    Large depressions (dallols) accumulate important amounts of rainwater that
replenish the water tables and feed Niger's left bank tributaries. However, flash floods
make this resource difficult to hamess. The Ader-Doutchi-Maggia river system annually
carries 200 million m3 of water that are partly exploited through the recent construction of
several dams. The Maradi and Zinder agricultural zones have an irrigation potential of
60,000 ha. The groundwater resource potential for irrigation is also considerable. Niger's
large irrigation potential is far from being fully utilized. Despite the remarkable expansion
of non-govemmental irrigation schemes for dry-season cropping during the 1980s, easily
exploitable water resources still abound, and ample renewable shallow aquifers remain
largely untapped.
5.    Niger has four miain vegetation types which are basically determined by rainfall:
*the northern steppe in the Saharan zone, with no trees or shrubs and with limited
vegetation;
* the steppe with shrubs in the pastoral part ofthe Sahelian zone;
*the steppe with scattered trees in the cultivation part of the Sahelian zone, and
* the savanna, with trees and shrubs, in the Sudanian zone.
Repeated droughts have caused a modification of the volume and composition of natural
vegetation, partlicularly in the rangelands where animal feed has become scarce. Also,
massive numbers of trees and shrubs have died due to drought, leaving barren lands. At
the same time, the northern limit of cultivation has shifted southward with the isohyets.
6.    Soils are generally poor in terms of structure and nutrient content.  Reduced
vegetative cover has exposed the soils to increased water erosion through run-off in the
rainy season, and to wind erosion in the dry season. Runoff drastically reduces water
infiltration, threatening plant growth, and accentuating the pressure for more extensive
land use. Slash and burn cultivation methods are still in use, and the shortening of the
fallow period, due to fist growing popoulation, has increased the soil's propensity to
erode.



-55-
7.    Nationwide, arable land is estimated at 15 million ha or less than 12 percent of the
total land area. The area annually under cultivation is about 3.8 million ha, which
corresponds to a population density of 52 people/km2 of arable land or 200 people/km2 of
cultivated land. It is est:imated that the human carrying capacity in the Sahelian zone is
about 60 people/km2 cf arable land, implying near saturation and the need to take
appropriate measures for a more rational and intensive use of the available land and
natural resources. Pasture land area is estimated at 30 percent of the total area. Dry
wooded savannah forests cover 0.6 million ha.
8.    Niger has 13 types of land use systems, differentiated by several factors including
morpho-pedology, climate, phyto-geography, water resources, location, and population
dynamics. These systems are:
. Plateaux
 River Valleys
o Daliols
o Eastern Plains
 Bassins
- Goulbis
- Rangelands
- Dunes
- Oases
 Komadougou
* Parc W
* Peri-Urban, and
*  Ader-Doutchi-Maggia
Detailed characteristics of these different land use systems are described in the following
tables.



-56-
Annex 6
Republic of NiMer
NÇatural Resotirces NManagemenit Proiect
Probléiimatique, caractérisation et choix des zones d'intervention -
Matrice de presentation des svstênies agraires
Système           Systeme            Systeme           Système            Système           Système
agraire 1         agraire 2          agraire 3         agraire 4         agraire 5         agraire 6
CARACTERISTIQUES
Lac Tchad          Cuvettes         Plaines de          Goulbis        Ader-Doutchi-        Dunaire
Komadougou                              l'est                              Maggia
PROBLEMA'IQ'.UE       Gestio-n:          Ensablement        Baisse            Pas de            Ercsion            Baisse
fartilité         gest:on           hydrique           fercilité des
.mac sous-soi.      Salinité         Remcnéte des      doumera:e                            sols
.Eaux de                             cu:-,ures vers      SG Nkata`
surface                              la nord            Pis de
(pression         gestizn de
démcgraphique)   l'eau
Soulbi MI)
"PORTE D'ENCREE"      Amélioration       Déve loppemeent   Agroforessarie   Doumeraje            Récupération      Hydraulique
culcures           cultures:         et                 (gestion des      des terres de
irr:guées          banane,           organisation       coupes pour       plateaux          Productions
manioc            filière bois       nattes)           'agr;culture      animales
Cultures          et élevage)
Exoloitation                         irriguées         Incensificati
natron                                                 on cultures
de fonds de
_______________   _________________      _________________  Vallées
LCCALISATION          Bassin du           SO Ma:né et       Sud et centre    Centre et           Vallées de la   Centre
Niger oriental    SE 5curé           sud pays           sud Maradi        Mag7on et         Tahoua, Nord
(Ngu.imi /            .               Difea,                              TarKa             Dosso et
Dlffa)                               Zinder, sud,                          (Tahoua,         Tillabery
est Maradi!                         Madaoua,
Kcnni, Keita
et Bouza)
SUPERFICIE            370 000 ha,         10  330 ha        25 000 à           2 000 km'         20 090 km1        180 000 km
APPROXIMATIVE         avec des            (extension        75 000 km'
variations         100 000 ha
saisonnières       avec zones
duna_res)
CLIMAT ET             Nord Sahélien       Sahélien sec    Sahélien             Sahélien au       Sub sahélien    Sahélien
PLUVWCMETRIE          250 à 300           300 à 350         300 à 600          Nord et           350 à 450         300 à 450
mn/an              mm/an             mm/an              Sahélo            mm/an             mm/an
soudanien au
sud 300 à 600
_mm/an
RELIEF ET             Bassin              Depression        Vaste étendue    Ancien lit          Plateaux          Dunaire avec
HYDROLOGIE            sédimentaire        .ncer-dunaire   de sable             d'écoulement      dégradés et       présence des
Nappe                 -es et         surmontée de       Nappe             vallées           plateaux
affleurante        : gppes           qq plateaux et   afleurante          encaissées         latéritiques
affleurantes      collines           Mares             Mares et          Nappes
Modelé dunes    Mares                permanentes       nappes            profondes
vives             temporaires et   et                  affleurantes
permanentes au   temporaires
______________ _  _______sud
SOLS                  Hydrorr.orphes à   Sud arides         Ferrugineux        Sols lourds à   Brun rouge          Peu évolués
pseudo gley et   bruns rouges        tropicaux          gley et           des plateaux      et légers
gley               Vertisols                            d'apport          et à gley
alluvial          dans les
______________                                             vallées
VEGETATION            Steppe              Steppe            Steppe arborée   Doumeraie           Steppe            Brousse
NATURELLE             arbustive           arborée à         à Acacia                             arborée à         tigrée à
Tendance à la    Acacia              albida,                              Acacia albida   combretacées
colonisation       senegal et à    Balanites                              et Ziziphus       sur plateaux
des bas fonds    doums               aegyptiaca et                        mauritiana        et parc
par le             Steppe            arbustive à                          dans les          Acacia albida
prosopis           arbustive à       Leptadenia                           vallées           dans les
Leptadenia        pyrotechnica                                           vallées
pyrocechnica



-57-
Annex 6
Systàsm           Systs=e           Système            Système           Système           Système
T   agraire 1          agraire 2         agraire 3          agraire 4         agraire 5        agraire 6
CARACTER1ST1Ç;'SS
Lac Tchad          Cuvettes         Plaines de          Goulbis       Ader-Doutchi-        Dunaire
Komadougou                             l'est                               Maggia
PROjETS EN COURS    PN'JD/FAO: PDR    P`NUD/,FAC  -:Z   P Agu_é                                 FAO/Icalie.       5TZ: PASP
N'Guigmi                    D"urà - C1f-a                                PIKei.a           GTZ: PMAE
Car.ada: PDAAZ    Afr:care                                               FED: PBVT         _ARE/DA,NICA:
FIDA               ^icuré                                                CARE/DANIDA.    PSALAMA
DANIDA                                                PSALAM.A          S.NV. PTéra
Kr-_ger                                               GTZ  PDRT
2M D.C;:DA                                            F:DA:
2E'I                                                  PSadéguichéri
PDCRIZ
Xse  :é !
CCOW ER7'7RE          Suffisante         !nsuJ-f:anza    :-às                 Très farcle       Suff:sante        In.sufefisante
PROJZETS                                                   L.ns.ff:sante      (pezizes                            cc-cre .en_
zcérations                         de la
lozales)                           3uoerf:c e de
______________________                                                                ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ls  -zne
AGRC-FCRESTERIE       peu déveloccée   de,ocréee           c-rs poussée       développée        déveloopée        ceu
:a-.s cerra:r.s    dans les         dar.s les         développée
terrcirs du       champs            fonnds de
sud               dur.aires *gao   vallée
et du
PKARMACiC.PEE
PCPIT'LA-ICN T-TALE   15 - 30            1,2 à S           45 à 91 (sud;    51 700 hab.         40 à 70           S à 10
RURALE ET DENSITE                                            à 1i  (nord;                       'us qu'à 140
(Hab/km'i                                                                     30 à 'C           zcnes culture
cOMPCSI=T:N           Kanouri/Boudcu   Kanz_rr             *ao3Ussa,          Hazussa,          Haoussa           Superposistor.
SOCC-I_-~Tu,NrJ       merra: Bonnes                        Kar.our: e         pe_ s                               de plusieurs
relations                            2e.ls                                                 groupes
Mobeurs                                                                                     (Zarma, Peuls
(pasteurs; et                                                                              et Hacussa!
Peuls
EVOL=TOON             Aigmentatizn       Augmentaticn       ,aP acemenra      Augmentation      En baisse         En baisse
fte hle            faible           vers les           fa:cze             (exode)
grcsses
agglomérat ions
MI-iR'.LT:IiNS        non                 r3L3 1 eégère du                                      Imortar.r         Imporcant
noro vers le    exode               exode
sa- 
NCM2RE CE
VILLAAES
ORGAN'SATICN          Champs             Champs            Vastes champs    Cha-,ps             Champs de         Vastes champs
SPATILUE DES          ir_ogués           irrigués dans   aunaires             dunaires          pet-tes           dunaîres
EXPLO:.ATI'iNS                           cuvettes                                               dimension:
Parce'les de                        Cultures           Parcelles         cultures
bas fcnds de       Cultures         mara:chères         Lr-oauées         ntensives
va`lées            dunaires          dans bas fonds   dans les
tonds de
.ulcUres de                                            vallées
décrue
TYPES DES             -olvrorns,         manioc,           mil, sorgho,        I.'  sorgho,     mais, sorgho,    mil et
C-LTURES              maniloc, mais,    dattes,            niébé              arachide,         tubercules et   parfois
niébé, sorgho      légumes et        arachide,         t_zoc et          mara:chage        sorgho, niébé
cananes                             zzc_n                               calebasses
TAILLE DES            0,2 à 0,5 ha       cuvettes 0,2    2 à 5 ha sur         3,5 ha dans       0,5 ha            5 à 7 ha
EXPLOITATION                             ha                dunes              les goulbis
dunes 2-3 ha    0,5 ha en             champs
maraîchage        dunaires



-58-
Annex 6
Systôns           Système           Système           Système           Syatème          Système
agraire 1         agraire 2         agraire 3         agraire 4        agraire 5         agraire 6
CARACTERISTIQUSE_
Lac Tchad         Cuvettes         Plaines de          Goulbie       Ader-DoutclLi-       Dunaire
Xomadougou           _                 l'est                             X aggia
JACHERES              Utilisation       Bcnne dans        Jachères          Utilisation       Jachères          Jachères
MAINTIEN              engrais            les cuvettes    courtes,           engrais et        courtes           courtes
FERTILITE             Nigéria           Faible sur        faible            fumier            Utilisation       Contrats de
dunes            fertilité          Jachères         d'engrais et    culture
Jachères                            rares            fumier
longues                            Culture
attelée
PRATIQUES ET          Assoc_acion       cultures          associat:ons      Parc arboré       Association       Monoculture
CULTURES              mil - niébé       extensives        de cultures       BrOlis sous       des cultures    mil domine
Poivron, blé,     avec longues    mil                 doums             avec
manioc, mais      'ac-ères                            Mil, sorgho       rocations,        Calebasses
et sorgho         mil et sorgho                       et maraichage   utilisation
de cultures
________________  attelées
PRESSION FONCIERE   Forte               Forte dans        Porte au sud      Forte             Forte             Faible
les cuvettes                        <morcellement    (morcellement
FaZble                             des               des
ailleurs                            exploitations   exploitations
ZONFLITS FONCIERS   Jui                 Famble            ^ui 'sud)         Oui               Oui               Oui
Augmentent si                       Conflits          Conflits
aar:culture                         agriculteurs-    agriculteurs-
dans le lac                         éleveurs          éleveurs
ELEVAJE               Bovins dans la   petit              Embouche          Bovins,           petits            Elevage
zone du lac       rvu-irants        bcvrine           ovins,            ruminants         extensif
Carnelins et       Ecv:ns,          Ovins et          caprins           dominent          petits
pe-tts            capr:ns) et       caprins            chèvre           qq camelins       ruminants
rum:nantsdans    as:ns              Sédentaire sud   rousse)            et bovins
la zone de la                       Extensif nord    asins
Komadougsu
SANTE ANIMALE         pb épizooties _
DISPCNIBILITE         Suffisante        Siuffisante       pauvre au sud    Faible             Faible            Suffisant
PAST DRALE            mais variable    mais variable   pb au nord           complémentati                       mais variable
selon les         selon les         (pluviométrie)    on fourrage                         selon les
années            arsnées                             ligneux                             années
_COMMERCIALISAT'^N   poivrcn            dattes et         arach:de          céréales          maraichage        produits
DES PRODUITS                            narron             Crente)          niébé             produits          animaux
céréales          oroduits         animaux           Calebasses
poisson et        ioums
miel
(madaroumfa 
POIDS ECONOMICUE                                                            Doumier a-
Agriculture       Natron S..        Agriculture:       G  N'Kaba)       Agriculture:    Agriculture -
Dattes  +        Sud t  <Niébé,   Cultures a.        oignon et
Pêche *-.         Bananes +         Mil)                                coton +..
Nord -
SECURITE              correcte          faible            moyenne           assez             faible            faible
ALIMENTAIRE                                                                 correcte
NIVEAU                Fa_ble            Faible            Mcyen                --rect         Correct           Correct
CESENCLAVEMENT
ACTIVITE PECHE       *oui en baisse     oui en baisse   oui en baisse
ACTIVITE FAUNE        antilopes,        disparue          apiculture
phacochères   _
DISPONIBILITE EN    importante          moyenne           faible            assez bonne       bonne             très faible
EAU
MOBILISATION DE       FaLble (eau du   Dune: faible    Faible               Difficile et    Faible              Difficile:
L'EAU                 sous-sol)         Cuvette:                            faible            Eaux              Eau sous-sol
moyenne                                              d'écoulement



-59-
Annex 6
Problà=atiqur, caractérisation et choix des zones d'itevention
Matrice de precentation des syatèmes agraires
Système agraire 7          Système agraire B          Système agraire 9          Système agraire 10
CAaCTEAISTIQES                                                                _
Dallols                   Plateaux              Fleuve et affluents           Pastoral Nord
PROBLEMATIQUE        Ferc:'::  des sols en    Augmentzation forte des    Dispcnibilité bois de        Variabilité spatio-
baisse (dégradation du   défr:-cements agricoles   feu                           temporelle des
sys:ème de gestion         (sud)                      Problème des               ressources fourragères
cradicionnella)           Baisse faerilité (nord)   aménagemencs (tenure         Déresponsabilisation
foncière)                  des pasteurs sur eau -
Jacinthe d'eau             pâturage
'PORTE D'ENTRES"    Aorofcresterîe              Fi!:Are bois               Mises en défens dunes      Sécurisation production
de bordure                 animale
Petite irrigation          Sécurisation foncière
__________________  ______________________   _________________   par     points     d'eau
LOCALISATICN         Sud-est Nîamev             Sud Ouest pays             Cuest pays                 Nord DA, ZR, TY et sud
(Bcboye, Gaya et          (départements de Dosso    (départemenc Dosso,          AZ
Doucchi)                  er T:llaherr                T:llaber-y et CLN>
SUPERFICIE           S 000 km'                  2  0OO 000 ha (15   km    9 100 km'                   350 000 kmI
APPROXIMATIVE                                   autour Nias.ey
textension
100 000 ha avec zones
duoasres)
CLIMAT ET            Sahélien au Nord et        Sae l:eà  l'ouest et       Sahélien au nord-ouest    Sahélo saharien
PLUVICMETR'E         sahélo soudan:en au        sahélo-soudanren au Sud   et sahélo-soudanieri au    100 à 300 mm/an
Sud                                                   sud
300 à 60C mm/an 
RELIEF ET            Vallée fossile             Placeaux lacéri.tîqes      Vastes plaines              Vastes étendues de
H'YCROLOGIE          Nappe phréatioue           sur socle a:plar:          entalllent les vallées    plaines avec quelques
afn'eurante à oeu         entaillé de vallées         du fleuve                  plateaux et dunes
profonde
SOLS                 Ferrugineux tropicaux    Ferrugineux sur              Hydromorphes a pseudo-    Sabloneux et légers
HRydromor;phes natrcnés    plateaux sabloneux au      gley et vercisols          et limone sableux
par endroits              nord et limoneux et sud
VEGETATION           végéta-ion arbustive       Brousse c:grée à           VAgétation aquatique à    Steppe arbustive
NA7-JRELLE           et arcorée à Parcnarc    Combréracées                 Ech;nochloa                 discontinue
macrophylla, Acacia                                   Sur les bords et rives,
aLbîda et Borassus                                    végétation arbustive       Strate herbacée
asthiepium                                            pauvre dans le nord et
ae_____hio______ium_____ o plus riche dans le sud
PROJETS EN COURS    POT Dallol Bosso,           PMAE,  P rive droLte,      PFED grande irrigation.   PSN
Nord/Sud, PDRAT,          PAGT, PEI', PAS?, POTF,   P Aquaculture, P FIDA,    PENCE
Roneraie DM, PGTF         PDFS                        Petite irrigation,         Camelîns (Zinder)
Baleyara, PAS?                                        Couverture correcte
BaenkoarPu                                     -      sauf affluents
COCVWERTURE EN       Correcte mais à            Correcte macs a            Correcte sauf affluents   Insuffisante
PROJETS              renforcer                  renforcer
AGRO-FORESTERIE      Oui (fruitiers,            Pratiquée pour fourrage   Brise-vent (projets)         Brise vent autour des
ron:ers)                                              Vergers arboriculture      points d'eau
PHARMACOPEE                                                                                           Oui, humain et bétail
POPULATION TOTALE   ./- 60                      1,5 millions               550 00J                    Densité très faible
RURALE ET/OU                                                               80 a 140(sud)
DENS.TE (km')
COMPCSITION          D:erma/Peul                Peul/DDerma/Hacussa        Superposition               Imbrication
SOCIO-ETEC{IQUE                                                            historique des ethnies    Touareg/peul/arabes/
toubous
EVOLUTION            Augmentation faibLe        Augmentation faible        Grosses aggromérations
MIGRATIONS           Forte émigration           Imm:gracitn                Immigration éleveurs et   Glissement vers le sud
pêcheurs                   du système pastoral
________ _______ __   ____ _______ ______   _ _______ _______ _______bo v in
NOMBRE DE                                                                                              Campements disséminés
VILLAGES                                                                                               et mobiles



-60-
Annex 6
Systàme agraire 7          Système agraire a          Système agraire 9          Syst ma agraire 10
CARACTERISTIQUES
Dallolas                  Plateaux              Fleuve et affluents           Pastoral Nord
GRGANISATION         Dans le Dallol,            Parcelles inondées dans   En bordures, champs         Transhumance de saison
SPATIALE DES         petites parcelles          les bas-fonds et           dunaires et de plateaux   des pluies et nomadisme
EXPLOITATIONS        cultures pluviales et    développement de champs   Cultures de décrue dans   en saison sèche autour
jardins                   en limites                 vallée                      d'un point d'eau
En bordure de                                                                    permanent.
plateaux, champs de                                                              Tentatives de cultures
complément                                                                       pluviales
TYPES DES            Riz, mil, mais,            Mil, niébé sous pluie,    Riz, maraichage             Mil, sorgho, essais de
CULTURES             sorgho, niébé, manioc,   sorgho                                                  cultures vivriéres et
canne à sucre et          arboriculture et                                       de contre saison
maraichage                légumes dans bas-fonds
TAILLE DES           3 ha sur terres            2,5 ha sur plateaux et    0,25 à 0,5 ha               Actuellement très
EXPLOITATIONS        plateaux et 0,2 ha         dunes                       (aménagements)             inférieur au seuil
dans les bas-fonds                                    1 à 2 ha sur dunes         normal d'environ 35
UBT/famille
JACHERES             Jachère rare               Contrats de fumure         Fumure organique            Carence proteico-
MAINTIEN             Parcage possible avec    possibles                    Fumure minérale             calorique ec minérale
FERTILITE            restitution organique                                                             de l'alimentation
entraine baisse de la
fertilité
PRATIQUES ET         Associations               Association mil, niébé    Association mil, niébé,   Transhumance et
CULTURES             culturales                 et maraichage              sorgho                      nomadisme
Culture attelée
PRESSION FONCIERE   Forée                       Faible                     Coexistence de deux         Perte de maitrise du
types de gestion des       foncier pastoral
terres
CONFLITS FONCIERS   Conflits                    Risques conflits à MT      Conflits                    Conflits agriculteurs-
_                                                                             61~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~éeveurs
ELEVAGc              Extensif au nord           Extensif avec embouche    Extensif su                  Très extensif
Bovins et ovins           ovine                       rplateaux(bovins,          Camelins, bovins,
Association               Association agriculture   ovins, caprins,              ovins, caprins, asins
agriculture - élevage    - élevage                    Semi-intensif sur
_______________________                                fleuve    (embouche)
SANTE ANIMALE                                                                                          Prophylaxie préventive
partielle
Curatif: néant
DISPONIBILITE        Oui mais pression          Oui                        Existante                   Zone pastorale en
PASTORALE            forte                                                                             régression
CCMMERCIALISATICN   Produits maraichers,        Bois de feu                Produits maraichers,        Viande
DES PRODUITS         natron, maratchi,          Bétail                     Arboriculture, pèche et   Produits laitiers
nattes                                                pisciculture               Artisanat divers
Produits de cueillette
POIDS ECONOMIQUE                                Agriculture  ..                                        ...
Elevage ++
_______________________  Forêt   ++e
SECURITE             Autosufisance mais         ci- bonne                  Forte sur terres            Très précaire
ALIMENTAIRE          risques du à                                          terrasses et cuvettes
démographie
NIVEAU               Correct                    Correct                    Correct, problèmes sur    Grands axes
DESENCLAVEMENT                                                             affluents
ACTIVITE PECHE       Oui                                                   Oui                         oui
ACTIVITE FAUNE       Girafes                    Présence animaux           Oui, gibier d'eau
___________________       1sauvages   faible
DoSPONIBrLITE EN    Importante                  Faible                     Importante                  A améliorer
EAU



-61 -
Annex 6
Problématique, caractérisation et choix des zones d'izntervention
Matrice de prisentation des systébus d'utilisatioe des terres
Systàne agraire ll                 Systame agraire 12                 Systèm  agraire 13
CArUCTERISTIQUES
Système oaion                         Parc W                          Peri- urbain
PRC=LEMA IQUE         Enclavement                          Défrichements agricoles          Dégradation végétation,
Ensablement et érosion               incontrôlés                      Erosion
hydrique                             Braconnage
Vieillissement de la                 Gestion des troupeaux
palmeraie                           (bovins)
"PORTE D'ENTREE"      Débouchés                            Gesticn agro-pastorale           Marchés commerciaux des
Protection des berges                réserve Tamou                    villes
LOCAL;SATICN          Département d Agadez                 Exzreme Sud ouest pays           Autour des grosses
(Tacoa)                         agglomérations urbaines
S,','PSRFIC S                                              10 230 km'donr                    1000 à 1500 km-
APPROXIMATIVE                                              2 200 ko' au Niger * 1300
Tamou
CL;MrzT ET            sahélo saharien à saharien           soudan'en
PLUVICM-TRIE
600 a s00 mm/an
REL;EF ET             Vallées hurrmides                    Plateaux entaillés par le         Zone urbaine à topographie
14YDROLDGIE                                                fleuve niger                      variée
SOLS                  Sabloneux ec légers                  Ferrugineux tropicaux
VEGETATICN CorNFration intra-zonale à                      Savane arborée et arbuatire
NATL'RESLE            acacia et pal-iers                   de tvoe soudanien
PRO0irTS EN COURS    UICi                                                                    Proj et
FED Vallées de l'Air                                                  ceincure verte
MRL
COWuvRTURS EN         Bonne                                Peu couvert
PR5SETS
AGaRO-7-RES7.RR'E     Salvadora persica                                                      Oui
PHAR.MLACOPES
PCP5?LATION TOTALE                                         46 254 hab en périphérie          1 395 555
RURALE ET DENSITE                                                                            dont 25% ruraux-urbains
(km 1 I
COMPOSITICN           Touareg                              Peul/OD erma
SOCIC-ET:'NIQUE-
EVCLUT:DN                                                  Augmentanorn                      Augmentation
.M:GRAT!ONS                                                Immigration                       Immigration
NOMBRE DE
VILLAGES
ORSGASATION          Parcelles réduites autour des    Zones de grandes                      Existence d'un élevage urbain
SPATIALE DES          points d'eau                         exploitation agricoles en         de petits ruminants et d'une
EXPLOITATIONS                                              périphérie du parc               ceinture d'agriculture
dunaire et jardins, vergers,
pêche et cultures hors sol
TYPES DES             Céréales maraichage                  Mil, sorgho et niébé              Céréales, maraichage,
CLtTURES              luzerne                                                                arboriculture et riz
agr-umes
dattiers
TAILLE DES            0,25 à 0,5 ha                        2 à 3 ha                          petites exploitations sur
EXPLOITATIONS                                                                                terres dunaires
ou                               0,1 A 0,3 ha pour les
parcelles jardins
15 à 20 pour les
exploitants d'origine
urbaine



-62-
Annex 6
Système agraire 11                 Systàe agraire 12                  Systa  agraire 13
CAP.ACTSRISTIQUES
Syst&m* oalien                         Parc W                          Peri- urbaini
jAC.;ERE--S           Terreau de Salvadora pers =s         Grandes exploitatior.s:           Pas de jachères
M'4A_.NI Z z-W        Dé]ection- animaux                   przblèmes car pas de              Apports organiques plus ou
FERTILS-m                                                  resti:uzion et pas                moins réguliers
d engrais
PRA :CUES ET          Traction animale                     Associations culturales           Mil principalement
CUL'TUR-S             Irr:gac:ein
PRESSION FONCIERE   Faible pression démcgr3aphque    Très forte                             Très forte
CONFLITS FONCIERS   Cui                                    Cui                               Oui
EZEVAGE               Semi-:ncensif                        Transhumar.cs                     Semi- intensif à intensif
Pecits rumiran:s                     Sédentaires en périphérie        Petits ruminants et bovins
apiculture
SAINTE k'JIMALE                                            Peste, trypano
DISPONISIIITE        Réduite                                                                Fourrage acheté
PA-S-CRAfLE                                                                                  Déchets végétaux urbains
CCMMO7ERCIAL:SATION   Se` e: natron                        Bois de feu                       Riz, maraichage, pêche et
DES PRCDUI-S          Cattes                               Céréales                          lait
Produits maraichers                  M- 1
POIDS ECZNOMICUE      - en déclin                                                           maraichage + 
arboriculture 
SEZUR'TE              Déoerdante des érhanges              Sonne                             Bonne
ALIMENTAIRE
NIVEAU                Enclavé                              cZrrect
DES ENCLAVEMENT
AZTIV:TE PEZHE                                             5i9                               Oui
ACTIVITE FAu-NE       Réserves naturelles Air              Ou4
(Addax  Orec  Moufl^r.)             oas de mise en valeur
DISPCNIB'LIT-- EN    Nacces devenues plus                  Cui                               Problèmes selon sites
EAU                   profondes



-63-
Annex 6
Choix des zones prioritaires d'intervention
A.rrondissements        SA               Caractdristiques               Opérations possibles       Observations
concerées_
SAY                 Plateaux/   Forte croissance démographique    Relations à voir avec
Parc W      Augmentation défr:zhements            projet
agricoles                            Energie Il pour
:-portance de la filière bois        développement d'actions
Czmolémentarizés avec SA 10 et 6  amont des marchés ruraux
Fortes potenzialicés agro-
oastorales
Taux de scclarisation moven
OUALLAM             Plateaux/   Grosse én:gratîon vers Say et         Relations à voir avec
Dunaire      exode exterieur                      PASP et PMAE
DOGON DOUTCEI       Dallol/      Déveloepement agro-forestier
Dunaire/    :rportant avec possibilités
Placeaux    d'extenszon
Fort taux de scolarisation
Densrté forte avec accroissement
Possibilrté utilisation filière
bols ccmmerciale
TESSAOUA            Plaines de  Complémentarités avec SA 10
l'est        Passage du gouibi N'Xaba
Pas de projets
Densité pcculacion importante
Imporanctes capac tés de
dévelonnement agricole ec
pastoral avec utilisation
opportun:;rs tecbr,iqlues
GOURE               Cuvectes!   Fîlière bkcs importante               Développement d'une
Pastoral    Existence orojec L;G                  démarche gestion des
nord/        Cuvet-es mars chères (banane,        terroirs dans les
Pla:nes de  manioc, etc.)                         cuvettes avec
l'est       Systéme traditionnel de gestion   intégration de la
de l'élevage                         logique de déplacement
spatiale des éleveurs du
nord



-64-
Annex 6
Choix des aystAme pziazitair.u
Numéro   lntituli SA                                 Arguma taire                                 Propoaition
Pour                               Contre
1      Lac Tchad    Problématique particulière sur    Stabilité alimentaire et                Non
Komadougou   le plan des relatiors                 maintien fertilité
agricul:eurs-éleveurs               Echanges commerciaux déjà forts
Développement naturel prosopis
2      Cuvettes      Présence de nombreuses cuvettes                                          Oui
avec banane, manioc etc...
Incervention d'un projet lutte
contre ensablement qui pourrait
être complémentaire
Complémentarité avec SA 3
(Plaines de l'est)
Possibilité filière bois           ___      _
3      Plaines de   Forte population                                                          Oui
l'est         Grandes zones d'exploitation
agricole
Présence de zones de bas-fonds
riches en ressources naturelles
mais menacées
Production force de niébé
Relations avec SA 10 (pastoral
nord)
Déplacements de populations du
sud vers le nord [liés aux
l________                fortes densités)
4      Goulbis       Relation avec SA 10 et 3             Trop spécifique Maradi              Non en tant
Activité économique importante    Problème hydrologique non              que tel,
Ressource naturelles très           maitrisable (barrages Nigéria)    possible
menacée (feuilles doums>             Pas de véritable interdéperdance  dans le
avec autres systèmes                cadre du
découpage
adniinistrat
_                                                 .                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~if
5     Ader-                                               Présence de grands projets:         Non
Douchi-                                            Projet intégré Kéita
Maggia                                             (FAO/Italiel
Projet Basse valet de la Tarka
6      Dunaire       Complémentaire avec le SA 8                                              Oui
Problème de maintien et de
restauration fertilité dans le
nord (limiter exode rural)
7      Dallols       Agroforesterie                                                           Oui
Complémentarité avec SA 10 et 6
Mélange de population
Gestion de l'eau
_Amélioration fertilité
8      Plateaux      Problème du développement de la                                          Oui
filière bois
Problème grave des défrichements
agricoles lié à l'augmentation
de la population
9      Fleuve et                                          ONAHA déjà présent                  Non
affluents                                          Pas de vrai problème alimentaire
Pas de solutions envisageables
sur le plan GTR à court terme
10     Pastoral      Poids économique                                                          Oui
nord          Déplacements des troupeaux à
prendre en compte
il     Oasien                                             Problème de sécurité                 Non
A voir suite à évaluation à mi-
._________ _    _ __   parcours
12     Parc W        Complémentarité avec plateaux        Trop spécifique                      Non
Problème de la gestion agro-
pastorale de la réserve de Tamou
Risque majeur relatif au parc
lui-même
13     Périurbain                                         Trop spécifique                      Non



-65-
Annex 7
THE COMMUNITY BASED NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT APPROACH
A. Proeram Conceit and Preparation
1.    The broad and long term idea of a natural resource management program rather than a
sub-sectoral short term project was originally conceived after taking stock of the Livestock and the
Second Forestry Projects, and promising results obtained from other integrated NRM pilot
operations in Niger and elsewhere in the Sahel. In 1988, a first pre-appraisal mission for a
proposed Program (PIGRAR) concluded that the program was too sectoral, being essentially
livestock-oriented. A PPF (P477-NIR) was granted the same year for an amount of US$750,000
to assist in the preparation of a more NRM oriented, more holistic, program. As a result, a
Natural Resource Management Unit (NRMU) was established to prepare the Integrated Natural
Resource Management Program (PIGRN), rebaptized in 1992 the National Natural Resource
Management Program (PNGRN).
2.     Additional funds were made available in 1992 through an IDA-Administered Norwegian
(rant of US$750,000. Financial support for the preparation of the program was also provided
from 1993 by the United States (USAID) under the Agricultural Sector Development Grant
(ASDG 11). Technical assistance was provided by the FAO/Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) to
help the Government in the preparation of this project. As a result, a Preparation Report was
produced that constituted the reference document for the second pre-appraisal. France (CFD),
Germany (GTZ), Denmark (DANIDA), Canada (CIDA), IFAD and UNDPIUNSO were also
invited to participate, since this initiative was considered as part of the preparation of the long-tern
multi-donor National Natural Resource Management Program, of which the proposed Project
would constitute the first five-year time slice.
3.    The second pre-appraisal took place in April 1994, starting with a launching workshop
during which a Team Building technique --the ZOPP or Objective Oriented Planning Method-- was
used with the assistance of a GTZ-funded facilitator. From the Nigerien side, it involved (i) the
Program preparation team; (ii) representatives of the principal ministries (Finance and Plan,
Agriculture and  Livestock, Water and Environment, and  Administrative Reform  and
Decentralization), (iii) Governnent agencies (IGNN, INRAN, Rural Code Secretariat); (iv) local
NGOs; (v) private agencies and (vi) outside resource persons. From the donor side, in addition to
the World Bank, French (CFD), German (GTZ) and U.S. (USAID) aid agencies, as well as UNDP
and IFAD were associated with the workshop. The Centre Sahel of Laval University in Quebec
and a Montreal-based Canadian NGO (CECI) - both funded by CIDA - and two USAID-funded
private agencies - the Land Tenure Center from the University of Wisconsin and a Washington-
based consulting firm - were also involved. Finally, staff from the NRM national programs in
Mali and Burkina Faso also contributed to the preparation and appraisal process by sharing their
experiences and assisting in the program design.
4.    Given the success of the approach used for the pre-appraisal launching workshop and the
sense of ownership it developed, it was decided to conduct the rest of the pre-appraisal along the
same lines, as a workshop, with the support of the same facilitator. In addition, a special working
group on gender issues, led by two women, was set up to ensure this dimension is well taken into



-66-
consideration in all the aspects and components of the Program. These include: staffing of the
Program units, training, contact with community members, diagnosis and design process, choice of
investments and beneficiari.es, land tenure and local empowerment and monitoring and evaluation.
This emerging program is intended to become the umbrella for all NRM activities in Niger, and in
conjunction with the NEAlIPP-CNEDD, will provide a coherent policy and strategic framework as
well as an operational program context for the implementation of the NRM component of the Rural
Development Policy.
B. The CBNIRM Approach
5.     The NNRMP was designed on the principles of the Conumunity-Based Natural Resource
Management (CBNRM) Approach or Approche Terroir which consists of a participatory process,
associating the comrnunity and CBNRM program staff. This approach involves communication,
confidence building and partnership, leading to the design and iniplementation of a plan --the
Terroir Management Plan-- for the optimal and sustainable use of the available natural resources.
This innovative approach incorporates the concepts of "Terroir", "Community" and "Community-
Based Natural Resource Management Plan" (or "Terroir Management Plan"), where: (i) "Terroir"
means the land and other natural resources belonging to --or utilized by-- a community whose
nghts over those resources have been recognized de facto by the other communities living in the
area; (ii) "Community" designates a group of families sharing, on a commonly agreed basis, the
same territory on which they live permanently or seasonally (such as pastoralists and fishermen)
and where they carry out regularly agricultural and/or livestock production activities or other
activities related to the utilization and exploitation of the natural renewable resources available on
the said territory; and (iii) "Community-Based Natural Resource Management Plan" or "Terroir
Management Plan" represents a senies of concrete measures and actions to be implemented. These
actions could be: commumnty organization; protection of resource and land tenure; land use
planning; choice of production and protection objectives and production systems; land
improvement operations (erosion control including stone bunding, agroforestry, windbreaks,
fertility enhancement); water economy and water harvesting; agricultural production management;
forest and range management; production storage, processing and marketing, and socio-economic
investments.
6.     Under this approach, communities are not simply provided with information about
available technologies to deal separately with each issue related to their production activities. They
w'll also be looking at their environment (physical as well as socio-economic) as a whole in order
to determine how their short, medium and long-term objectives can be met, taking into account the
potential as well as the limits and constraints of their environment and how to modify it --without
destroying it-- to better meet their objectives.
7.     CBNRM  projects are not conceived only to help communities design their Terroir
Management Plans, but also to help implement them, by providing communities with adequate
financial resources and technical and managerial back-up, taking into account --and tapping into--
the already existing operations and projects, such as those dealing with research, extension and
credit. The CBNRM approach involves several steps, namely: (i) awareness and trust building,
(ii) diagnosis of situation; (iii) community organization, (iv) design of Terroir Management Plan,
(v) conimunity governmient negotiation and agreement, (vi) implementation of TMP, and (vii)
monitoring and evaluation. These steps are further detailed in the following pages.



-67-
Annex 7
Niger
Programme de gestion des ressources naturelles
L'approche Gestion de terroir
Objectifs:
L'approche gestion de terroir vise à:
* responsabiliser les collectivités et les utilisateurs individuels face à l'exploitation des ressources
naturelles
* renforcer les capacités des communautés à maîtriser la gestion des ressources naturelles
(gestion technique, financière et administrative)
* renforcer les capacités des communautés et des cadres les appuyant à diagnostiquer et planifier
les actions GRN
* restaurer et améliorer le potentiel productif des ressources naturelles (sol, eau, couvert végétal)
 intensifier et mieux sécuriser la production agricole, pastorale et forestière
* améliorer la sécurité foncière
* renforcer la coopération entre les différents utilisateurs et faciliter la résolution des litiges et
conflits.
Définitions:
Les termes Gestion des ressources naturelles, Gestion de terroir, et Aménagement de
terroir sont utilisés indifféremment dans le cadre du Programme national de gestion des
ressources naturelles du Niger (PNGRN). Malgré les nuances observées sur le terrain et au
Sahel, signe d'une pluralité ( acceptée) d'expériences en cours, la démarche Gestion de
terroir réunit les notions de ressources naturelles, terroir, gestion et actions.
Au delà des divergences de type agronomique, économique, écologique ou sociologique, le
terroir est de plus en plus considéré comme une unité de base pour la gestion des
ressources naturelles. Il correspond à l'espace géré par une communauté qui y vit, et qui
travaille une terre bien à elle; cet espace lui assure, par le biais de l'exploitation des
ressources naturelles, ses besoins alimentaires, ses revenus, des échanges commerciaux.
La communauté s'y identifie par une histoire bien spécifique, avec des traditions, des
alliances, des conflits, et le sentiment d'un destin commun.
Le terroir n'est donc pas uniquement un concept de géographie physique; il est aussi
économique, écologique, sociologique et juridico-politique. Il est défini comme « une
entité spatiale gérée traditionnellement par une communauté villageoise ou pastorale, qui y
exerce des droits d'occupation et d'exploitation fondés sur une responsabilité acceptée et
une compétence reconnue par tous les utilisateurs du terroir (Rochette, 1994).



-68-
La gestion (incluant l'aménagement) du terroir vise l'utilisation durable et la plus
rationnelle possible de l'ensemble des ressources du terroir (ressources naturelles,
humaines, animales, financières,etc. (Rochette, 1994). Elle réfère aux méthodes de
planification, exécution, suivi, évaluation, et organisation des ressources requises. Le Plan
d'aménagement de terroir (PAT) est un document utile et pragmatique, qui permet à la
communauté de déterminer ses objectifs à court, moyen et long termes, en fonction d'un
diagnostic qu'elle aura posé sur le potentiel de ses ressources, les contraintes de son
environnement et des mesures qu'elle entend prendre. Le PAT offre un cadre transparent
de discipline et de rigueur, tout en laissant suffisamment de flexibilité pour permettre à la
communauté de tirer profit des expériences et effectuer les ajustements nécessaires.
Le Plan d'aménagement (ou de gestion) du terroir intègre des actions d'aménagements du
terroir à des actions de production agro-sylvo-pastoral, de création d'infrastructures socio-
éconorniques et de développement des ressources humaines de la communauté. Par
exemple, ces actions peuvent être: l'organisation de groupes spécifiques au sein de la
communauté, des mesures de protection des ressources naturelles, l'aménagement et
l'affectation des terres, l'intensification des systèmes de production, la gestion collective
des forêts, l'entreposage, la mise en marché du bois, des puits pour l'eau potable.
Le Plan d'aménagement du terroir (PAT) regroupe dans des documents destinés à
l'usage de l'encadrement et de la cormmunauté, l'ensemble des actions qui contribuent à
une utilisation durable et la plus rationnelle possible de l'ensemble des ressources du
terroir, précise les objectifs de la comrnmunauté, les priorités qu'elle se donne, les
délimnitations de l'espace terroir qui est le sien, les contraintes à lever. L'ensemble du
processus de préparation d'un PAT est contr_lé par les communautés.
Il est établi dans une perspective à long terme et est traduit en programmes annuels
d'actions, avec budgets, calendriers, ressources requises et dispositions d'engagement avec
les partenaires.
Le Plan d'aménagement du terroir fait l'objet d'un engagement formel entre la
communauté et le CONSAR, Conseil d'arrondissement mis en place dans le cadre de la
décentralisation pour régler par ses délibérations, les affaires considérées comme de
l'intérêt de l'arrondissement. En attendant le processus de mise en place de cette institution
décentralisée, le COTEAR élargi joue ce rôle.
Enfin, il faut aussi rappeler que le plan d'aménagement du terroir est à l'échelle de la communauté
rurale l'équivalent de l'aménagement du territoire au niveau national et régional, à savoir, un
instrument de politique spatiale qui vise le développement équilibré d'un espace déterminé, qui
part de l'intérêt général et qui essaie d'harmoniser les intérêts des différents sous-groupes qui
composent son entité sociale. Il doit donc y avoir articulation entre les PAT et les schémas
d'aménagement du territoire, là où ils existent. Ainsi, l'approche gestion des terroirs est
fondamentalement de type participative, flexible et itérative, ascendante, décentralisée, et
multisectorielle.



-69-
La mise en oeuvre de la démarche Gestion de terroir
Le choix des zones d'intervention pour le PNGRN
Treize systèmes agro-écologiques ont été identifiés au Niger et une brève présentation
synoptique se trouve en annexe 6. Ces systèmes sont définis selon leurs caractéristiques
phyto-géographiques, morpho-pédologiques, hydrauliques, ainsi que par la pression
démographique, le niveau de désenclavement, le mode d'utilisation des ressources
naturelles et le niveau de pression sur ces ressources.
Le choix des zones d'intervention, au moment de la préparation du PNGRN, a tenu compte
des critères suivants
-     le soulagement de la pauvreté;
-     des zones homogènes afin de s'assurer de la prise en considération des
problématiques majeures pour éviter les choix arbitraires;
-     l'existence des projets majeurs couvrant de vastes espaces et qui ne justifierait pas
l'implantation d'un autre projet pouvant apparaître concurrent; et
-     le problème de sécurité pour la circulation des personnes et pour la motivation des
communautés concernées.
Les étapes pour la mise en oeuvre de la démarche PA T
Pour préparer ces PAT, une démarche générale a été esquissée au cours des différentes
conférences internationales des années 88 - 94, sur la base des nombreuses expériences-
pilotes de développement rural menées par les ONG, les services gouvernementaux et les
bailleurs de fonds. Cette démarche comporte huit étapes présentée au tableau suivant et
détaillées dans le Manuel de procédures du PNGRN.



-70-
Etapes de mise en oeuvre de la démarche GRN au niveau des terroirs.
1.    Choix des terroirs
* sensibilisation des intervenants
* identification des terroirs
. mise sur pied d'un fonds documentaire
* choix des terroirs
2.    Prise de contact
* Premier contact et mise en confiance
. Pré-diagnostic et organisation provisoire de la communauté
. 3. Diagnostc concerté etparticipatif(fMARP)
* Diagnostic par un dialogue continu
* Analyse du bien-fondé des actions
4.    Elaboration du PA T
 Rappel du diagnostic
. Evaluation des buts de la communauté
 Identification des problèmes rencontrés et des actions possibles
* Lignes directrices pour sélectionner les actions
* Lignes directrices pour la gestion
. Préparation des documents: officiels pour les agents d'encadrement et terrain, pour iles
communauté
5.    Approbation du PAT
. Présentation du Plan à la communauté
* Présentation du Plan aux autorités
 Préparation du contrat d'engagement mutuel
. Réunion finale tripartite
6.    La mise en oeuvre d'un PAT
* Plans annuels d'action
* Organisation de la cormmunauté
7.    Mesure, analyse et interprétation des résultats
* par la communauté et par les techniciens
* Replanification (retour à l'étape 4.)
8.    Le désengagement du Programme auprès d'un terroir



-71-
ANNEX 8
THE USAID - SUPPORTED
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT GRANT
The Agriculture ,Sector Development Grant Program, Phase II (ASDG II)
involves UD$28 million of USAID funding aimed at contributing to the development
objective of increasing agricultural production and rural household income in Niger. More
specifically, the program's purpose is to enhance the ability of rural inhabitants to gain
control over the resources they habitually use, and to manage and profit from them in a
sustainable manner. Of the total grant funds, US$20 million are dedicated to budgetary
support to the Government of Niger and the establishment of an NGO/private sector
fund, while the remaining US$8 million are for funding a technical assistance project
which provides support in areas such as training, studies, commodities, long- and short-
term technical assistance., and policy impact evaluation. Since March 1993, project
assistance has targeted activities which: increase land and resource tenure security;
improve relations between local communities and government extension staff (especially
foresters); foster decentralization of decision-making in natural resource management
(NRM); and facilitate legal recognition of community-based organizations dealing with
NRM. A special project unit was established in early 1995 for the purpose of managing
the NGO/private sector fund which will provide small grants to NGOs, small private firms
and community organizations operating in the NRM field.



-72-
Annex 9
Page 1 of 6
Niger
Projet de gestion des ressources naturelles
Formation et développement des ressources humaines (DRH)
Justification
1)    L'introduction de l'approche «Gestion des ressources naturelles» (GRN) comme un des
axes stratégiques majeurs en matière de développement rural au Niger repose sur un important
changement d'attitudes et sur l'acquisition de connaissances et capacités nouvelles aussi bien chez
les agents d'encadrement (au sens large), le personnel technique et administratif qu'au sein des
communautés rurales elles-mêmes.
2)     Les visites d'investigation menées au cours de la phase préparatoire du PNGRN au sein
d'un certain nombre de structures (projets, services de l'Etat, communautés rurales) impliquées
dans le domaine de la GRN font ressortir une insuffisance marquée en matière de formation. Ces
insuffisances se présentent tant en termes de quantité qu'en terme de qualité.
Souvent les projets ne disposent pas de ressources importantes pour le développement des
ressources humaines. Leurs activités de formation ne prévoient pas toujours répondre aux besoins
du personnel technique, des villageois ou d'autres collaborateurs. Les modules ne sont pas toujours
adaptés aux spécificités des groupes-cibles, ou à la nature des insuffisances observées. Souvent la
formation est abandonnée en cours de processus.
La plupart des responsables de projets reconnaissent ces insuffisances notoires et manifestent leur
intérêt face à un système adapté de formation qui serait capable de lever ces insuffisances.
3)     Parmi les structures de formation actuellement existantes, peu d'entre elles sont en mesure
de répondre aux besoins nouveaux de la GRN. En effet, il sera beaucoup plus question de
formation continue, active et s'adressant aux adultes que de formation classique conventionnelle.
On sait toutefois que des individus, des projets, des ONG, certaines institutions au Niger, de même
que des structures émergentes dans la sous-région (Burkina Faso, Mali, etc.) pourraient être
étoffées et mieux exploitées.
Pour toutes ces raisons, la mise en oeuvre de l'approche GRN doit être accompagnée de la mise en
oeuvre au plan national cl'un programme global de développement des ressources humaines visant
l'ensemble des différents acteurs impliquées à la GRN.



-73-
Annex 9
Page 2 of 6
Définition
Les concepts de formation et de développement des ressources humaines réfèrent à un ensemble
d'activités variées comme la formation formelle, l'information, la vulgarisation, la formation des
formateurs, et la sensibilisation des groupes. Le programme de développement des ressources
humaines tel qu'envisagé dans le cadre du PNGRN comportera particulièrement:
*  des activités de formation continue, de courte durée, réparties en des sessions diverses, avec
des modules spécifiques;
*  des activités d'information/sensibilisation visant elles aussi différents groupes-cibles ; et
*  des activités de communication.
Objectifs du volet Formation /DRH
1)     Au cours de cette première phase du PNGRN, la formation vise à rendre les différents
acteurs (communautés, agents d'encadrement au sens large) aptes à démarrer les activités
de GT/GRN et à progressivement étendre leurs actions dans ce domaine.
2)     Le montage du volet doit viser par ailleurs à valoriser et renforcer les ressources existantes
en matière de capacités de formation (infrastructures et compétences).
Les groupes-cibles
La gamme des intervenants en matière de GRN est relativement large. Ces intervenants ont été
classés en groupes-cibles, selon leurs spécificités socio-professionnelles et l'échelle de leurs
interventions (local, régional et national).
La démarche deformation /DRH au sein du PNGRN
Les 4 étapes de toute activité de formation J DRH en GRN sont les suivantes:
1. Identification des insuffisances ou défaillances au sein d'une structure de fonctionnement
(groupe-cible) GRN.
2. Analyse de ces insuffisances en relation avec la compétences requises, et manquantes. (Skill Gap
Analysis).
3. Conception à la carte des modules de formation.
4. Mise en place des ressources requises pour délivrer le module de formation. Suivi et Evaluation
immédiat et a posteriori des résultats et retour à étape 1, pour assurer un processus continu de
formation.



-74-
Annex 9
Page 3 of 6
Organisation du volet Formation /DRH
L'exécution des différentes étapes prévues par la démarche de formation / DRH repose sur une
dynamique souple, appelée à répondre à des besoins évolutifs, de différents niveaux, sur un vaste
territoire et pour des besoins de divers types.
Face à ces impératifs, la nécessité d'un organe de coordination devant constituer l'interface entre
d'une part la demande exprimée par les différents groupes-cibles et, d'autre part, les structures de
prestation de formation existantes dans le pays, ou la sous-région, s'impose. Cet organe de
coordination sera l'Ensemblier, ou la capacité de formation du PNGRN.
Cet Ensemblier sera chargé de la gestion du volet Formation / DRH et de la coordination de
l'ensemble des activités à entreprendre dans ce cadre. Il fera appel à des prestataires de service
selon les différents besoins de formation.
L'Ensemblier est membre à part entière de la CGRN, et traduit en terme opérationnel la fonction de
formation/DRH attribuée à la CGRN.
Responsabilités de l'ensemblier
Les responsabilités de l'Ensemblier sont:
*  tenir à jour un répertoire sur les ressources disponibles au pays et dans la sous-région, pour
des prestations de formation;
*  identifier les insuffisances et les compétences requises, permettant de préciser les besoins en
formation auprès des différents groupes-cibles;
* superviser le développement des modules de formation, cette dernière activité étant confiée aux
prestataires de formation;
*  se tenir à jour sur les plus récents développements en matière de concept GRN, de techniques
de formation des adultes, de méthodologie de formation, et de prestataires de formation;
*  veiller au  recrutement, à la coordination, et à la supervision  des prestataires de
service;
*  superviser la conception des campagnes de sensibilisation;
*  coordonner les activités de formation, sensibilisation et communication avec les autres
fonctions de la CGRN;
*  veiller à assurer la logistique requise pour le bon déroulement des séances de formation ; et
*  demeurer en contact avec eux vis-à-vis des projets GT/GRN au Sahel (particulièrement au
Burkina Faso et au Mali, Bénin, etc.).
Composition de l 'ensemblier
L'Ensemblier sera composé de deux cadres de haut niveau, recruté sous statut contractuel, dans
des champs d'expérience professionnelle liés à la pédagogie / formation des adultes et à la
communication. Comme leur mandat correspond à des tâches relativement nouvelles au Niger, ils
bénéficieront de l'appui d'une assistance technique ponctuelle pour les aider au cours des
premières années à développer leur capacités en relation avec le mandat qui leur est confié. Cette



-75-
Annex 9
Page 4 of 6
assistance technique pourra les aider à identifier avec eux, leurs insuffisances et leurs propres
besoins en formation (ex dans les domaines des méthodes de formation des adultes, de la gestion de
la formation, et de la conception de programmes de formation).  Le statut contractuel de
l'ensemblier ainsi que le choix de confier la livraison de la formation à des prestataires de services
vise à développer et progressivement renforcer des capacités nationales appartenant au secteur
privé, dans les domaines des services divers liés à la formation et au DRH.
Besoins en assistance technique
Le rôle d'interface est nouveau au Niger et pour remplir efficacement cette fonction, l'Ensemblier
aura besoin d'appuis techniques ponctuels, en termes substantiels au cours des premières années du
PNGRN, afin d'être en mesure de répondre à la demande du PNGRN (la formation est une
fonction essentielle en début de programme).
Les domaines d'expertise requis ne sont pas encore précisés; ils varieront selon les compétences du
personnel recruté pour l'Ensemblier. On pense que l'appui technique pourrait se situer dans les
domaines suivants:
* techniques de formation des adultes;
* gestion de la formation (logistique, contrôle, développement du programme);
*  conception de matériel pédagogique adapté ; et
* techniques de communication.
L'assistance technique prévue au volet formation pourra également être sollicitée et mise à profit
pour assurer un appui aux prestataires de services, afin de renforcer leurs capacités.
Echéancier
La formation sera un tremplin essentiel au lancement des actions des différents acteurs engagés
dans le PNGRN. Pour assurer un démarrage rapide de la composante PAT, l'Ensemblier devra
cibler en priorité la formation des équipes d'encadrement terrain (EMP et AT), tout en mettant au
point les programmes de sensibilisation des autorités locales, régionales. Interviendront ensuite les
formations de tous les autres acteurs directement ou indirectement engagés dans le processus du
PNGRN, au fur et à mesure de leur entrée en action.
L'atelier de lancement du PNGRN permettra à l'Ensemblier de démarrer son programme de
sensibilisation du grand public à l'échelle nationale. Ces activités de sensibilisation se poursuivront
sur une base régulière et s'étofferont progressivement.



-76-                                       Annex  9
Page 5 of 6
Les szroupes cibles de la formation
Acteurs directs du programme                              Partenaires-collaborateurs du programme
Au niveau du village
* opérateurs privés
Villageois                                                * les scolarisés
* les femmes
Agents de contacts                                        a les leaders d'opinion
* la commission locale en GRN
* l'auto-encadrement
* les animateurs et les chefs de poste
Xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx   Au niveau de l'arrondissement/département
Equipes mobiles                                           * l'encadrement technique
* autrcs projets et ONG GT/GRN
* prestataires et opérateurs
* élèves
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX   Au niveau national
Cellule GRN                                               a autorités de tutelle
* prestataires, opérateurs
* autres projets et ONG GT/GRN
* universitaires et élèves des écoles techniques et
professionnelles
* grand public



Ial>tab Il svl: ,'liqi te` (des  i:i (,;'.S diu l     Fort ma<> ti onii <
au c`irs (le V'Anincée I
iIIE 11  IE) L'ACTION                                      PEZIODEE) IN M1)OIS (1.xévcml ion)                            1< !i>ONliJII,IT 
,_   A - ,\:clicr I'resl; l;airezs F <rugi ilion                                             7           9     1<   il   12
J i -  SR;ulon RepcrPoiîe I>reslalmires                                                                                                     CIGRN
C ~        ~ ||-L`.Ilic r. iggÇo/.scmgsibil.CulII.iboraticurs                                                                                          C _ l    -/( IRN
|I t- i>rcp.lr.pai(;l Ilrnjels Appels d'noTre                                -                                                                             C/KRN
é | -         ';! fsespoglsables "EInseili)lier"                                                                                              C/GRN
.é - lectiti des !ChI'                                                               _IGN
ttlec- ticli  des Aimimn:gteurs terra;in cu tN
O         ,! - 'xt:clion des Premalatires Formalion                                                                                                        ciG RN
c- ':    Perfecitioninerment "'inseinbllier"           .                                                                                           RN
s1 . E   - I;';:.`;îi*,e Ct stage (les EI>   '                                                                -    -  _
v                      ci|  I on;;l  et slage des AI,  1,  -nsc.nblicr
w-. Cr
"7   X | - I'rog:n:::n:;e médiam (itîlo. Sesi;ib.  ublic)                                      .nseiiiblier
c   <- c >    - ïzin    i     i.,brn M emnbrs % / KN 'stMitd.1)                                                                                           Lnscmniier
'-i; c cu
.o a>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ci>  I-G-'                         (luv  î',&gto es i~C osprograsmiu,m                                                                                     I1CIlIIC
OQl
m CD
CO



-78-
Annex 10
Page lof 4
LAND TENURE AND LOCAL COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT
Land Tenure
1.    Rural lands in Niger have essentially been managed according to traditional and
customary land tenure rules, based on family ownership of the land and individual land use
- rather than property - rights. In some cases, land belongs to a small group of land
owners in the community and is lent to other community members in exchange for a
percentage of the harvest. Community land is administered by local chiefs. As long as
land was plentiful, land tenure security was not a serious issue. Shifting cultivation did not
require any long-term investment which would have required some form of tenure
security.
2.    This situation has, however, evolved over the last thirty years under the effects of
rapid population growth and repeated droughts.  Arable land became scarce and
competition for it increasingly frequent. As a result, conflicts among communities, within
communities, and between farmers and herders developed, often ending tragically. A
USAID-supported study carried out in six districts by the Land Tenure Center indicated
that between 1989 and 1993, 294 conflicts involving agricultural land occurred, of which
195 were related to ownership, 39 to inheritance, and 29 to land property delimitation.
The same study identified 121 conflicts related to pastoral activities:  70 about the
delimitation of grazing areas, 22 about passage rights, 23 about animal damage to crops,
and 6 about water points.
3.    Between 1960 and 1987, under the regimes of President Diori (1960-1974) and
President Kountché (1974-1987), a series of laws on land tenure were passed, aimed
essentially at reducing the powerful role of traditional chiefs, strengthening the role of
central government, and giving the state ownership over lands declared vacant. In 1987,
the Government of Niger, with the assistance of several aid agencies, particularly USAID,
FAO and IDA, initiated a very ambitious task: the preparation and implementation of a
Rural Code. The process was marked by many consultations, meetings, seminars, and
workshops, with wide representation of the members of civil society and local and
regional authorities. The Code was approved on March 2, 1993 by ordinance. The
purpose of the Code is (i) to establish the judicial framework for agro-sylvo-pastoral
activities in the perspective of land use management, environmental protection, and human
development, (ii) to provide security for rural operators by recognizing their rights; and
(iii) to promote development through rational organization of the rural world. The Rural
Code considers that security of land tenure in agriculture is a sine qua non for rational and
sustainable development of this sector.
4.    The Rural Code constitutes a legal breakthrough in Niger and the Sahelian Region.
It provides a broad framework, establishing rules for the access, use and management of
natural resources, principally land, water, forests, and wildlife. It deals with land tenure as
well as land use and management. The code recognizes property rights (collective or



-79-
Annex 10
Page 2 of 4
individual) of farmers, taking into consideration existing customary as well as modern
appropriation modes, and therefore provides them with land tenure security. Access rights
to pastoral and water resources are recognized for pastoral communities, who also have
priority rights on specific pastoral territories they have traditionally occupied ("terroirs
d'attache") and property rights over areas of settlement inside the "terroir d'attache".
The Code insists on the notion of consultation with the people when public actions are
taken for the execution of collective investments. The Rural Code promotes the creation
of Land Tenure Commissions at district level that will be competent to determine land
tenure rights and identify land uses. The Code is complemented by a Water Code
(promulgated in 1993) and a Forestry Code (under revision), providing Niger with a set of
laws regulating access and use of rural natural resources.
5.    In the context of this project, the Rural Code constitutes a positive step forward,
as it provides access to private property and, therefore, land tenure security. Certain
issues, however, remain too broadly defined and will be addressed through complementary
legal texts and implementing decrees, presently under preparation. These issues are:
(i)   the rights and security for farmers who do not own land but who have been
farming for generations on land belonging to the chief or other members of the
community, as there is no provision for concessions or long-termn rental rights.
Other laws, however, such as the Civil Code, are addressing this issue;
(ii)   the definition of vacant or unmanaged land: the Code states that any land
not put under management for more than three consecutive years can be
termporarily lent to another farmer.  It does not specify however what is
considered as being "under management," as the practice of shifting cultivation
leaves land fallow for long periods of time. A text is presently under preparation
which will lead to a legal definition;
(iii)  the definition of "terroir d'attache" for the pastoralists: A study is being
initiated which will lead to a legal text.
6.    The Government is strongly committed to implement its land tenure policy, but
realizes that a test phase is necessary in order to verify the applicability of the Rural Code
on a small scale basis and propose the necessary adjustments through implementation
decrees or to recommend amendments before implementing it nationwide. For that
purpose, it has requested donor support to install Land Tenure Commissions in seven
districts on a pilot basis. Denmark, the Netherlands, and Switzerland have already agreed
to finance four Land Tenure Commissions. USAID has also earmarked funds for training
the members of these commissions. IDA would provide additional support to the process
in the framework of the proposed project.



-80-
Annex 10
Page 3 of 4
Decentralization and Local Community Empowerment
7.   Individual ownership of land and resources cannot solve all natural resource
management problems, as many of these resources are community-owned. Crop land can
be - and de facto always has been - managed at the individual level. However, pastoral
and forest lands, water resources and infrastructure continue to be community or public
property, and their management and use in Niger is also often collective.  Local
communities nonetheless do not have the legal identity and power to administer these
resources, that are therefore considered as everybody's and nobody's property.  In the
early years of independence in 1964, Niger addressed these issues by passing the first
decentralization law, giving districts legal identify and financial autonomy. However, this
law and the subsequent amendments were never fully implemented.
8.    Under the new democratic government, a new "Law determining the fundamental
principles of administration of districts and municipalities" (the Decentralization Law) was
adopted by the Government in October 1993 and ratified by the National Assembly in
September 1994.  Under the Decentralization Law, districts and municipalities will
become legal entities as "territorial communities." They will have the responsibility for
local finances and the management of local public services and community assets.
Districts and municipalities will be represented by elected councils. The role of the future
District Councils (CONSARs) is important to the proposed project, as decisions will be
taken at the district level regarding the support to be provided to local communities. The
decisions will be taken jointly by central government representatives - the sous-préfets -
and the district councils. Similar autonomous setups at the municipal level - the municipal
councils - are also planned under the same law. Such autonomy is not considered under
the present law for the local community level (villages or terroirs), but this is expected to
be the next step in decentralization. Such a step is currently being pursued with the
support of the USAID-funded Agriculture Sector Development Grant, Phase II.
9.    In a study jointly funded by CILSS and USAID through ASDG II, the need and
the options for empowering local communities through the legal recognition of
decentralized NRM management entities such as village land use committees or local
councils for NRM (Comités de Gestion de Terroir) were documented and explored. In
June 1994, a major regional conference was again organized by the Club du Sahel and
CILSS on the themes of decentralization and land tenure in relation to improved strategies
for NRM and sustainable rural development. Niger was a major contributor to the most
recent regional conference organized in Praia, and shared its experience gained since 1989
with the development and adoption of the Rural Code and the promotion of community
participation in NRM. In November 1994, the Rural Development Sub-Committee
examined this study and decided to research this question in more detail, in order to
pursue the legalization of such community-level committees as a means to empower local
communities and promote their participation in NRM decision-making. Development of
such legislation would be fully consistent with the country's rural development policy
framework.



-81~-
Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
10.   Land tenure issues relevant to natural resource management are dealt with
essentially by five government structures: (i) the Permanent Secretariat for the Rural
Code, within the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, which was responsible for the
preparation of the Rural Code and is in charge of preparing its implementation decrees. It
will also be responsible for their implementation; (ii) the Interior Ministry, which holds
power over the implementation of land tenure legislation and environmental protection
through its representatives at regional and district levels (Préfets and Sous-Préfets), while
traditional authorities, particularly canton and village chiefs, often act as auxiliaries of the
central administration in land disputes; (iii) the Ministry of Justice, which is also in charge
of dealing with all land disputes if a first phase of conciliation by the traditional local chiefs
fails; (iv) the Land Use Planning Department under the Ministry of Equipment; and (v)
the Regional Development Department within the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Under the present project, issues relating to land tenure at the community level will be
identified and resolved by the appropriate authorities before grants are made for the
implementation of Community-Based Natural Resource Management Plans.






E;D Le:
N NIGER                                                                                                                                                                     Y A
NATIONAL NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM                                                                                             x               -                                                       L I B VA
PROGRAMME NATIONAL DE GESTION DES RESSOURCES NATURELLES
LAND USE SYSTEMS AND PROJECT MAIN SITES                                                                                                               - .          .
SYSTEMES AGRAIRES ET ZONES D'INTERVENTION
g  I PROJECT SITES                                                                                                                                                                          PAVED ROADS
R     1 ___ZONES DU PROJET                                                                                                                                                                           ROUTES PERMANENERSRE
PASTORAL SYSTEM                                                                    (St   '                                                                                                  EARTIEROADS
SYSTEME PASTORAL IDIILvERAGE ET PERMANENr;                                                                                                                                                  FE U :    =   RIVERS
RIVER VALLEY SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                                         V FLEUSE SRCEDTONS
SYSTEME DE LA VALLEE DU FLEUVE                                                '                                                      00\                                                    VILLES SCELCTIONNES
DALLOL SYSTEM                                                              y  -                                                                                             4 '             DISTRICT CAPITALS
SYSTEME DES DALLOLS                                                                                                   'HEP iiEU DPARRQNEiNC                                                               ET ENS
ADER-DOUTCHI MAGGIO TARDA 'Y7'T''''                                                                                                                                                   S     DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
SYSTEME ADER-DOUTCHI-MAI   TAR8A T/TEM                                                                                                                                                       HEPEF-LIEU DE DEPARTEMENT
____SYSTEME ADER-DOUTCHIR-MAGGIO- TARDA                                                                                                                                                         NArNL AIA
-20                  i GOUERI SYSTEM                                                    /                                                                            D, L ,,1 ®a A                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
0GSYSTEME DES GOUL8IS                                                                      4 '  L i T                                                                                    __       ISTRCT BOUN0ARs S
SYSTEME DES GOULBIS                                                                                                                            Llm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ -   ISREC D'ROUNDAR-ESi,I
EASTERN PLAINS SYSTEM                                     /                                                                                                                    |            LIMRTEND'ARRONDISSEMEN
SYSrEME DES PLAINES DE L-EST                                                                                            D   E  Z                                                    -        -   DEPARTMEINET REUDENS
DUNE SYSTEM                                F.R "                                                           A   G_ A OIMTERDE IDANTEMRNTArNES
SYSTEME DUNAIRE                   ., '                                                                                                                                                      INTERNATIONALES
HIGH PLAINS SYSrEM
SYSFEME OES PLArEAUX                  k       .                                                                                              *-,Imo
MAINE-SOROA BASIN SYSTEM             I
SYSTEME DES CURVErTES DE MAINE SOROA   j                  f    -                                                      i                                                                   CHAD
I-------~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                              - -  -- - -.                             . .   . . .
j                                 -                                     I                                            -`' 
!    (.<       i           __t-----  ----------------- ----
j \., i G~~~T   H i G H   L ÀzE R   I N E  
t    \                         ÇTchi~~~~~~~~~~!gho,.o j'e'   
j    LABARADNE                'h                 Sa  SQ |                                                                                                           100  15   :'V
JAOARAL-)ENE                                                                                                     K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILDMETERS
DIFFA
Td' T.b. dN                         Z ND          R                                                                             dnomHpnr.0O
t                                                                                            on h* 10900 mclvi ol~~~N G    G  
-. ~~~~~~~~~EI                                                                                           wtt boondO'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.-   - -f
PILE  LiE S. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Z   ND                                         
g;XE~~E
T.,o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"  Roc,,,                                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
0o,~~~~I  T  Y~~~~n~~n            aI.,    O,'ojn     il M           Coco                                                                   ALGERIE       c.         nEYA~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ~ ALGRI
Onde,                 ~~~~MAINES-RCAX           ,-'
ZCJMJ' ~~~~  ~ ~                        ____      '  to~~~~~.M. ~Di 
y    '                                       .A. DARA -'Oga                                                                                       C-~\                                              HAO 
U  R  K  1  N  A                                                                                                                                     z-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGERIA   I-
(D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ GHAN l~                                                                                                         'I-
PASO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N      
8 E N 1 N~~~NIERA 






NIGER   N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lORD 2535-
NATIONAL NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                                         L I B YA
PROGRAMME NATIONAL DE GESTION DES RESSOURCES NATURELLES
POPULATION  DISTRIBUTiON                                                          .-` -            z ,\                                           .    
REPARTITION DE LA POPULATION                                         --`
PAVED ROADS                        ISOHYERS IN MILLIMETERS (C-CROP GROWING SEASON IN DAYSI       r`
ROUTES PERMANENTES                 lOCHYE7ES EN MM iC-OUREE DE LA PERIODE DE CROISSANCE EN JOURS)J~ - 
EARTH ROADS                        POPULATION DENSIT' [lNHABITANTS/k,,'j-
ROTES ROTER                         DENS TE OE POPUTLATONR  979 HABITANTS/km') R                    .-                                                                                           POPULATION  DENSITY:
-~-RIVERS                                  -      -                                     -           .- c                                                                                              DENSITE DE POPULATION
FLEUVES                              -           I
O  SELECTED TOWNS                                 0-0.                                                                                                                                                        AGADEZ
VILLES SELECTIONNEES                  _                                                                                                                                                                    AGADEZ 0 65
DISTRICT CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                          ARLI 0   1
CHEF LIEU D'ARRONDISSEMENT         - -         5 1 10 0                                                                                                                                                            0 03
S     DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                            101 - 20 0                        */t                                                                                                                       DIFFA
CHEF LIEU DE DEPARTEmENT                       5         5        -O, ,                                                                                                                                      FFa O 3
:NArIONAL CAPITA                                                                                                          --Ar SCROA
CAPITALE NATIONALE              >                                          , û                                                                            I iL '.iGUMI ù                                            3
DISTRICT BOUNDARIRES                                                   /
LIMITE O'ARRONDISSEMENT                                                                 ,                                                                                                  i               ZINDER
~'-  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                          _6A'MEY 57 0
9964RIA 34 0
LIMITE DE DEPARTEMENT                                                                                        R        A    G      A   D    E   Z ;UGIA 29 0
JNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                    W -  COURV  0
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
- _- ?-- -=-       -    l                      o                                 IMARADI
50   '00   150  200                                        l                                                                    -iDUNFA 39 S
KILO.ETER5                       j                                                                                                                                                               S/  /     >~    - -~T5AGUA 29 6
K,.OA'ET5            O         =       _                                                                                          _             .             A    2- I._ J  SAYAHI 26 3
Il,  '-o-.                                                                         I                 O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AKOROIO07
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -   - - - - - -  . ..   .   ..  .   . .   .   .
L   > r-----o=,-_===^___  ____H __________________________ o- _o -   ,                                           !                 TAROUA
_ - 7°°m 4 L '  R                                                             ç                                                                                     v r c h H OC  E  <LI N S- !_ KEITA 20 2
.   _  qOo,.,n.                                   _|                                           |                 IAEHO'A 10 139
i - M A L I : H Z t r ii, b S-_  / 'N.).                                                                                                         TCHIN TABARADENE I 4
's               -                                     .-        
CAGA 21 9
'o~~~~~~~v--,---o                                 I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIFFA                                   Dosso18 
-~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~NIAMEIY
AMI '-""---.t  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                     I--                  -ILLOBER  172
-'-'--c,                                         7     '     "                                                                              ,                                 SERA 142~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J1G   lTRAE 
'MOOEO,EU                                                                                                                                                              O~~~~~~~~~~----    ~NDE      A,    
4-                                              DAXORJA                       -                                                                      C H A D00L6,6
RI             A  pÀs     I,~i                                                                                                                                                                                              5 
2il- L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o o Q'~ 
*~~~SOROA, ~~~~~-\-----                 .~~~~~~~    ALGERIA              LLBYA
am                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DV
BURKINA                                                                 r/&  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ~~~~  ~         UKN
F A  S                                                                                                  NIEI0-l                                                                                            1.    NIGERIA                     r-
N  1 G  E  R  1 A~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                               'CL          r'.       /          CEN-OPAL
o'  ~    ~                               .~' z      .2                )COMOOOON  OIRICANROPCRLS~z  :    - 









. .   1 .  .   .
;                                                                



