Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25669
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(PPFI-P4771; IDA-27960; TF-20882)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.0 MILLION
(US$26.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
03/31/2003
Rural Development 2
Country Department 13
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 09/06/2002)
Currency Unit = CFAF
CFAF 100 = US$ 0.15129
US$ 1.00 = CFAF 660.94
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AT            Animateur de Terroir (Land Animator)
BD            Base de Donn6es (Database)
CAP           Community Action Plan
CBNRM Plan    Community-Based Natural Resources Management Plan
CBPP          Community-Based Procurement Procedures
CEA/PGRN      Chef d'Equipe d'Arrondissement du PGRN (NRM District Team Leader)
CE            Chef d'Equipe (Task Team Leader)
CFI           Code de Financement des Investissements (Financial Investment Code)
CFA           Communaut6 Financiere Africaine (African Financial Community)
CIF           Fonds d'lnvestissement Communautaire (Community Investment Fund)
CG            Comit6 de Gestion (Management Committee)
CGRN          Cellule de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles (NRM Unit)
CGT           Conseil de Gestion des Terroirs (Local NRM Council)
CILSS         Comit6 Inter-Etats de Lutte contre la S6cheresse au Sahel
CNEDD         Conseil National de l'Environnement pour un Dbveloppement Durable
(Environmental Natonal Council for a Sustainable Development)
COFO          Commission Fonciere d'Arrondissement (District Land Tenure Committes)
COGRNA        Comit6 de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles d'Arrondissement
(District Natural Resources Management Committee)
CP-GRN        Comit6 de Pilotage du Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles
(NRMP Steering Committee)
CR            Communaut6 Rurale (Rural Community)
DRP           Diagnostic Rapide Participatif (Fast Participatory Approach)
EA            Equipe d'Arrondissement (District Team)
EAC           Equipe d'Appui Conseil du PGRN (Project Advisory Team)
EMP           Equipe Mobile Pluridisciplinaire (Multidisciplinary Mobile Team)
GAS           Groupe d'Action Sp6cifique (Specific Action Group)
GT/GRN        Groupe de Travail sur la Gestion des Ressources Naturelles (NRM Working Groups)
HCRAD         Haut Commissariat / la R6forme Administrative et a la Decentralisation
IDA           Intemational Development Agency (Association Intemationale pour le Ddveloppement)
IGNN          Institut G6ographique National du Niger (National Geographic Institute)
INRAN         Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique du Niger
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
LGS           Services Administratifs Locaux (Local Govemment Services)
MAG/EL        Ministere de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage
(Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock)
MH/E          Ministere de l'Hydraulique et de l'Environnement
(Ministry of Water and Environment)
MP            Ministere du Plan (Ministry of Planning)
NRM           Natural Resources Management



NRMDC          NRM District Committees
OLGT           Organisation Locale de Gestion des Terroirs (Local Organization of Land Management)
ONVPE          Organisation Nig6rienne des Volontaires pour la Preservation de l'Environnement
PAN/LCD/GRN    Programme d'Action National pour la Lutte contre la D6sertification et /a Gestion des
Ressources Naturelles
(Nigerien Organization of Volunteers for the Preservation of Environment)
PGRN           Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles (Natural Resources Management Project)
PGT            Plan de Gestion des Terroirs (Land Management Plan)
PNEDD          Programme National de l'Environnement pour un D6veloppement Durable (National
Environment Program for a Sustainable Development)
RAS&E          Responsable d'Arrondissement du Suivi et Evaluation du PGRN
SAOR           Sp6cialiste en Animation et Organisation Rurale de la CIIGRN
SCDR           Sous Comit6 D6veloppement Rural (Rural Development Sub Committee)
SEIAS          Enqu6te d'lmpact Socio-Economique (Socio-Economic Impact Assessment Survey
SG             Secr6taire Gdn6ral (General Secretary)
SGBD           Systeme de Gestion de Base de Donn6es
(Database Management System)
SIRN          Systeme d'lnformation sur les Ressources Naturelles
(Natural Resources Information System)
SP/CNCR       Secr6tariat Permanent du Comit6 National du Code Rural
STA           Service Technique d'Arrondissement (Technical Service District)
UTA           Unit6 Technique d'Appui (Technical Assistance Unit)
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager/Director:  Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Noel Chabeuf






NIGER
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                7
6. Sustainability                                                                    9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  12
9. Partner Comments                                                                 14
10. Additional Information                                                          15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               27
MAP (S)
IBRD 26861
IBRD 26862



Project ID: P001967                                     Project Name: NATURAL RES. MGMT
Team Leader: Noel Rene Chabeuf                          TL Unit: AFTR2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: March 31, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: NATURAL RES. MGMT                            LIC/TFNumber: PPFI-P4771;
IDA-27960; TF-20882
Country/Department: NIGER                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Other social services (74%); Central government
administration (25%); Sub-national government
administration (1%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/17/1987                            Effective: 07/05/1996        10/10/1996
Appraisal:  04/14/1994                              MTR: 03/31/1999           01/02/2000
Approval:  12/14/1995                             Closing: 03/31/2002         09/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIMINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Other Partners: Government of Norway
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager:     Antoinette M. Sayeh                      Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                       Cynthia Cook
Team Leader at ICR:  Noel Chabeuf                             Abdelkrim Oka
ICR Primary Author:  Younes Bouarfa
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Obyective.
The overarching goal of the National Natural Resources Management Program
(NNRMP) is to secure sustainable agricultural production and growth, alleviate poverty, and
improve rural livelihoods through a reversal of land and natural resources degradation which
are threatening the agricultural production basis. The specific objectives of the program's first
five-year phase (i.e. , "the Project") were:
(i) to assist selected rural communities across representative agro-ecological zones in
designing and implementing community-based land and natural resource management
(CBNRM) Plans and provide them with the necessary know-how, information, technical and
financial resources, within a proper institutional and legal framework.
(ii) to assist the Borrower in building its national capacity to promote, assist, and
coordinate diverse NRM initiatives within the framework of a long-term national program, as
well as in designing a comprehensive set of NRM policies and strategies.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Following a Mid-Term Review (MTR), it was determined that the project objectives remained
consistent with the NNRMP goals, and therefore they were not altered.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project components encompassed the following activities:
Component A: Develoo Community Based Natural Resources Management (CBNRM) Plans
1.    Provision of assistance (including the acquisition of equipment and vehicles) to about
280 communities in selected districts to design and implement CBNRM Plans.
2.    Provision of assistance (including the acquisition of equipment and vehicles) to about
100 additional communities already benefiting from NRM project assistance to carry out
additional investments, including infrastructure , training programs and studies, and to receive
specialized technical services.
Component B: CBNRM Assistance
1.    Carrying out of a natural resource assessment at the national level and establishing a
national natural resource information network as a baseline to support the activities of Part A
of the Project.
2.    Carrying out of CBNRM-related research and studies and provision of short and
medium-term technical assistance.
3.    Carrying out a program for human resources development and public awareness
building through CBNRM sensitization and training of community members, development
partners, and the Borrower's personnel.
4.    Production of aerial photographs, photo-mosaics, and land-use maps for selected
districts and detailed maps of the communities under Component A of the project.
- 2 -



Comnonent C: National NRM Policy Assistance
1.    Carrying out studies and reports, assisting in drafting policy documents and in
supplying and disseminating NRM-related information.
2.    Provision of assistance to the RDSC secretariat in organizing meetings and field trips
and in preparing and distributing reports.
3.    Establishing and operating a Land Tenure Commission in three selected districts.
3.4 Revised Components:
The MTR determined that all original components remained consistent with promoting
project objectives, and no alteration was deemed necessary. However, due to higher than
anticipated operational costs owing to Staff contracting rather than secondment, a reallocation
of Credit funds occurred at MTR. Additional funds were shifted from Category 6 ("Unallocated
funds"), and Category 2 (Goods) to the overspent Categories: Category 3 (Consultant services
and training), and Category 4 (Operating costs).
Component:                                        Cost:            Rating:
DESIGN AND IMPL. OF PARTIC. NRM PLANS             $28,700,000.00  HS
NAT. RES. MGMT. SUPP. OPERATIONS                  $ 8,000,000.00  HS
IMPLEM. AND MONITORING SUPPORT                    $ 4,500,000.00  HS
3.5 Quality at Entry:
After A first pre-appraisal mission, in 1988, of a follow-up project to the Livestock and
Second Forestry projects in Niger had concluded that these approaches were inadequate
because of being too sectoral, a joint effort by several Donors (IDA, USAID, FAO/CP, GTZ,
DANIDA, the French CFD, IFAD and UNDP/UNSO) over several years (1988-1992) assisted
the Government in developing a legal framework for land tenure security (Code rural was
approved on March 2, 1993), and for decentralization (the Decentralization Law was adopted
by the Government in October 1993). A second pre-appraisal took place in April 1994. The
new project objectives were highly supportive of the Government's development objectives
and the Bank's Niger Country Assistance Strategy, particularly as pertaining to poverty
reduction, promotion of sustainable development, and rural agricultural productivity growth.
The   participatory,  decentralized,  and  community-empowerment  approach  toward
implementation augured well for the project's ultimate success. Assistance was provided
directly to local communities to facilitate their own design and implemention of land and NRM
plans. This approach had already been endorsed by the Club du Sahel and the Inter-State
Committee to Combat Desertification in the Sahel (CILSS), and had been sucessfully piloted in
the region. Moreover, it was recognized that in order for community-level activities to be
successful, the financial, institutional, policy and legal framework for CBNRM had to be
developed at the national level. It was also recognized that extensive capacity building would
be necessary, and that the baseline capacity and willingness of the local communities to
undertake new responsibilities should not be overestimated. Although there was a delay in the
Government's promulgation of a decentralization law, this was not a significant obstacle to
project implementation. The long period between the approval of the PCD (04/1987), and
appraisal of the project (04/94), was used to carry out pilot operations (1997-1990), and
appraisal was subsequently delayed by two years of "government in transition", when no
- 3 -



major decision could be made.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Regarding the first objective, coverage of rural beneficiaries under the program
exceeded the initial target by more than two-fold. The original target goal was to cover 380
rural communities (then understood as villages or hamlets, with an average population of 700),
or a total of 270,000 people. Ultimately, the project targeted 126 rural communities (including
568 villages and hamlets) with an average population of 4,000, or a total of over 566,000
people. This represented one-third of the entire population of the five participating districts.
This outcome is related to the fact that beneficiaries could freely determine the scope of the
villages/hamlets they considered to envelop their community, perceived as a group of people
recognizing that they share many things in common, usually a land area, history, culture,
beyond ethnic and language barriers, and determined, under this project to share some of their
future. Every community developed its own CBNRM Plan and most communities effectively
implemented their CBNRM Plans under simplified Community Based Procurement procedures
introduced after the MTR (February 2000).
In terms of governance, in each participating community, a Local NRM Council, or
Conseil de Gestion du Terroir (CGT) was elected, and "Specific Action Groups" (GAS) were
established. The composition and representation on CGTs was proportional for ethnic
minorities (e.g, Fulany herders), but under-representative for women, who composed about 20
percent of committee members. At the district level, NRM District Committees (NRMDC) were
established with the purpose of reviewing and approving CBNRM plans, or Plans de Gestion
du Terroir (PGT). NRMDCs were composed of local authorities, traditional leaders,
representatives of local NGOs and community associations, as well as community delegates.
A Technical Team or Equipe d'arrondissement (EA) of five persons each was also established
in each district to train, supervise, and advise community members.
Regarding the achievement of the second objective, the project was instrumental in (a)
helping to establish an adequate institutional basis for the implementation of land tenure
policies, by financing studies and providing support to the institutions (Comite du Code Rural,
COFO); (b) strengthening capacities for environmental monitoring and mapping (through the
provision of equipment and financing of training for staff from IGNN and UTA); (c) developing a
participatory monitoring and evaluation system for NRM (through consultancies, training of
staff and provision of equipment); and (d) assisting the Borrower in the drafting,
implementation and monitoring of the Rural Development Policy Framework (which includes
NRM); the Law on National and Regional Development; the Forestry Code; the National Action
Program of the Convention to Combat Desertification; and Poverty Reduction Strategy
(PRSP), through the financing of studies and consultancies.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Design and Implementation of CBNRM plans: Every community covered by the
program prepared a medium-term (3-year) NRM plan and a complementary annual work
program and budget. EAs supported the communities to identify primary development
constraints and potentials. These plans were all approved by the NRMDC and many
investment projects have already been implemented.  Some 1,300 micro-projects were
realized to help rehabilitate natural resources and improve land management. These include
agro-pastoral and forestry income-generation activities and value-added social and economic
- 4 -



infrastructure development. A bit less than one-quarter of completed projects directly benefited
women. No projects specifically targeted youth beneficiaries. In terms of specific outputs:
o  70,000 ha of forest were either planted or rehabilitated,
o   10,900 ha of pastoral areas were restored,
o   1,100 km of livestock transhumance corridors developed,
o  320 wells and boreholes were constructed, both for human and livestock use,
o   133 cereal banks were established,
o  over 100 tree nurseries were created,
o  dozens of income generating activities and collective infrastructure (health
centers, cattle vaccination and storage facilities) were built and supported,
o  460 literacy training centers were opened to the benefit of more than 10,000
community members,
o  300 community midwives and emergency care health assistants were trained,
o  2,300 carts were distributed.
Overall, including acreages of land returned under cultivation through various
reclamation techniques ("zaY', stone contour alignments etc..), and all the improvements
above, an area of 233,775 ha (net) was covered with improved land management
interventions at the end of the project, representing 11% of the total (gross) area of the 126
Rural Communities (2.148 million ha), which itself was more than double the gross area
forecast in the project document (.9 million ha).
Project Support Operation: Under this component, about 150 national experts were
trained in CBNRM concepts and methodologies including: group dynamics and
communication; community participation; decentralization and community development. The
main beneficiaries were district EAs who in turn trained CGT and GAS members and provided
technical advice and backstopping. The technical capacity of a number of national institutions
involved in NRM activities (IGNN, INRAN, UTA/DE) was also supported, which facilitated the
following outputs: the collection and updating of national data on natural resources ( a
complete data base has been established for the project area); the development of a national
map production capacity (25 digitalized maps at the 1/200,000 scale have been produced
covering the project area together with land use maps for the zone South of the 16th parallel);
the drafting of manuals and guidelines on NRM, the development of simple, standard contract
templates adapted to local community needs and capacities; the design and implementation of
simple participatory monitoring and evaluation systems; the adaptation of procurement and
disbursement procedures to rural communities, enabling their tendering and supervision of
micro-project development. CGT and GAS members benefited from training on planning,
tendering procedures, maintenance, accounting, and participatory monitoring and evaluation.
Support to National Policy and Strategy: Assistance was provided to establish Land
Tenure Commitees (COFO) in 7 Districts: Goure, Tessaoua, Doutchi, Boboye, Say, Dosso,
and Matameye (against 3 Districts only planned at appraisal). In addition, 200 grassroots
COFOs were created at the village level. The intent was for these institutions to play a key role
in administering legal land titles in compliance with the Rural Code. Support was also provided
to the Permanent Secretariat for the Rural Code to monitor its implementation and to
supervise COFOs. Training of personnel and funding for participation in regional/international
conferences on NRM were also provided to Rural Development Sub-Committee members
(Departments involved in project implementation). Project assistance contributed to the
drafting, implementation and monitoring of the Rural Development Policy Framework (which
includes NRM); the Law on National and Regional Development; the Forestry Code; the
- 5-



National Action Program of the Convention to Combat Desertification; and the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return.
At appraisal, a financial rate of return for the project as a whole was not estimated,
because: (i) the stream of benefits accruing from its large institutional support component
would be difficult to quantify; and (ii) the demand-driven nature of the project rendered it
impossible to precisely determine ex ante the final composition of community activities and
their success rate.  However, illustrative benefits and costs from a sample of activities
estimated the NPV to be approximately CFAF 20,000 and the internal rate of return to range
from 16 percent to 35 percent.
Two socio-economic impact assessment surveys (SEIAS) were carried out: one at
MTR, and the other at project closure. According to these, the estimated social or economic
rate of return (ERR) for the entire project is 41 percent, if all expenses incurred to implement
project activities are taken into account (on the basis of a discount rate of 10 percent and a
time period of 10 years). The ERR increases to 104 percent when operational costs are
excluded from the calculations.
4 4 Financial rare of return:
On the basis of a package of 10 income-generating activities (out of the approximately
15 adopted by a large number of farmers), the NPV of the project is approximately CFAF
37,000 (ranging from CFAF 9,000 for peanut oil production up to CFAF 304,900 for
investments in nurseries). This amount can be juxtaposed against the cost of one family labor
day, which ranges from CFAF 750 to CFAF 1,000 in the project zones. It should be noted that
the activities initiated by women were among those with the lowest NPV (e.g., peanut oil
production; sheep and goat breeding).
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutions were established and operated according to plan.
* The Steering Committee for the National Natural Resource Management Program was
established and met regularly (twice a year) to supervise project implementation.
* The NRMU was strengthened and, as expected at inception, the Unit staff was not moved
or replaced before a three year-assignment.
* After the MTR, the EAs (District Teams) were reorganized to ensure more regular contact
between technicians and communities, improve communication, and strengthen technical
support.
* Five DCs (District Committees) were established and trained. The DCs were able to review
the community plans and annual investment programs within a relatively short period (not
exceeding one month), which reduced delays in micro-project implementation. The average
duration between proposal and completion was 4 months, compared to an average time for
completion of over one year prior to the introduction of these changes.
At national level, the establishment of a Natural Resource Information Network (SIRN)
had a positive impact in terms of building national capacity and managing data on NNRM: (i)
the technical and human capacity of the Niger National Geographic Institute (IGNN) was
- 6 -



considerably enhanced to the point that it was able to produce photomaps (1:50,000 and
1:200,000 scales) covering the five districts of the project and has achieved a degree of
financial autonomy with newfound capacity to respond to public and commercial requests; (ii)
the Technical Support Unit (UTA) of the Ministry of Water and Environment developed its
capacity to issue methodological manuals and guidelines for NRM database collection and
mapping ; (iii) The Niger National Institute for Agricultural Research (NNIAR) broadened its
experience in socio-ecological and socio-economic surveys through participation in the project
assessments of the Community Terroirs.
5. Major Factors Affecting Ilmplementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
It was originally expected that the Government of Denmark would provide a $ 5.0
million grant to co-finance the NRMP (representing almost 25 percent of the total IDA credit).
However, due to the political turmoil in Niger in 1997, the grant never materialized. While the
loss of additional funding limited the project's potential scope, it did not preclude the realization
of any specific activity, as the Danish grant was not earmarked for a particular component.
The Sahel suffered from a major drought in 1997 that resulted in widespread food
shortages. The drought occurred conterminously with the inauguration of project activities in
the field. Not surprisingly then, most of beneficiaries were more concerned with the short-term
need for food security, rather than better management of natural resources, which is a
longer-term need. To respond to this demand, food security was ensured in the target
communities through the establishment of cereal banks. While drought occurred again in 2001,
its impact on project activities was more limited due to the existence of the cereal banks.
Project implementation was affected by a coup d'etat and a generally unstable political
situation prior to new general elections which instated the current administration. The regime
change significantly improved the political environment and restored peace and stability. At
inception, the project ironically suffered from being well-funded but driven with an institutional
environment of minimal external and internal financial resources. This led to unrealistic
expectations from project partners, and the attendant misunderstandings from unfulfilled
expectations took several years to smooth out. These frustrations gradually disappeared when
substantial results started materializing in the field, and were recognized by beneficiaries and
the genral public.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Despite five changes of administration and general political instability, the Government
of Niger maintained a strong support for and commitment to the NNRMP throughout the
project lifetime. The Government set up a Steering Committee for the NNRMP and adopted an
implementation manual and an accounting/auditing system in a timely manner. The central
NRMU, the EAs and the UTA were staffed quickly at the requisite level. A budget crisis and the
political turmoil in the late 1990s significantly delayed the availability of government
counterpart funding, which in 1999 led to a global suspension of all IDA credit disbursements
in Niger. The project itself was specifically affected by a previous (informal) suspension of
disbursements in 1998, which lasted for two months. This was due to a misunderstanding
between the Bank and the Borrower about a particular consulting contract. The situation
progressively improved over the last three years of implementation and no further suspensions
occurred. The Ministry for Rural Development as well as other relevant Ministries (e.g., Water
and Environment; Finance) were very supportive of the project. For example, when a number
- 7 -



of government officials opposed the MTR recommendation to introduce community-based
procurement procedures (CBPP), the Minister for Rural Development wrote to all Pr6fet and
Sous-Prefets reminding them of the importance of decentralization to the Government's
agenda, and encouraged their support of community empowerment through CBPP. Although
the final amount of counterpart funds contributed by the Government was less than estimated
at appraisal, there was no gap in counterpart funding because (a) appraisal estimates were
based on the assumption that the Danish Grant would require its share of counterpart funding
and (b) the sharp increase in community investment versus operational costs after the MTR
increased the contribution from beneficiaries and reduced the need for government
counterpart funding.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A turnaround was effected in the management efficiency of the project following the
MTR. In the first implementation period (1996-99), EAs mainly performed desk work,
conducting only a few site visits and their direct contact with communities was quite limited.
Moreover, operational expenses had reached almost 70 percent of the allocated budget after
only three years of implementation. Meanwhile, community investments were falling behind
schedule, with only 14.6 percent of budget allocations disbursed in this period. A number of
positive changes occurred following the recommendations of the fourth supervision mission
(July 1999), which were confirmed at MTR. Field-level staff were extensively redeployed to
allow for more direct engagement with the targeted communities, and new rules on allowances
and per-diems were introduced to alleviate budget pressure on operational expenses (these
were eventually reduced by over 20 percent). These measures not only improved operational
efficiencies, but also had a positive impact on community participation and accelerated the
implementation of community investments, reversing the disbursement imbalance that existed
before the MTR. These gains were extended through the introduction of CBPP and the
replacement of the NRMU Coordinator.
5.4 Costs and financing:
As of March 24, 2003, 99.92 percent of the IDA Credit, and 88.44 percent of the
Norwegian Grant, have been disbursed. As previously mentioned, the Danish Grant of $5.0
million never materialized. Beneficiary contributions (in cash, in kind or labor) amounted to
approximately 20 percent of total community investments. Two fund reallocations took place
over the project lifetime. One reallocation, which was  recommended by the MTR,
compensated for the shortage of funds for Category 3 (consultancies, training, studies) and
Category 4 (operating costs). The second came in conjunction with the extension of the project
closing date by six months (the original date was March 2002). Following the adoption of
CBPP in 2000, special regional sub-accounts were established for the communities and
related bank accounts were opened in commercial banks in nearby cities. The introduction of
CBPP immediately accelerated disbursements from the Credit and dramatically increased
community investments (in 2000, community based investments doubled as compared to the
previous year).
Detailed costs and financing tables are presented in Annex 2.
- 8 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated likely. The rating is based on the elements listed below:
As noted in the recent project impact assessment (SEIAS) report, a number of
communities (e.g., Birni Nfalla, Rouda-Goumande, Lido, Kobedey etc.) have prepared CBNRM
mid-term development plans covering 2002-2004, beyond the project termination date. These
communities intend to self-finance and implement their plans even in the absence of external
support. Communities were encouraged to establish Community Investment Funds (CIF) to
recycle accumulated capital from the income-generating activities enabled through the credit
into new loans to additional community members. In September 2002, total deposits in CIFs
topped CFAF 1.2 billion, with an average amount per community of CFAF 10 million. CIFs
have become an important source of community self-financing, and in a few cases, such as
Toudou in Boboye District, 2002 CBNRM plans were financed using CIF resources at twice the
amount provided by the NRMP project. However, many communities only recently started
participating in the project (or so-called "second generation communities") and thus have not
had sufficient time to accumulate enough capital to reach the same degree of financial
autonomy as the original set of communities.
Community Management Committees, established in each of the targeted communities,
are likely to sustain the maintenance of infrastructure and micro-projects financed through the
project. These committees are collecting user fees to finance facilities maintenance. In
addition, the District Technical Services (STA) were involved in the approval of community
projects as well as in the supervision of their implementation through participation in the DCs.
Thus, STA will also be able to continue supporting beneficiaries well after project closure.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Regarding sustainability of CBNRM plans, the project effectively demonstrated that
transfer of responsibilities to rural communities can lead to rapid sustainable development
gains, provided that communities receive adequate technical, financial, and legal
capacity-building support. A number of first-generation communities appear to have reached a
degree of autonomy in terms of NRM planning and implementation. Other communities still
need some support for a few years. The Bank and the Government of Niger negociated in
early March 2003 a new Community Action Program (CAP), drawing upon lessons from the
implementation of NRMP. To minimize the risk of losing NRMP assets during the transition
period between project closure and the CAP start-up, the Government has allocated all
existing NRMP infrastructure and equipment to the CAP, and the implementation of the new
program, which is the first phase of an APL, will begin in the five Districts where the NRMP
was implemented and expand from there and two other Districts where other Donors have
financed CDD pilots.
Regarding the sustainability of national NRM policies and institutions, the institutions
strengthened under NRMP, particularly the National Geographical Institute and the UTA, are
now largely self-sustaining as a result of their improved capacity to provide services on a
commercial basis. The only partner that has failed to benefit as anticipated from the project
has been the Agricultural Research Institute. A general improvement in the capacity of national
institutions to implement NRM activities should abet their more effective execution of ongoing
duties.
-9-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory. Although guided by sucessful
small-scale pilots, the Niger NRMP was one of the World Bank's first projects in Africa to adopt
a community-based, or "gestion de terroir" approach to NRM. During identification/preparation
the Bank proactively and carefully analyzed recent field experience and the findings from the
pilots with this approach and adapted lessons into the NRMP design. The team visited a
number of ongoing NRM operations in Niger as well as other Sahelian countries and the
lessons learned from these programs were carefully analyzed and adapted to the final project
design. Exchanges of experience with other ongoing NRM projects were constantly maintained
throughout implementation and particularly at MTR. This allowed the project to remain abreast
of successful approaches to NRM operations elsewhere.The Borrower praised the efficient
support of the Resident Mission in their effective and proactive interface between HQ and the
project Secretariat and for their support during supervision missions, as well as in addressing
disbursement and technical issues.
7.2 Supervision:
The performance of the Bank is rated Satisfactory. Supervision was extensive and
thorough. In total, 10 supervision missions were conducted over the project's six-year lifetime,
in addition to missions fielded by Bank Resident Mission staff on an ad-hoc basis. Bank
supervision was also strong, particularly in capitalizing upon experience and adopting lessons
learned.The Mid-term Review took place in February/March 2000 (postponed from September
1999 on account of delays in effectiveness). Two project impact assessments occured, one in
2000 and the other in 2002. Finally, an ICR mission took place in September 2002. The main
results/outcome of each of the ten supervision missions are outlined below:
*   First: standard partnership contracts were generated and the relationships between the
implementing agency and its partners were simplified and clarified for all parties.
o   Second: recommended an increase to the special account; updated the operational
manual.
t  Third: monitoring and evaluation systems and processes were improved, including
monitoring of community investments and better data management.
o   Fourth: recommended the redeployment of project field staff; elaborated a plan to put
tighter controls on project administration/operational expenses.
o  Fifth and MTR: recommended the introduction of community-based procurement
procedures (CBPP), instrumental to the rapid expansion of community investments.
o  Sixth: improved impact of CBPP introduction on community mobilization.
o   Seventh: recommended an extension of project closing date.
o  Eighth: rationalized and supervised project finances.
O   Ninth: examined sustainability of project following closure; appraised Community
- 10-



Action Project; recommended the establishment of a small transition team.
o  Tenth: addressed pending financial issues before closure and prepared a work
program covering the transition period.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Due to the relatively innovative nature
of its design, careful attention was paid to implementation at every stage in the project . The
fifth supervision mission and MTR strongly enhanced project performance by assisting project
staff and Nigerien authorities ito initiate simplified procurement and disbursement for
community-based investments (CBPP). This shift placed communities at the center of the
tendering process for micro-projects as well as in the drivers seat of their financial and
technical management, which facilitated the achievement of project objectives and increased
beneficiary ownership and the sustainability of NRM plans.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
At preparation, Borrower performance was satisfactory. As part of Niger's development
strategy adopted in the early 1990's, the Government approved a Rural Development Strategy
Framework (RDPF) based on four main pillars: (i) NRM; (ii) Food Security; (iii) Agriculture
Intensification and Diversification and (iv) Empowerment of Rural Communities with a
redefinition of the role of the state. In this context, land degradation was regarded as the most
serious threat to the success of Niger's development strategy. The NRMP, which emerged as a
key instrument to advance the RDPF, was developed at the request of the Government of
Niger. Meanwhile, the Government promulgated a Decentralization Law in 1994, giving a
certain degree of autonomy to Districts and Municipalities, and agreed that NRMP should
transfer managerial responsibility of community assets directly to villages and terroirs.
7.5 Government implementation perfornance:
Government implementation performance can be considered satisfactory. The
Government was rarely in a position to pay its expected counterpart funding in a timely
manner, due to recurring financial difficulties in the wake of the political turmoil that erupted in
1996-97. Although less than two-thirds of the anticipated amount of counterpart funding was
eventually made available and disbursed, at the time of project closure, no financial gap
existed in the Special Accounts. This outcome stems from having a budgetary cushion as a
result of actual needs being lower than anticipated due to: (a) the introduction of CBPP at
MTR, and (b) the non-effectiveness of the Danish Grant, which reduced overall expenditures.
The Government's commitment to the project and its objectives remained consistently
high. It provided strong support to project management and was always keen to follow-up on
supervision (and MTR) recommendations. Moreover, the NRMU was given a large degree of
autonomy over project implementation, and communities were given autonomy in owning their
NRM plans. Likewise, a liberal yet beneficial degree of autonomy was granted to the NRMU in
project implementation by the two principle Ministerial Departments charged with renewable
natural resources. During the preparation of the Community Action Program (CAP), which will
gradually extend community driven development throughout Niger, the Government proposed
to consider the achievements of the NRM project together with the results of the CAP's own
pilot operations, to select the NRMP's five districts as 5 of the 7 where the CAP will start being
implemented, and to transfer to the forthcoming CAP the physical assets, and as much of its
- 11 -



human assets as will be compatible with the recruitement processes under the new project.
These proposals ensure a maximum capitalization of this project's achievements.
7.6 ImplementingAgency
The performance of the implementing agency was rated as satisfactory. Responsibility
for managing the project fell under the pre-existing NRMU whose overall activities were
supervised by a Steering Committee chaired by the SG of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock. While the NRMU performance was only marginally satisfactory during the first three
years of project implementation, it improved dramatically after MTR. During the first period,
field staff did not receive adequate guidance and supervision in order to effectively respond to
Community needs and requests despite the high rate of operating expenses disbursed (70
percent of the total amount allocated) at project mid-point. Following the enactment of MTR
recommendations, the replacement of the NRMU Coordinator, a redeployment of field staff,
and the introduction of CBPP, a notable improvement in project performance was witnessed.
Through more direct engagement with communities in the field, EAs succeeded in significantly
strengthening organizational capacity to implement CBNRM plans and related development
objectives. More than 1,000 out of 1,300 community projects developed during the project
lifetime of the project were prepared and implemented in the last three years of
implementation. It is suspected that the introduction of CBPP played a major role in this
upswing.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Government was satisfactory. The Government was
particularly committed to addressing project constraints as well as monitoring project
outcomes. As set out in the Credit agreement, the stability of project staff was properly
secured and every decision regarding project organization and staffing was taken in a
transparent manner, in close consultation with the Bank. Supervision mission
recommendations were always taken seriously and implemented with Government support.
Close collaborative monitoring of project implementation allowed the Government to quickly
extract important lessons from the NRMP experience toward community empowerment in
general, and aspects of the project's approach were integrated into the Government's new
decentralization policy.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 Community Empowerment in Rural Areas
The project demonstrated that natural resource management can be effectively
advanced in poor and remote areas through participatory, community-based principles and
approaches and without the need for mechanization or "food for work" schemes. It further
demonstrated the compatibility of CBRM planning and micro-activities within the broader
context of decentralization, strenghtening local governance, and. community-driven
development.
A number of factors listed below influenced the probability of success:
(i)   Intensive sensitization/awareness-raising activities were essential to catalyzing
collective action and the development of related communal micro-projects. Any form of
organization adopted by the group, whether formal or informal (provided that it was
endorsed by the community) was recognized; this flexibility facilitated the emergence of
a number of organizations and groups.
- 12 -



(ii)  The sustainability of the project was greatly enhanced by the overall approach
to project implementation, which augmented social capital accumulation and reinforced
community ownership of the process. In addition, the introduction of CBPP significantly
improved motivation towards project success and allowed for new capacities and
competencies to be developed within the communities. In part due to the introduction of
CBPP, specific initiatives and requests for financing increased dramatically, and
stronger community ownership regarding development plans and projects emerged,
both of which facilitated project success. However, it should be noted that the
introduction of CBPP required training and active technical backstopping.
(iii) Community co-financing and "sweat labor" did not prove to be a barrier to
project implementation. On the contrary, compared to previous schemes of "food for
work" and highly mechanized NRM projects, the shared investment, gestion du terroir
model appeared to work more effectively. At least for the five districts covered by the
project, the requested amount of beneficiary contribution did not prove to be a
constraint to community participation. The amount of beneficiary micro-project
co-funding (in cash, labor or in kind) ranged on a sliding scale based on the nature of
micro-projects (literacy and capacity building requiring lower contributions) and the
estimated return on investment (for income generating micro-projects) from 5 to 20
percent of total investment cost. Beneficiary contributions seem to have strengthened
beneficiary and community ownership of NRM and other operations.
(iv)  As mentioned above, in order to access NRMP project development funds,
CBNRM plans and projects had to first be approved by District Committees. DCs had
one month to approve or reject community submissions and their decision was final.
This quick and transparent process bolstered confidence between communities and
their partners (i.e., project staff, commercial operators, entrepreneurs). The lesson here
is that approval of community projects must be made at the level closest to the
beneficiaries (here, the district level) in order to reduce delays and bureaucracy and
increase accountability and transparency.
(v)   The initial introduction of CBPP after the Mid-term Review met with some
resistance and procrastination on the part of government officials at various levels and
customary leaders. Although these obstacles were overcome through vigorous
intervention by the Ministerial authorities, they should not be underestimated.
Entrenched constituencies may jeopardize such initiatives and full Government support
is and absolute requisite for such a project to succeed.
8.2 Diversity of rural communities needs
The needs and priorities of rural populations were found to be highly diverse. In
general, communities expressed a willingness to contribute to a wide range of activities
including land rehabilitation and improved NR productivity, social and economic infrastructure,
agricultural intensification and diversification, and income-generating activities. Thus, the
flexible NRMP approach to project eligibility criteria was well matched to the diversity of
community demands.
- 13 -



8.3 Important features for NRM improvement
The project demonstrated that: (i) community ownership of NRM development plans
and projects depends on building a sound knowledge among community members of land and
resources through simple diagnostic analyses; (ii) a combination of capacity building and the
implementation of a wide range of development activities is important to ensure the
sustainability of NRM activities; (iii) the distribution of donkey carts as positive incentives to
youth workers demonstrated the need to directly and specially target women and youth in
micro-development activities in order to enhance probability of success and sustainability; (iv)
decentralized NRM activities need to be complemented by national policy reforms (in particular
on land tenure) and institutional development components.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's own implementation completion report, attached to this report,
concludes: " While NRMP experienced a difficult start, it eventually ended to the satisfaction of
all stakeholders. The effective implementation of a participatory approach and the simplicity of
the tools and procedures used helped to achieve positive results in the management of natural
resources as well as in poverty reduction among the beneficiary populations. NRMP allowed
the establishment within the project area, of community development dynamics which should
be supported and consolidated. Hope lies with the forthcoming CAP project. NRMP allowed
the NRM Unit to capitalize on important methodological achievements regarding NRM and
community development. Other institutions such as IGNN and UTA/DE also developed
capacity to produce base and thematic maps complying with international quality standards".
(b) Cofinanciers:
The following comments have been received from the Government of Norway:
"The ICR is a thourough and balanced document that gives a very good impression of the
project. Methodology behind the project as well as the various stages of implementation are
well presented, and together they constitute a very interesting piece of information to us.
The outcome of the project appears very satisfactory, and the fact that the political and social
context has been highly unstable during the late 1990s makes the project's success even more
impressive.
Sustainability seems well taken care of, and the central objective of national capacity building
is systematically carried out. Norway greatly appreciates the CDD approach, and takes note of
the fact that the report takes the varying needs and preferences of the different local
communities into consideration.
The project also appears to be financially sound, but the difficulties of assessing a financial
rate of return for the whole project are of course obvious."
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No formal comment has been sought from ONVPE, the local NGO contracted as the
District Team (EA) for the Boboye District. This experiment proved to be disappointing due to
disputes over the conditions of contract, and their lack of adherence to the status of an NGO.
The outcome was a questionable cost/benefit ratio in comparison with other District Teams and
uncertainties about the future of the NGO itself.
- 14 -



10. Additional Information
Shortcomings in commercial banking network: The network of commercial banking
institutions in Niger is limited to the capital and major towns (Maradi, Zinder). This hindered the
financial management of the project, the implementation of the community-based investments,
and the establishment of CIF accounts. The first obstacle was overcome by opening up "30
day advance accounts," as recommended by the Bank's Disbursement Services. Even EAs in
the most remote areas (Gourd) were able to make 14 withdrawals in FY 2001, but limited
banking branches remained a problem for community financial management. In an attempt to
overcome this obstacle, the NRMU initiated a consultation process to assess the possibility of
contracting existing micro-credit institutions (based on the successful model of the Benin
Borgou Pilot) as intermediaries between commercial banks and beneficiary communities. Due
to the relative immaturity of such institutions in Niger, however, this shift did not occur;
however, the number and diversity of micro-finance initiatives are growing and the
consultations are still ongoing.
Small local enterprise development: The introduction of CBPP afforded a unique
opportunity to depart from the common practice of relying upon cumbersome government
procurement procedures and large businesses and contractors based in the capital. As
mentioned, project support enabled 1300 community projects. One of the most important
criteria used by the communities in the selection of contractors was the shortlisted candidates'
local experience. In most cases, this led to the selection of local enterprises, often from the
informal sector, better known by community members and with whom negotiations were easier.
As in other community development programs (e.g., PAMR in Benin), this process
strengthened local enterprise and had a positive impact on the local economy. It also built the
negotiating and tendering capacities of communities and in many cases revealed hitherto
unknown capabilities within largely illiterate communities.
Decentralization: Due to political turmoil during the first four years of project
implementation, the implementation of the Decentralization Law enacted in 1994 was delayed
until the last quarter of 2002. Close contact between the project staff and the High Commission
for Decentralization, and their cooperation in supervision helped to capitalize on  project
experience in effective transfer of responsibilities and resources to local communities.
Land reclamation technologies: Implementation of the project's NRM component was
based on voluntary and labor-intensive work by beneficiary communities for land reclamation
and reforestation. This approach was innovative in Niger, as previous operations were based
either on "food for work" or mechanized techniques. The results achieved seemed to indicate
that the project approach worked better by strengthening commitment and ownership by
beneficiaries, and encouraging sustainability and self-financing. But the hardships of work, the
sparseness of the population, and the ecological constraints would in many cases justify a
combination of different approaches, including mechanization.
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome l Impact Indicators:
. ,      IndicatoriMatr           |o   *                        .              - A-ctuali atest Estimate
1. Number of Fully Operational NRM Plans  126 for as many Rural Communities  126 (a) for as many Rural Communities
1997  38  1998 47                                                         grouping together 568 villages and hamlets
1999  (200) 2000 (300)                                                    for a total beneficiary population of 566,000
Total ( 380) for as many villages and                                     inhabitants double the onginal estimates.
hamlets with a total populaton of 270.000
inhabitants.
2. Beneficiary Contnbubons (million CFAF  1.282 Mo CFAF                    1,282 million CFAF equivalent in September
equivalent)                                                                2002 This amount is more than double the
1997 -  1998 80 .                                                         revised estimate adopted at the MTR.
1999 (1900) 2000 (2600)
Total (3100) revised at MTR at 550 million
CFAF
3 Area (Gross) covered with Improved Land .07 Mo ha (net)                  234 million ha net corresponding to 11 % of a
Mgt Interventions in million ha                                            gross area of 2,148,775 covered by the NRM
1997 0.05  1998 0 05                                                       Plans under implementation in September
1999 (0 3)  2000 (0.6)                                                     2002 (b), double the gross area initially
Total (0 9)                                                               targeted
4 Number of District Land Tenure     7                                     7 plus approximately 200 local (village level)
Committees established under the project                                   Land Tenure committees (c)
1997 -     1998 1
1999 (2)  2000 (3)
Total (3)
5 Number of NRM-reiated Legal Instruments 4                                4 (d)
Inibated/Officialized with Project Support,
1997 1     1998 2
2000 (4)   2000 (5)
Total (5)
(a) Program coverage of rural beneficianes exceeded initial projections by more than two-fold The original target goal was to
cover 380 rural communites (in fact, villages and hamlets), with an average population of 700, or a total of 270,000 people.
Ultimately, the project reached 126 rural communites (including 568 villages and hamlets) with an average population of 4,000,
or a total of over 566,000 people,
(b) The final figures (233,775 ha) have been estimated by Project management from M&E data. The total area of the 126 Rural
Communites is 2,148,200 ha. Improvements brought under the project have covered 11% of the geographical area of the target
communities, probably close to half the acreage of land which could be improved or reclaimed
(c) The political situation delayed the establishment of local land tenure comrnittees (COFO), however, 200 local and 7 District COFOs
were established under the project and started delivering legal tites, no information is available about the total acreage covered by
the permits delivered so far and the number of permits
(d) Rural Development Policy Framework (which includes NRM), Law on National and Regional Development, Forestry Code,
Nabonal Action Program of the Convention to Combat Desertification, Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
- 16 -



Output Indicators:
....  Ind.itprlatrx                                                          Ac .  aprojeed in.  -  ActuaiiLatest Eatimati
Support to CBNRM plans               All communities (126) developed and  All communities (126) developed and
implemented CBNRM plans: 1,300       implemented CBNRM plans: 1,300
micro-projects achieved; 70,000 ha   micro-projects achieved; 70,000 ha
reforested, 10,900 ha pastoral areas  reforested, 10,900 ha pastoral areas
upgraded; 1,100 Km of livestock      upgraded; 1,100 Km of livestock
transhumance corridors materialized; 320  transhumance corridors materialized, 320
wells and boreholes drilled, 133 cereal banks wells and boreholes drilled; 133 cereal banks
established, 100 tree nurseries established;  established, 100 tree nurseries established,
2,300 ox or donkey carts distnibuted; 460  2,300 ox or donkey carts distributed; 460
literacy centers established benefiting  lieracy centers established benefiting
10,000 people and 300 matrons trained.  10,000 people and 300 matrons trained.
Support operatons                    150 national experts trained in CBNRM  150 national experts trained in CBNRM
approach, natonal institutions (IGNN,  approach, national institutions (IGNN,
INRAN, UTAIDE) strengthened; digital basic INRAN, UTAIDE) strengthened, digital basic
and thematic maps produced, manuals and  and thematc maps produced, manuals and
guidelines issued for participatory monitoring guidelines issued for participatory monitoring
and evaluation                       and evaluation
Support to national policy and strategy  200 local and 7 District Land tenure  200 local and 7 District Land tenure
Committees established; 3 legal measures  Committees established, 3 legal measures
enacted (Law on national and regional  enacted (Law on national and regional
development; Forestry Code; Rural    development Forestry Code; Rural
Development Policy Framework         Development Policy Framework
End of project
Due to the demand-driven and participatory nature of the project, no projections were
provided in the SAR, and the only available are thpse
at the end of implementation.
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs'and Financing
Project Cost by Cornponent (in US$ million equivalent)
r              I;-1',, *; ' .:.          Ap,raisal  A      t-      P','ttPerf
-           .         ~~       ~     ~~EstIrrI ate. - - K - EtMat  ' 7~ .A ia
A. Implementation of CBNRM Plans                26.73         15.34         57.38
B. CBNRM Assistance (inluding M&E and Project   11.64         11.86          102
management)
C. Support to Nat. policies & strategies         0.23          0.23          100
Total Baseline Cost                             38.60         27.43
Physical Contingencies                          0.87
Price Contingencies                             1.72
Total Project Costs          41.19         27.43
Total Financing Required          41.19         27.43
Since the allocation of funds in the SAR doesn't correspond to the categories of
expenditure in Annex lto the DCA and data from the tables in the monthly disbursement
reports, Cat 1 (Civil Works) and 2 (Goods) from the IDA Credit and Norwegian Grant, have
been added to the beneficiary contributions (1,282 million CFAF equal to 1.94 million USD) to
provide the estimate of final actual expenses on the implementation of NRM plans. Cat 3
(Consultant services), Cat 4 (Operating costs), with the addition of the Government's
counterpart funding have been allocated to sub components B, and C in the same proportions
as at appraisal because the available data don't allow a more detailed break down of
expenses. Since the US $5 million Danish Grant never materialized, total project costs at
appraisal should be reduced to US$ 36.19. million. It should also be noted that the
Government contributed 684 million CFAF in counterpart funding and beneficiaries contributed
1,282 million CFAF, (a total of US $2.974 million).
-18 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
-     i  -.|r   ;        ;-. -  .   ,i -  .*.             L  ; ]   -       .  .-
' .ExpendCitreCateo y .'                                                Sher  . F  -ToWal.Cos.
1. Works                      0.00          2.00         3.00          0.00         5.00
(0.00)        (1.80)       (2.70)        (0.00)       (4.50)
2. Goods                      0.00          2.40         8.40          0.00         10.80
(0.00)        (1.80)       (5.70)        (0.00)       (7.50)
3. Services                   0.00          1.20         0.00          0.00         1.20
(0.00)        (0.50)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.50)
4. Miscellaneous              1.70          2.40          1.60         0.00         5.70
vehicles and equipment       (1.70)        (1.40)        (0.80)       (0.00)       (3.90)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         7.40          0.00         7.40
Consultants & studies        (0.00)        (0.00)        (6.20)       (0.00)       (6.20)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          1.10         0.00         1.10
Training                     (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.70)       (0.00)        (0.70)
Total                       1.70         8.00         21.50         0.00         31.20
(1.70)        (5.50)       (16.10)       (0.00)       (23.30)
Note: from SAR
Project Costs by Procurem  nt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
;i7   -~5s'I            - .-,
.-xpendie Categoy         ,olal COV
1. Works                      0.00         10.68         0.00         0.00         10.68
(0.00)       (1.22)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (1.22)
2. Goods                      1.79          0.00         0.00          0.10         1.90
(1.88)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.10)       (1.99)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         0.80         0.00         0.80
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.46)       (0.00)       (0.46)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
vehicles and equipment       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
Consultants & studies        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
Training                     (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                       1.79         10.68         0.80         0.10         13.38
(1.88)       (1.22)        (0.46)       (0.10)       (3.67)
Figures exclude amounts procured through Community Based procurement Procedures, which represent the
bulk of procurement for works, goods and services under this project, not subject to reporting in SAP
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 19-



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
~~~~~~~~L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~retg 1.    por  ai
praIlEsrimawfI 1    - r.    ;:ActuaL,LatestEQimate ______  ' '" ' ''__|
'GbkL, .. COF. 'I%1*        . Go.  - CoF.   IDA   Gooi.- CoF..
A. Implementation of  14.70     6.20    5.91     12.48    1.94     0.83    84.9  31.3  14.0
NRM plans
B. Support operations  7.85    .1.01    2.74     11.98    1.03     1.07   152.6  102.0  39,1
C. Support to national  0.1   0.02     0.05     0.23     0.01     0.03   153.3  50.0  60 0
poUcies and strategies
D. Refunding of PPF    1.50                      0.99                      66.0
E. Unallocated         2.50                      0.73                      29.2
Data from the SAR do not provide a breakdown of costs for all components by source of
financing. They provide a breakdown by Category of expenses for the IDA Credit funds, and a
financing plan indicating the overall contributions expected from Donors, Borrower and
beneficiaries. The figures above have been calculated from the same data and on the same
basis as in tables above in this section with the exception that it is the expected Beneficiary
contributions and not Government counterpart funding which appear under Government in the
appraisal and actual figures for A (Implementation of NRM Plans). The absence of the Danish
Grant affects significantly the percentage of appraisal for co-financing.
-20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project, as calculated in the second
socio-economic impact survey report is 41 percent, or 104 percent if technical and
administrative costs are not taken into account. The comparison between figures at MTR and
at project closure illustrate the results of the huge effort made during the last two-and-a-half
years to reduce operational costs, increase the number of beneficiary communities, and
augment the amount of community based investments.
The following tables, extracted from the second socio-economic impact survey report
give an indication of the distribution of project benefits among the various categories of
activities supported by the Credit.
Table I. Technical and Financial Development at MTR and at Project Closing
1996-1999           2000-2001               Total
Axis                   Expenses Percentage  Expenses  Percentage  Expenses  Percentage
Natural Resources         206       13       1,353       38       1,559       30
Protection
Natural Resources         86         5       1,288       36       1,374       26
Development
Income-generating         847       52        397        11       1,244       24
Production
Equipment and             369       23        200        6          569       11
Infrastructures
Social Development and    128       8         366        10        494        9
Training
Total                   1,636     ___3,604_ 5,240
Sources . Mid-Term Review, Tab XIV; S Manikowski and M Assadeck ( PGRN Social, Environmental and Economic Report, Tab I)
Expenses are in Millions CFA Franc
Table H. Economic Performance at MWTR and at Project Closing of the component:
<Preparation and Implementation of the PGT>>
Mid-Term               Project Closing
Axis                 VAN      TRE      N/K     VAN     TRE      N/K
Natural Resources Protection          503    66%       6     10,633   158%      18
Natural Resources Development         215    128%      7      3,441   127%      7
Income-generating Production         1,185   57%       4      3,753   185%      12
Equipment and Infrastructures         418
Social Development and Training       128
Total                                1,503   35%       2     16,985   104%      6
Sources- Mid-Term Review, Tab XIV, S. Manikowski and M. Assadeck ( PGRN Social, Environmental and Economic Report, Tab 11)
Expenses are in Millions CFA Franc
-21 -



Table HI. Economic Performance at Mid-Term and at Project Closing of the component:
<(Preparation and Implementation of the PGT>> based on the structure
M Mid-Term               Pr ject ClosinR
NDV       ERR    NBR/IC    NDV      ERR      NBR/IC
Operational Field Expenses (OFE)           1, 521_   35%       2      16,958   104%      6
OFE + Extension Expenses (EE)                493     15%       1,3    15,374   68%       5
OFE+EE+DistrictTearnExpenses (DTE)        (2,021)    (1%)      0,6    12,464    4%       3
Sources Mid-Term Review, Tab XVII; S. Manmkowski and M Assadeck ( PGRN Social, Environmental and Economic Report, Tab III)
Expenses and Net Descounted Value (NDV) are in Millions CFA Franc
Table IV. Financial Benefit of frequent Activities at Mid Term and at Project Closing
.__________     Mid Term                               Project Closi g
Activity     Number of Benefit/year   Benefit/year    Number of   Benefit/year   Benefit/year
beneficiaries            /family member   beneficiaries            /family member
Para            154         26,7          3,2            414          55,7           6,8
Veterian
Auxiliaries             .
Cattle          786         25,6          2,5            2,263        52,7           6,4
Fattening  I
Sheep          2,999        3,8           0,4           6,309         12,5           1,5
Fattening
Livestock        135       (38,2)                        3,212        27,2           3,3
Breeding
Ox              335        230,8          13,1           2,286        41,5           5,1
&Donkey
Carts
Distribution
Peanut Oil     2,394         2,7          0,4            2,936         9,0           1,1
Production
Private          107       136,6           14             178        304,9          37,2
Tree
Nurseries
Sources: Mid-Term Review, Tab XII, S. Manikowski and M. Assadeck ( PGRN Social, Environmental and Economic Report, Tab IV & V)
Benefits in Millions CFA Franc
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions-
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count          Specialty                   Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
04/17/1987              N.A
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/28/1994              NA
Supervision
10/15/1996                 1  NRM SR. SPECIALIST (1)           S           HS
03/15/1997                 2  NRM SR. SPECIALIST (1);          S           S
COUNSEL (1)
12/13/1997                5   MONITORING/EVALUATION            S           S
(1); FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT (1);
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
(1); AGRICULT. SERVICES
(1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
11/25/1998                4   AGR. SVCS. SPECIALIST (1);       S           S
CONSULTANT (2); PROGRAM
OFFICER (1)
02/20/2000                 4  TTL (1); AGRICULTURE             S            S
SPECIALIST (1);
IMPLEMENTATION SP. (1);
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
08/21/2000                 2  TTL (1); AGRICULTURE (1)         S            S
02/05/2001                 2   TTL (1), AGRICULTURE (1)       HS           HS
02/05/2001                 2   TTL (1); AGRICULTURE           HS           HS
SPECIALIST (1)
05/03/2002                 2  TTL (I); AGRICULTURE            HS           HS
SPECIALIST (1)
ICR
10/10/2002                3    ECONOMIST (1), TTL (1),
EDITOR (1)
- 23 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  1              Actual/Latest Estimate
._______ ________ ______ _  No. Staff weeks   US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation            225.5                   423,900
Appraisal/Negotiation                  69.3                   200,800
Supervision                          197.23                   478,400
ICR                                    9.22                    43,200
Total                                501.25                  1,146,300
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Componments
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Eli Macro poiicies                     O H   O SU O M   O N  O NA
D Sector Policies                      O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
OI Physical                            O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
El Financial                           OH    OSUOM      ON   ONA
LI Institutional Development           O H   O SU O M   O N  0 NA
L EnvLronmental                        O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction              OH    OSUOM      ON   O NA
L Gender                         OH OSUOM ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)         O H   OSUOM     O N   O NA
LI Private sector development          0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
L Public sector management             0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
OI Other (Please specify)              O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=-Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
El Lending                                          OHSOS        OU    OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS       OLU   OHU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       0 U   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
L Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       O U   O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- 10 Supervision reports
- Internal MTR report
- Mid term Review report (February 2000)
- Mid term socio-economic impact assessment survey report (Manikowski & al, February 2000)
- Final socio-economic impact assessment survey report (Manikowski & al, March 2002)
- Internal final evaluation report
- Borrower's ICR (September 2002)
- ICR mission Aide-Memoire
- 27 -



MAP SECTION






BERD 26861
NATIONAL NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM                                                                       --.-                                      LIBYA
PROGRAMME NATIONAL DE GESTION DES RESSOURCES NATURELLES                                  -s       i\-
LAND USE SYSTEMS AND PROJECT MAIN SITES                                                                      ------
SYSTEMES AGRAIRES ET ZONES D'INTERVENrION                                                                                                            -'
PROJECT SITES                                                                                                              T                  PAVED ROADS
ZONES DU PROJET                                                             < '   F.,                                                         ROUTES PERMANENTE5
%  ~~~~~~~~~~~.                          I ~~~~~~~~~~~~EARTH ROADS
PASTORAL SYSTEM                                                                                                                               ROUTES EN TERRE
5Y EM PASTORAL (D'HIVERAGE ET PERMANENT)  ~-                   -I                          "     ~RIVERS
~ RIVERVALLEY SYSTEM                                                                                                                                PLEUVES
SYSTEME DE LA VALLEE DU FLEUVE                              -         ,                           r  Cb,I                                0    SELECTED TOWNS
m  DALLOL SYSTEM                                          *,_ro____-t-_x_rs                                                                   VIt v c ''  x  i   WLLES SELECTIONNEES
DAL SYSTEME D                                                                                                                                 DISTRICT CAPITALS
SYSTEME DES DALLOLS                                                                     ICHEF-LIEU DARRONDLSSEMENT
ADER-DOUTCHI-MAGGIO-TARBA SYSTEM                                                                                                              DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
-_I SYSTEME ADER-DOUTCHI-MAGGtO-TAR8A                                                                                                               CHEF-LIEU DE DEPARTEMENT
20' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.I                                                             ElMd ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
20         '*Sik { GOULBI SYSTEM                                                                                           G I l M A                           CAPITALE NATIONALE
- - SYSTEME DESGDOULBIS                           S                  A R L I-T !/ -------- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
EASTERN PLAINS SYSTEM                       / L                                                                                               LIMITE DARRONDISSEMENT
SYSTEME DES PLA1NES DE L EST               .DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
DUNE- SYSTEM        _       -      ~ 5        /1 4A  G  Al D E Z                 i                      LIMITEDEDEPARTEMENT
DUN( SYSTEM                        ..       ,ITRAINLBUDRE
SYSTEME DUNAIRE                                                                                                                              IN T R NATIONu  BUNDARIES
m      HIGH PLAIN5 SYSTEM          L
SYSTEME DES PLATEAUX         ---/,                   61 
m  MAINE-SCROA BASIN SYSTEM     /           '1                                                                                    j         CHAD
SYSTEME DES CURVETTES DE MAINE-SOROA {L v _
j i  =->  S                      ,    o'          _ _ _ _ _ _ _|                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C H A D
\ , ,( .. s t_,;n~A'                           ,,T C H  TS~G  H  7 E R)i N E
F  A   S  O                                              N   I G   E  R  I A                                 ,       -  n   G H 8lt  (     --o  /   )--CENTRAL~~~--- --- --- --- --- --- --- - J
JL  B1      EI                                             Z    I N  E
M AL I                 ~~~~~~TCHIN-  ,Ac,e
M  A   L I       V"-  ,~-  I __         K>)  -- l         -RILOMETERS 10                                                                              20
TABARADENE         .I,                                                                                         SD   55  RSO
~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~DIFFA
TAHOUAj
/1                                                                     /                 TR~~~~~~~~~~ bo,,,,do,,o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, coIo~~~~~~~~~, do,,cn,no~~~~~~~~~Th   b,o-,....
N   D   E   R                                                 -~~~~~~~~~~/Solgo  MS  Py Io"oro,Y,
oty 1o   1 ccpS/no-of
F,'i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ooIG 0 Ui R                                                                      -h .. .,             15.
mt,          k~~~~~~.         .IE                     ooh    oo.     M         RI                      MR,
Dor  AIN-SOROA' 
~~~~~~~- Ir ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGER                                                                               /
ATAMEY  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~    ~   ~   ~  ~                     T Mo,y     *CHAD 
>            N~(1-IGERI A/
N I G E R I A  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~,.~./CENTRAL






NIGER                 ,,     00'                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 26862
NATIONAL NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM                                                                                                                        -               LIBYA
PROGRAMME NATIONAL DE GESTION DES RESSOURCES NATURELLES                                               '                                            "N
POPULATION DISTRIBUTION                                               >' "         ..-'
REPARTITION DE LA POPULATION                                                     ' -;                                  -- 
PAVED ROADS          -c 5-  - ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS (C-CROP GROWING SEASON IN DAYSI )., I                                     ----.-5 
ROUTES PERMANENTES     C-40   )OGHYETES EN MM IC=DUREE DE LA PERIODE DE CROISSANCE EN JOURSI )   F
EARTH ROADS                   POPULATION DENSITY (tNHABITANT-S/krn')             <- -0'                                                                            POPULATiON DENSITY:
ROUTES EN TERRE               DENSITE DE POPULATION, 1979 (HABJTANTS/k.s)                                                                               L                              A
-~,RIVERS                                                                        ""   7NI,N
FLEUVES                                 XS                                                                                     IAAR
SELECIED TOWNS                          0   1 I 0X\                                                                                                                         AGADEZ
VILIES SELECTIONNEES          ho-1                                                                                                                                          AGADEZ 0 65
DISTRICT CAPITALS             P7'7                                       -'I                                                                                                RLMA 0 03
CHEF-LIEU D'ARRONDISSEMENT     -2%      5 - T O 
3   DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                 .,                                                                                                      DIFFA
CHEF-LIEU DE DEPARTEMENT                20 1 30 0-
NATIONAL CAPITAL-'0..5
-20  *    ~~~~CAPITALE NATIONALE  ~                 0                    /                                                                      4Aj203 -
-------- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                    A3R/LRIT                                                                                  ZINDER
LIMtTE DARRONDISSEMENT                   MO *'-,,.                                                                                                                          MATAMEY 570
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                   .   T/     F/    /      -/   7 ,                                                                                    MIRIA 590
LIMITE DE DEPARTEMENT                            ,A                                                    G   A, D LJ                                                          TANO T 40
- --     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                     ,GOUR 
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES        _                     X *     2                                            I                  ,,0,Ao..
_ -.                     rI..,,,,                                    I                                                I3~ Arlt 42  -  BJmr  MARADI
TO  100  ITO  200  I-                              ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ''.,,               I ~~~~~A,fMADAROUNPA 39 8
0           50  100  150  200                                                                '                                                                          GUIDAN-ROUMJI 301
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                              3 MAVA-l 26
j cz_t  u  N _                                  J     oFadl,                                    I              D     107
-                                                       - --------------------             T
LEE                        "AZ-- I                    -                             I               R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AROUAI
I  ,'                           I              6067.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUA39 6
j_,TCH  OHOZERENE                       Is   -.'t? 6400 MADAOUA 32 7
,,,,sT-  -P.                                      I                                                             mr tr      , BIRNINN KONNI 276
KLETA 24
' 200NC                                       G H T   Z  RIs Nenne   E                                                                        L L A 292
MALI           I4              J/ rcd I-csb                                                                                                                         TCRLN-TABAR  ITC
LI'            7-      VI ,,                                                                i                                                    DOSSO
,'                                J                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOBO E 31 
Iij  J*                                                                                                                              D <  _ 4_  -   2  GATA 27A0
7ao  .I.  - I m-H Ci tJ r |  - - ,  / /  ~   ~  D I F FA   ./             D8550 3 SLOGA
/<       r B H  J '       1                                                                   . /  _1A                _OO _o I a
/ /                 ~~~~~NIAMEY
            -  -  -     C-45                       StLI   171R
.,-        r"                            :    '1                   7      ,-:        -                                                              PIENDU hN  ER  I  I  G  IGMG MERA 1  E 2
--                        I.  I    ,r.L.                                                                   '.                                          /        CH   D         E         .......................................................j, HD OALLO.62
I          d                                                                     .         -                           4                                          SAY 00              ISF
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H                                                                                        FKNA D=n_0GeI 
N            -. -
MALI
,L NIGER     /
/BURKINA\          ~          CA
B UJ R K I N'                                                                                                                 hM,d,,I,                                        .
PASO  I                                                                        Ih,,01A,,,,,,,pIy ,,.I6,p,,,,f             )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~~~II  NIGERIA ,~~~~f tGRI
iL It.                             TMoI9,,0 I~I6"'                             DAI     ~    ~    -         CENTRAL
J 6  ~~~~~~              - ~~AFRICAN REPUBOC
/  BE  I INI)Icop4'o



