Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2796 NIR
                          Development Credit Agreement
                     (Natural Resources Management Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                                    and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated April 5, 1996
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2796 NIR
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated April 5, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER
(the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
"Association").
       WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
       (B)   the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of Norway
("Norway") a grant (the "Norwegian Grant") in an amount
equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand dollars
($3,700,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the "Norwegian Grant
Agreement") to be entered into between the Borrower and Norway;
       (C)   the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of
Denmark (Denmark) a grant (the "Danish Grant") in an amount
equivalent to five million dollars  ($5,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (the "Danish Grant Agreement") to be entered into
between the Borrower and Denmark; and
       (D)   the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
       (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
       (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
             "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
       otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (i) on
       account of expenditures in the territories of any country
       which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced
       in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (ii)
       for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or
       for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
       knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the
       United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
       the Charter of the United Nations."
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
       (a)   "CBNRM Plan" means a community based natural resource
management plan, a comprehensive plan to be designed and
implemented by a Community  (as hereinafter defined) for the
sustainable development of its natural resources and for the
carrying out of socio-economic investments;
       (b)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
       (c)   "CNRM" means any council for natural resource
management to be established pursuant to paragraph 6 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
       (d)   "Community" means a group of persons sharing, on
agreed terms, the land on which they live either permanently or
seasonally and the natural resources thereof, and carrying out
agricultural and/or livestock production or other natural
resource management activities;
       (e)   "District" means any of the Borrower's
arrondissements established by the Borrower's law No. 94-028 of
October 21, 1994;
       (f)   "District Technical Committee" means any of the
Borrower's technical committees established by the Borrower at
the District level;
       (g)   "Implementation Manual" means the manual referred to
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
       (h)   "Initial Deposit" means the deposit referred to in
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
       (i)   "MAL" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock;
       (j)   "MWE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water and
Environment;
Page  3
       (k)   "NRM" means Natural Resource Management as defined in
the "Guidelines for a Rural Development Policy in Niger",
enacted by the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 92-030 of July 8, 1992;
       (l)   "NRMDT" means any of the district teams to be
established pursuant  to paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
       (m)   "NRMDC" means each of the district committees to be
established pursuant to paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
       (n)   "NRMSC" means the steering committee referred to in
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
       (o)   "NRMU" means Natural Resource Management Unit, the
inter-ministerial unit established by the Borrower's Arrete No.
42 MAG/EL/MH/E of April 17, 1992;
       (p)   "ONVPE" means Organisation nigerienne de volontaires
pour la preservation de l'environnement, a non-governmental
organization established under the laws of the Borrower;
       (q)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.03(a) of this Agreement;
       (r)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to the letters dated February 3, 1988 and August 14,
1995;
       (s)   "RDSC" means Rural Development Sub-Committee, the
Borrower's inter-ministerial committee established by the
Borrower's Arrete No. 033 of April 17, 1992;
       (t)   "Selected Districts" means the territory, within the
boundaries existing at the date of this Agreement, of the
Borrower's districts of Boboye, Dogondoutchi, Goure, Say and
Tessaoua;
       (u)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
       (v)   "UTA" means the Technical Support Unit established
within MWE by the Borrower's Arrete No. 64 MH/E/DAAF of
September 3, 1992.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
       Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to eighteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,000,000).
       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
       (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account (the
"Special Account") in a commercial bank acceptable to the
Association, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
Page  4
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
       (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
       Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
       (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual
Date") to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled;
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the Accrual Date or at such other rates as may be set
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from
the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
       (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
       Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
       Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
       Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1
commencing May 1, 2006 and ending November 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
November 1, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
       (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 Dollars for five consecutive
years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
Page  5
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
       (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
       Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out the Project
through MAL and under the overall responsibility of NRMU with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, administrative, management and environmental
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
       (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.03. For the purpose of Annex 1 to this
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) open and maintain, until the
completion of the Project, an account (the "Project Account")
in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association; (b) deposit
into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to
$400,000 (the "Initial Deposit"); (c) thereafter, at annual
intervals following the Initial Deposit, replenish the Project
Account by an amount equivalent to $175,000 or any other amount
required for further implementation of the Project, as agreed
between the Borrower and the Association; and (d) ensure that
the amounts deposited into the Project Account are utilized
exclusively for the Borrower's counterpart expenditures under
the Project.
       Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain policies and
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof.
       (b) The Borrower shall ensure that NRMU, NRMSC, the
District authorities and Community representatives shall, from
time to time and in any case not later than December 31 each
year, meet with the Association to review the progress achieved
in carrying out the Project.  Any institution participating in
the financing of the Project shall also be invited to
participate in such meetings.
Page  6
       (c) Once a year prior to any such meeting as specified in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and in any case not later than
October 31 of each year, the Borrower shall submit to the
Association for its review and comments an annual work program,
inclusive of an indicative list of the investments to be
financed under Part A of the Project during the following
calendar year.
       (d) Promptly after any meeting as specified in paragraph
(b) of this Section, the Borrower shall make such revisions to
such annual work program and to the list of investments under
Part A of the Project as may be appropriate, having due regard
to the comments emanating from such meeting.
       (e) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall thereafter carry out Part A of the Project in
the year in question on the basis of such work program, as so
revised.
       Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall conduct, not later
than March 31, 1999, jointly with the Association, and based on
performance indicators acceptable to the Association, a mid-
term Project implementation review: (i) to monitor progress in
the carrying out of the Project; (ii) to monitor performance of
the Borrower's national, District and Community level
implementation authorities; (iii) to monitor the effectiveness
of the criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual in
relation to Part A of the Project; and (iv) to exchange
information among staff responsible for Project implementation,
to devise solutions to current issues and to ensure the
continuation of the Project.
       (b)   Not later than six weeks prior to the review under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association for its review and comments a report in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including:
(i) an evaluation of progress achieved in Project
implementation; and (ii) a draft action program for the future
operation of the Project.
       (c)   Promptly after completion of the review under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the
recommendations arising out of the said review as agreed by the
Borrower and the Association, or such other actions as shall be
necessary as a result of the review referred to above, to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof.
       Section 3.06. For the purpose of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower
shall:
       (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
and
       (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  7
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
             (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
       (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
             (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives
                   to examine such records; and
             (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Association
       Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified:
             (i)   subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this
                   paragraph, the right of the Borrower to
                   withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the
                   Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                   have been suspended, canceled or terminated in
                   whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
                   thereof; and
             (ii)  sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
Page  8
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation or termination is not
                   caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                   perform any of its obligations under such
                   agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from
                   other sources on terms and conditions
                   consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                   under this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
       Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
       (a)   the Borrower has adopted an Implementation Manual
acceptable to the Association;
       (b)   the Borrower has established a Project accounting and
financial management system acceptable to the Association;
       (c)   the Borrower has appointed an auditing firm
acceptable to the Association for the purposes of Section
4.01(b) of this Agreement;
       (d)   the Borrower has opened the Project Account and
deposited the Initial Deposit;
       (e)   the Borrower has opened in regard to each of the
Selected Districts a project sub-account in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Association under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association;
       (f)   UTA has been staffed in a manner acceptable to the
Association and has prepared a work program acceptable to the
Association;
       (g)   the Borrower has employed or appointed, as the case
may be, at least six of the experts referred to in paragraph 4
(i) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the experts referred
to in paragraphs 4 (ii) and (iii) of the same Schedule, all in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement; and
       (h)   all the conditions precedent to the initial
disbursement of the Norwegian Grant Agreement and of the Danish
Grant Agreement respectively, except for the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
       Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             Ministry of Finance and Planning
Page  9
             P.O. Box 389
             Niamey
             Niger
                                     Telex:
                                     5463 NI
       For the Association:
             International Development Association
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:          Telex:
                   INDEVAS           248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.   82987 (FTCC)
                                      64145 (WUI) or
                                     197688 (TRT)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                         By /s/ Almoustapha Soumaila
                                                   Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                                                      Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                        Amount of the
                       Grant Allocated       % of
                        (Expressed in     Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works           7,180,000       100% of foreign
                                          expenditures and
                                          95% of local
                                          expenditures
(2) Goods (including      2,690,000       100% of foreign
    vehicles, equipment                   expenditures
    and cartographic                      95% of local
    materials)                            expenditures
Page  10
(3) Consultants'          1,550,000       100%
    Services,
    Studies and
    Training
(4) Incremental           3,830,000       95%
    Operating
    Costs
(5) Refunding of          1,010,000       Amount due
    Project                               pursuant to
    Preparation                           Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                               of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated           1,740,000
                         __________
     TOTAL               18,000,000
                         ==========
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
       (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if
the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country
from the territory of which the goods and services are
supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or
services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
       (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means
expenditures for office consumable (including telephone,
facsimile and other communication expenses), staff travel and
associated subsistence allowances, salary for  incremental
contractual and temporary staff, office rental, office supplies
and maintenance, and fuel for vehicles.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for goods and works under contracts not exceeding $100 000
equivalent, for services of consulting firms under contracts
not exceeding $75,000 and for services of individual
consultants not exceeding $30,000, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
       The objectives of the Project are:
       (i) to assist selected rural Communities in different
agro-ecological zones in designing and implementing CBNRM Plans
for their lands and provide them with the necessary know-how,
information, technical and financial resources, within a proper
institutional and legal framework; and
       (ii) to assist the Borrower in building up a national
capacity to promote, assist and coordinate the diverse NRM
initiatives within the framework of a long-term national
program, as well as in designing a comprehensive set of
national NRM policies and strategies.
Page  11
       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:      CBNRM Plans
1.     Provision of assistance (including the acquisition of
equipment and vehicles) to about 280 Communities in Selected
Districts for the design and implementation of CBNRM Plans.
2.     Provision of assistance (including the acquisition of
equipment and vehicles) to about 100 additional Communities
already benefiting from an assistance to NRM projects, to carry
out additional investments, training and studies, and to
receive specialized services.
Part B:      CBNRM Assistance
1.     Carrying out of a natural resource assessment at the
national level and establishing a national natural resource
information network as a baseline to support the activities of
Part A of the Project.
2.     Carrying out of CBNRM-related research and studies and
provision of short and medium-term technical assistance.
3.     Carrying out a program for human resources development and
public awareness building through CBNRM sensitization and
training of Community members, development partners, and the
Borrower's personnel.
4.     Production of aerial photographs, photo-mosaics and land-
use maps for the Selected Districts and of detailed maps of the
Communities under Part A of the Project.
Part C:      National NRM Policy Assistance
1.     Carrying out studies and reports, assisting in drafting
policy documents and in supplying and disseminating NRM-related
information.
2.     Provisions of assistance to the RDSC secretariat in
organizing meetings and field trips and in preparing and
distributing reports.
3.     Establishing and operating a Land Tenure Commission in
three Selected Districts.
                             * * *
       The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
2001.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      General
       Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the "Guidelines") and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:      International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
Page  12
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
       (a)   Grouping of contracts
       To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent
or more each.
       (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
       The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
1.     Limited International Bidding
       Goods required under Part B.4 of the Project, estimated to
cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.     National Competitive Bidding
       Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,400,000
equivalent, and works offered locally estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $3,600,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.     National Shopping
       Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.     Community Participation
       Works required for Part A of the Project estimated to cost
less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $8,400,000 equivalent, shall be procured
through community participation, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
       Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify
for bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
       With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  13
3.     Post Review
       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the "Consultant Guidelines"). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the
Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $75,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $30,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
review by the Association shall not apply to (i) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (ii) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank, (iv) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $75,000 equivalent or above, or (v) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                           Implementation Program
1.     The Borrower shall carry out the Project in conformity
with an Implementation Manual which shall contain, inter alia,
detailed procedures and schedules for each of the Project
components, a Project monitoring and retrospective evaluation
system and, among other things, with specific regard to Part A
of the Project, types of eligible investments and activities,
guidelines concerning Community contributions and alternative
sources of funding, budgeting procedures, procurement
arrangements and standard bidding documents. All amendments to
the Implementation Manual shall be subject to the Association's
prior consent.
2.     NRMSC shall have the purpose of reviewing and approving
annual work plans for the Project. The NRMSC shall be composed
of selected members of RDSC and of representatives of the
Communities. The NRMSC shall be chaired by the Secretary
General of MAL and shall meet at least twice a year. The NRMSC
shall be maintained, until the completion of the Project, with
composition and terms of reference acceptable to the
Association.
3.     NRMU shall operate under the supervision of the Secretary
General of MAL and, inter alia, shall be responsible for the
overall coordination and management of the Project. NRMU shall,
inter alia: (i) assist and supervise the Project staff; (ii)
carry out the Project monitoring and evaluation; (iii) gather
and disseminate NRM related information; and (iv) advise
decision-makers on NRM policies and strategies.
Page  14
4.     The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
employ or appoint in NRMU: (i) eleven technical experts
selected, inter alia, in the following areas: agronomy,
forestry, water resource, livestock and range land management,
social-anthropology, gender issues, agro-economy, land tenure,
decentralization, land use planning, monitoring and evaluation,
training and NRM information system; (ii) one expert in
finance; and (iii) one expert in procurement. The Borrower
shall ensure that the above-mentioned NRMU staff shall not, be
transferred, removed or replaced for at least three years after
the date of their employment, without prior approval of the
Association.
5.     For the purpose of providing assistance in natural
resource management to the Communities and of assisting them
prepare and implement CBNRM Plans, the Borrower shall establish
a NRMDT acceptable to the Association in each of the Selected
Districts, comprising a team leader, a monitoring and
evaluation specialist, an accountant and two community support
teams.
6.     For the purpose of ensuring Community involvement in the
design and implementation of CBNRM Plans, the Borrower shall
cause the Communities participating in Part A.1 of the Project
to establish a CNRM acceptable to the Association.
7.     For the purpose of reviewing and approving CBNRM Plans and
of monitoring their implementation, the Borrower shall
establish a NRMDC acceptable to the Association in each of the
Selected Districts, which shall consist of representatives of
the District Technical Committees and the Communities.
8.     The Borrower shall, following criteria acceptable to the
Association, in each Community of Part A.1 of the Project,
provide a CBNRM Plan, including the details of the investments
to be financed under Part A.1 of the Project: (a) designed by
the CNRM and NRMDT; (b) approved by the NRMDC; (c) endorsed by
the Borrower's authority at the District level; and (d) signed
by the Community and the NRMDT.
9.     As part of the Borrower's obligations under Section 3.01
(a) of this Agreement, the Borrower's extension agents shall
participate in the selection of Communities under Part A.1 of
the Project and shall assist such Communities in the design and
implementation of CBNRM Plans. Regular contacts among such
extension agents, NRMDTs, CNRMs and the Communities
participating in Part A.1 of the Project shall be ensured by
liaison agents financed under the Project. The number and
location of liaison agents as well as the criteria for their
selection shall be acceptable to the Association.
10.    (a)   For the purposes of Part A.1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall maintain for each of the Selected Districts a
project sub-account in a commercial bank acceptable to the
Association under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association. Out of the proceeds of the Project Account, the
Borrower shall deposit into each of such project sub-accounts
an amount equivalent to $50,000. Replenishments of the project
sub-accounts for eligible expenditures to be financed under
Part A.1 of the Project shall be made from the Special Account
and the Project Account.
        (b)  No initial replenishment shall be made out of
proceeds of the Special Account into the project sub-account in
the district of Boboye unless: (i) the Boboye NRMDC has been
established and has become operational, with terms of reference
and composition acceptable to the Association; (ii) an
agreement between NRMU and ONVPE, acceptable to the
Association, has been made including the terms and conditions
under which ONVPE will operate; and (iii) ONVPE staff for the
district of Boboye has been appointed and is acceptable to the
Association.
Page  15
       (c)   No initial replenishment shall be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account into any of the project sub-
accounts in the districts of Dogondoutchi, Goure, Say and
Tessaoua unless: (i) the related NRMDC has been established and
has become operational, with terms of reference and composition
acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the staff of the NRMDT
and the liaison agents have been appointed, with terms of
reference and qualifications acceptable to the Association.
11.    The Communities shall carry out the implementation of the
CBNRM Plans as part of their contribution to Project
implementation and for those activities that cannot be executed
by the Communities such implementation shall be contracted out.
After receiving prior agreement of the CNRM, the head of each
NRMDT shall be responsible for executing the contracts and
approving the payments thereof.
12.    The records and accounts for the Project Account and for
the project sub-accounts referred to in paragraph 10 of this
Schedule for each fiscal year shall be audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
       (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceedsof the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the Eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
       (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent
to $800,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of
SDR 6,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence acceptable to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
       (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
       (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Page  16
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                    requests for deposits into the Special Account
                    at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
             (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                    the documents and other evidence required
                    pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                    the payment or payments in respect of which
                    replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                    each such request, the Association shall, on
                    behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                    Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                    Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                    requested and as shall have been shown by said
                    documents and other evidence to have been paid
                    out of the Special Account for Eligible
                    Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective Eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
       (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
       (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
       (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
       (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.     (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
Page  17
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
       (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
       (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
       (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
