FILE COPY U rDocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1844-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRAS
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
NORTHEAST POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
June 14, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 8, 1976)
Currency Unit      -     Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1               -      Cr$1o.650
Cr$1               -     US$tO.094
CR$1,000           -     US$9.400O
Cr$1,000,000       -     US$94,000
ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEIPE      - Companhia de Eletricidade de Pernambuco
CHESF      - Companhia Hidro Eletrica do SKo Francisco
COELBA     -  Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado da Bahia
COELCE     -  Companhia de Eletricidade do Ceara
COPEB      -  Companhia Paranaense de Energia El6trica
DNAEE      - Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia El6trica
ELETROBRAS -  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A.
ELETROSUL  -  Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil S.A.
FURNAS     - Furnas Centrais Eletricas S.A.
GGF        - Global Guarantee Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRAS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF
BRAZIL FOR A NORTHEAST POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS with the guarantee
of the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$50.0 million
to help finance a power distribution project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.85% per annum.
ELETROBRAS would relend all but a small portion of the proceeds of the loan,
on the same terms, to three state utility companies in Northeast Brazil,
Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado da Bahia (COELBA), Companhia de Eletri-
cidade de Pernambuco (CELPE) and Companhia de Eletricidade do Ceara (COELCE).
The balance would be retained by ELETROBRAS to help finance consulting ser-
vices and a training program benefitting the sector as a whole.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (812-BR), dated
July 7, 1975, was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 21, 1975.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        During 1967-74 the combination of excellent domestic economic manage-
ment and a buoyant world economic environment produced a period of high and
sustained income growth, strong balance of payments performance and gradually
decelerating inflation. Brazil's average annual rate of growth of about 10%
over this period resulted in a 60% increase in per capita income, a 130% in-
crease in manufacturing output and a 380% increase in the US dollar value of
exports. However, international economic events in 1974 and 1975 have forced
at least a temporary slowdown in the pace of economic growth. With the sharp
deterioration of the country's terms of trade and the disruption of the world
capital market, the balance of payments is proving to be a severe constraint
on Brazil's growth. As a result, the pace of growth has dropped sharply, into
the 4-5% range during 1975-76.
4.        The fourfold increase in the price of crude oil (adding some US$2
billion to the import bill), the steep rise in the price of most imported raw
materials, as well as the hardening of terms of extetnal financial credits,
made management of the external sector difficult in 1974-75. These factors
caught Brazil at the time when its economy was overheated and growth of import
demand was very high, because after a prolonged period of rapid growth some
key industrial sectors were approaching capacity levels of output. The
1/   This section is reprinted from the President's Report on the COPEL
Power Distribution project for Brazil (No. P-1774-BR), dated April 28,
1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
current account deficit, which averaged just US$1 billion in 1969-73, or 2%
of GDP, widened to about US$7 billion or 7% of GDP in 1974, reflecting the
sizeable differential between import growth (about 100%) and export growth
(roughly 30%) and the increasing level of interest payments on debt. The bulk
of the deficit was financed by a large increase in the inflow of external
financial credits of considerably shorter maturity than was generally avail-
able during 1971-73.
5.        The Government attempted to narrow the balance-of-payments current
account deficit in 1975. It was successful in keeping imports somewhat below
the level in 1974 in nominal terms by maintaining a balanced budget, continu-
ing the crawling peg exchange rate policy and introducing direct import
controls. This implied a substantial reduction in the real level of imports
and was accompanied by a decline in the rate of GDP growth to 4%. Export
growth of about 9% was somewhat disappointing, largely due to the frost in
Southern Brazil in July 1975, which adversely affected production of some key
crops, including coffee and sugar, and a slowdown in manufactured export growth
as a consequence of the recession in the consuming countries. Nevertheless,
because of import restraint the trade deficit declined from US$4.7 billion in
1974 to US$3.5 billion in 1975. However, improvement in the trade account was
virtually offset by a large increase in interest payments reflecting the growth
of the external debt and higher Eurodollar interest rates.
6.        The Government monitored the balance-of-payments situation very
closely and in the second half of 1975 adopted several new measures designed
to produce a further contraction of imports in 1976. The new measures estab-
lished advance import deposit requirements on approximately 40% of merchandise
imports, further increased import duties, increased gasoline prices by 25% and
continued restriction of public sector imports. In addition, as a longer term
measure, the Government has given the state petroleum monopoly, PETROBRAS,
permission to undertake service contracts with foreign oil companies. It is
clear, however, that despite these measures 1976 will be another difficult year
for balance-of-payments management as prospects are for a relatively small
gain in exports and, as a result, economic growth can again be expected to be
in the 4% range.
7.        Adverse developments during 1974-75 reflect the fact that in recent
years, Brazil has become more closely integrated into the world economy and
its growth has become more dependent upon and vulnerable to changes in the
world economic situation. The slowdown in the rate of growth of the world
economy has, with some lag, had an adverse impact on prices of Brazil's
primary exports and on the rate of growth of its exports of manufactures, and,
through the balance of payments, on the overall growth of the economy. It now
appears that world economic conditions will not permit Brazil to grow during
1975-80 at the 10% pace attained in the preceding years. However, despite the
reduced pace of growth in 1975-76 a growth path averaging 6% per annum is still
feasible for 1975-80 as a whole. It is estimated that to attain such a growth
path, the average annual net inflow of medium- and long-term capital (that is,
capital other than direct investments and financial credits) required for the
1975-80 period will be substantial, about US$1.8 billion, or three times the
average for the 1970-74 period.



- 3 -
8.        At the end of 1975, Brazil's public external debt reached about
US$11 billion. The public debt service ratio for 1975 is estimated at around
16.7% which Is in llne with that of other countries at a similar stage of devel-
opment. Brazil's total (public and private) external debt reached about US$22
billion at the end of 1975, of which about two-thlrds, or US$15 billion was in
the form of financial credits. The debt servlce ratio during 1975 on this to-
tal external debt was about 38%, or about the same as the average for 1969-73.
However, it should be noted that net foreign exchange reserves at the end of
1975 were still large, about US$4.6 billion, equlvalent to some four months of
the 1975 Imports of goods and non-factor services. While the total debt ser-
vice ratio can be expected to rise somewhat.in 1976, if an export growth rate
of around 17% per year in dollar terms (compared to 30% in 1970-74) can be
maintained over the 1975-80 period and If average maturlties of new financial
credits gradually improve from six to eight years, the debt service ratio in
1980 can be expected to return to the level prevaillng in the 1969-73 period.
Desplte Brazil's heavy debt service burden, the large foreign exchange reserves
accumulated over the past several years ensure that the country will have the
liquidity to meet its debt service obligations in the short term, while the
country's record of hlgh caliber financial management provides grounds for
confidence In the maintenance of creditworthiness over the longer run.
9.        Despite its recent growth and vast potential, Brazil is still a
country with a very unequal distribution of income and extensive absolute
poverty. The present Government acknowledges the gravity of the country's
income distribution problem and accepts the responsiblity for its alleviation.
While llke the previous Government it believes that a high rate of growth is
necessary to increase the income of the poor, it does not believe that the
"trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and Is shaping a new posi-
tive policy which could be labeled as "redistribution along with growth". To
this end, in addition to pursuing some of the social programs initiated by
its predecessor, the Government is also working on new measures for improving
income dlstribution. These can be classified into three broad areas: (a)
regional development; (b) provision of social services; and (c) wage policy.
In addition, recent tax changes have tended to have a favorable, although
marginal, Impact on income distribution.
10.       As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural devel-
opment in the Northeast. The program envisages investment expenditures of
about US$2.5 billion during 1975-79 and is designed to raise the productivity
and incomes of small farmers through, inter alia, formulation and execution of
integrated rural development projects, which are likely in some cases to include
changes In land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based on the assumption that the rural
Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous whole and, therefore, standard-
ized programs are inadequate. The Government identified 28 sub-regions cover-
ing large portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would be used
initially. The recently approved Rio Grande do Norte project is one of the
first under POLONORDESTE, and the Government intends to present additional
similar projects for Bank consideration in the future. Active consideration
is belng glven to a major modification in the state value added tax system



- 4 -
to redistribute fiscal resources from the richer to the poorer states, in
order to give the latter the fiscal resources which they badly need to accel-
erate social programs, particularly in education. In the area of social
services, the Government has created a new Ministry of Social Security in
order to consolidate its social benefit programs and to extend these programs
to a larger share of the population. In 1975 it allowed, under the Social
Integration Program (PIS, a social security fund), the lowest paid workers
covered by PIS, with incomes previously between about US$60 and US$300 monthly,
to withdraw up to one month's minimum wage (about US$60) from their PIS
accounts. The Government is also strengthening the nutrition program which,
under the previous Government, got off to a slow start. Greater emphasis is
being given by BNH (the National Housing Bank) to low-income housing, whose
beneficiaries will enjoy better financial terms than in the past. BNH is also
developing a site and services program to reach parts of the population even
lower down the income scale. In agriculture, the recently reorganized rural
extension agency (EMBRATER) will expand and strengthen its activities directed
specifically toward the small-scale farmer; and the new federal agriculture
research institution (EMBRAPA) is defining its program to include a selection
of crops and farming-systems which will ensure that small-scale farms benefit
from research efforts. Overall, the Government's public investment program
for 1975-77 gives high priority to education, health, agriculture and regional
development, which account for about 30% of total public investment. Finally,
the Government intends to use a wage policy to improve income distribution.
It has already revised the formula governing the adjustment of the union wage
scale and has introduced an 8-10% increase in the real minimum wage.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
Bank Operations
11.       As of April 30, 1976, the Bank had approved 60 loans for Brazil,
amounting to US$2,603.1 million, of which 36 had not been fully disbursed.
During FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increas-
ing to an average of US$136 milion per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225
million in FY74, US$248 million in FY75, and US$163 million in the first
three quarters of FY76. Disbursements will continue to increase during the
next few years. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of
April 30, 1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
12.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans
were approved totalling US$437 million, including three loans totalling
US$192 million for the Stage II expansion of the steel industry. In FY73,
six loans amounting to US$187.7 million; in FY74 three loans totalling
US$242 million and in FY75, five loans totalling US$426.5 million were ap-
proved. Up to May 31, 1976, eight loans totalling US$429 million have been
approved in FY76: US$60 million for the COSIPA Stage III steel expansion
program; US$75 million for the FEPASA railway rehabilitation and expansion
program; US$12 million for the Rio Grande do Norte rural development project;



- 5 -
US$85 million for a development banking project for small and medium-sized
industries; US$55 million for a secondary and feeder roads project; US$40
million for an agricultural research project; US$52 million for an electric
power distribution project in the state of Parana; and US$50 million for an
ammonia/urea fertilizer project. Also, a US$19 million loan for a nutrition
project is being presented to the Executive Directors in June. We are working
actively with the Brazilians on the preparation of two additional fertilizer
projects, a second Minas Gerais water supply and sewerage project, a power
transmission project in the South, a project in support of the establishment
of a non-flat steel enterprise, a second line of credit for agro-industries,
and several rural development projects, including one in the state of Minas
Gerais.
13.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1975, amounting to US$11 billion, the Bank held about 10%. The Bank's
share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present trends continue
as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt outstanding would
increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt service would rise
to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public and private) external
debt service would remain at the present level of 2.7%.
IFC Operations
14.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of April 30, 1976, IFC had made 27 commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$262.9 million, of which US$32.6 million has been cancelled,
US$20.4 million repaid and US$126.9 million sold. Of the balance of US$83.0
million, US$60.6 million represents loans and US$22.4 million equity. A
summary of IFC's investments up to April 30, 1976 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
15.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives, which are interdepen-
dent and complementary. One of these objectives is to support institutional
development and policy reform, designed inter alia to help maximize public
savings and ensure that they are used economically. As in the case of pre-
vious loans in the electric power sector, the proposed project will help
improve operation, reduce energy losses and improve the financial management
of the three beneficiary companies. Support for institutional improvement has
also been the central objective of the recently approved development banking
project and the agricultural research project. The development banking proj-
ect will assist in the project appraisal and selection ability of 22 state
and regional development banks. The agricultural research project will assist
the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation, EMBRAPA, to improve the coor-
dination and intensify the production orientation of Brazil's agricultural
research efforts in the Northeast, North and Center-West of the country. The
institution-building objective has also been particularly important in our



- 6 -
assistance to the transportation sector, where emphasis has been given to the
rational selection of railway, highway and port investments, the strengthening
of railway operations and the improvement of the financial performance of the
railways.
16.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support the growing
effort of the Government to identify and develop projects designed to increase
productivity and incomes of the lowest income segments of the population, to
broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to alleviate
poverty. The proposed electric power distribution project will enable COELBA,
COELCE and CELPE to increase the number of residential consumers served from
916,000 in 1975 to 1,242,000 in 1979, an increase of 8% p.a. during the
project period. The project would also be instrumental in providing services
to 41,000 low income residential households which cannot at present afford to
obtain electrical connections. The recently approved electricity distribution
project in the State of Parana has a similar goal. The Bank is also partici-
pating in other important development efforts in Brazil's urban areas, and
the recently approved development banking project, by focusing on small and
medium-sized industries, will give special support to a segment of the indus-
trial sector that has significant labor absorption prospects and should result
in the creation of a sizeable number of new jobs in many urban areas in the
country. The nutrition project, being proposed in June to the Executive
Directors, is designed to further assist low-income groups. In the agricul-
tural sector, the agricultural research project, the Lower Sao Francisco
polders project, and the Rio Grande do Norte rural development project, will
help develop the range of rural services necessary to ensure that improved
technology is made available to small farmers. With the collaboration of Bank
staff, the Government is preparing additional integrated rural development
projects to increase the productivity of the small farmer and we expect to
present in the future an increasing number of projects of this type. We are
also actively associated with the preparation of new projects in the fields of
site and services, and rural education.
17.       Another important lending objective for the Bank has been to help
Brazil ease the foreign exchange constraint on its development, a constraint
that has become more critical since the increase in petroleum prices, by
supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's export capacity and, where
economical, to substitute domestic production for imports. The balance of
payments would be aided by the agricultural research project as well as by the
fertilizer and agro-industries projects. These projects would help Brazil
reduce imports of essential foodstuffs and fertilizer and enable Brazil to
export additional quantities of foodstuffs to the rest of the world. Much of
the investment which the Bank has helped finance in Brazil's transport sector
--railways, ports, and highways--is designed to facilitate the smooth and
economical flow of exports. Also, support of the steel expansion program is
helping Brazil develop output of a commodity which can be produced efficiently
in Brazil owing to the country's bountiful supply of high-grade iron ore and
the scale of its internal markets.



- 7 -
18.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. In some sectors, such as steel and electric power generation
and transmission, the Bank's participation has helped Brazil to obtain addi-
tional bilateral suppliers' and financial credits in greater amounts and on
more favorable terms than would otherwise have been possible. It is possible
that the proposed electric power distribution project would be associated with
a private placement with US institutional investors which ELETROBRAS is arran-
ging, and which would be used to finance investments complementary to those
proposed to be financed by the Bank's loan (see para. 50).
PART III - THE ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR
19.       The proposed loan to ELETROBRAS for the power distribution project
would be the Bank's twenty-ninth for the development of the power sector in
Brazil and the first to ELETROBRAS.
Energy Resources
20.       Brazil has one of the largest hydroelectric potentials in the world,
estimated at about 100,000 MW of which less than 15% has been utilized so far,
with most of the plants located in the south and southeast regions. Coal and
oil resources are not as abundant; proven reserves consist of about 3,200 mil-
lion tons of bituminous and sub-bituminous coal and about 780 million barrels
of petroleum. Total domestic production of crude oil was 177,000 barrels per
day in 1975 representing about 18% of the country's needs. The estimated to-
tal energy consumption in 1975 was about 108 million tons of oil equivalent
and is expected to grow at a rate of about 8% per annum during the next five
years. Oil products represent about 49% of total energy consumption, natural
gas 2%, coal 2%, hydroelectricity about 20%, and other fuels such as firewood,
charcoal and sugarcane bagasse about 27%. The consumption of these other fuels
is expected to remain stable, and their relative importance to fall steadily in
the future. No economically exploitable deposit of uranium has been found so
far but thorium resources in the country are among the largest in the world
and in the long term may contribute to the development of nuclear power.
The Power Sector
21.       The power sector is operated by a number of federal- and state-owned
companies, and one large private company (LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade S.A.).
The sector is administered by the Ministry of Mines and Energy through Its
Department of Water and Electric Energy (DNAEE) which performs regulatory func-
tions, including granting licenses for hydroelectric sites, assigning conces-
sion areas, setting tariffs and approving expansion plans.



- 8 -
22.       Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A. (ELETROBRAS) is a Government
enterprise under the Ministry of Mines and Energy in charge of planning,
technical coordination, financing and administration of the electric power
sector. Power generation and related high voltage transmission are reserved
largely to four ELETROBRAS subsidiaries which cover Brazil's five geographical
regions. They are Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil (ELETRONORTE) cover-
ing the North and part of the Central-West, Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao
Francisco (CHESF), covering the Northeast, FURNAS-Centrais Eletricas (FURNAS)
covering the Southeast and part of the Central-West, and Centrais Eletricas
do Sul do Brasil (ELETROSUL) covering the South. In addition, a binational
company, Itaipu Binacional, formed by Brazil and Paraguay, is implementing the
gigantic Itaipu project on the Parana River.
23.       Sector planning and development is carried out by ELETROBRAS, which
prepares investment programs for the sector which cover 5-year periods and,
since 1968, have been revised annually. These programs enable ELETROBRAS
and the Government to apply rational criteria in selecting projects to meet
anticipated demand and to provide for their adequate financial support. Be-
cause the multiannual programs contain information regarding equipment re-
quirements, they also afford manufacturers opportunities for better planning
of their activities.
24.       The power distribution function at the state level is carried out
mainly by utilities owned by the state governments. There have been in
recent years a number of acquisitions and mergers of smaller municipally
and privately owned distribution companies by state-owned utilities as well
as transfers to them of some of ELETROBRAS' subsidiaries engaged in distri-
bution. Today, with the exception of the Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo areas
which are served principally by LIGHT, most power distribution is handled by
one company in each state.
The Northeast Region
25.       The Northeast region, with 30% of Brazil's population, accounted
for about 25% of the total energy consumption (10% of the power consumption)
of the country in 1975, with a per capita consumption of about 0.8 tons of oil
equivalent (1.0 tons nationwide). More than half of this energy is derived
from wood products and wastes. Bagasse is used for production of process
steam in the sugar industry. Wood and charcoal are used for home cooking by
the low-income population. This has created serious deforestation in the
Northeast with adverse ecological effects. In 1970, the consumption of oil
products accounted for 24%, natural gas 11% and hydroelectricity 7% of the
total energy consumption in the Northeast.
26.       In 1975, about 97% of the electric power consumption of the North-
east region was supplied by CHESF, the balance being supplied by industries
which generate their own power. Industry and agriculture account for more
than 57% of consumption, and the second largest consumer category, residen-
tial, for just under 20%. CHESF sold about 80% of its power to the distri-
buting companies of the Northeast region, including the proposed beneficiaries.
The remaining power was sold directly to large industries connected at 230 kV.



27.       As of December 1975, CHESF had 1,853 MW of generating capacity in
operation, 91% of which is hydro and 9% thermal. Of the hydro capacity, 92%
comes from the Paulo Afonso stations on the Sao Francisco River. CHESF has
3,910 MW of generating capacity under construction which will meet the demand
up to 1980. The Bank has provided financial assistance under Loan 1008-BR, of
June 17, 1974, for the Paulo Afonso IV Project which will have 2,000 MW of
installed capacity upon completion.
28.       According to a market study made jointly by CHESF and ELETROBRAS in
1975, the expected composition and growth rate of the load for the Northeast
for the period 1975-1985 is as follows:
1975                1980                1985
% of    Rate of     % of      Rate of   % of     Rate of
Total   Growth*     Total     Growth*   Total    Growth*
Residential       19.9      10.8      17.3        9.5      16.6      8.8
Commercial         9.8      10.9       8.7        9.6       8.2      8.9
Industrial        56.8      24.6      59.5       13.2      60.9     10.7
Government        13.1      11.9      11.5        8.8       9.8      7.5
Irrigation         0.4       n.a.      3.0       63.9       4.5     19.5
*    Average annual rate of growth for the previous 5 years.
The proportion of the residential, commercial and Government consumption is
expected to decrease and the industrial and irrigation loads to increase, as
a result of the programs which the Government has undertaken for the develop-
ment of the Northeast.
29.       In 1975, the percentage of population with electric service in the
concession areas for COELBA, CELPE and COELCE was as follows:
COELBA      CELPE        COELCE
(Bahia) (Pernambuco)     (Ceara)
In cities with 100,000
population or more                     62           65          62
In cities with population
between 10,000 and 100,000             40           50          14
In towns with population
below 10,000 and rural areas           11           12           3
In the entire concession area          26           34          22



- 10 -
The availability of electric service in the states of Bahia, Pernambuco and
Ceara is low outside of the state capitals of Salvador, Recife, and Fortaleza,
and is particularly low in rural areas. The main problem in extending elec-
tricity service to small towns and rural areas is poor investment return due
to high capital and operation cost coupled with low levels of electricity use
by the mostly low-income population. One possible solution to this problem,
which would be studied as part of the proposed project, would be to adopt
lower standards (compatible with safety requirements) for distrlbution systems
at the expense of some service reliability.
30.       In the urban areas of the region there are potential consumers who
can pay the minimum electric bill but do not receive electric service because
they cannot afford connection and installation costs. Under the proposed
project, the beneficiaries would start a pilot program to promote connections
of low income households (expected to be households with minimum monthly
income of as low as US$75, i.e., at the lowest 25 percentile of the income
scale in urban areas in the Northeast and the lowest 35% in Brazil as a
whole). It is hoped that the program would be a model for future programs in
the beneficiaries' service areas and in those of other utilities in Brazil
(see para. 46).
Electric Power Tariffs
31.        Brazilian legislation concerning the electric power sector assures
that electric utilities receive sufficient funds to cover their operating
expenses (excluding financial charges), depreciation, "reversion quota," 1/
and a reasonable return on investment. Since 1966, annual revaluation of
assets against which tariffs are calculated has been mandatory, and the
tariff law of 1971 required that utilities earn a rate of return of not less
than 10% and not more than 12%. In addition to the tariff, residential and
commercial consumers pay the "sole tax" (imposto unico) which, since 1972, has
been assessed at the rate of about 25% and 30% of their respective tariffs
(industrial consumers are exempted). As a result, the electric bill paid by
the Brazilian residential and commercial consumers is among the highest in the
world. The proceeds from the imposto unico are used mostly for sector invest-
ments and are distributed as follows: 37% to ELETROBRAS, 2% to DNAEE, 1% to
the Ministry of Mines and Energy, 50% to the states and 10% to the municipal-
ities. Industrial consumers are required to make a compulsory loan to
ELETROBRAS by purchasing 20-year 6% ELETROBRAS bonds (subject to monetary
correction). The amount of the compulsory loan is equivalent to about 50% of
the tariff for small industrial consumers and to 58% of the tariff for large
industrial consumers. Tariffs in the sector, which are consistent with sound
1/   The "reversion quota" is assessed at a rate of up to 5% on the value of
gross utility plant in service less accumulated advances, contributions
and grants; of this, 3% is lent by Government to ELETROBRAS which uses
the funds to finance investments in the sector and the balance comprises
the sole source of funds for the "Global Guarantee Fund" (see para. 32).



- 11 -
financial and public utility practices, together with charges such as the
"sole tax", enabled the sector to increase installed capacity at an average
rate of 10.1% per year since 1964, reaching about 20,100 MW in 1975, and to
keep pace with an average annual growth in gross consumption of 9.2% while
improving reserve margins.
32.       In 1974, DNAEE began to use its discretionary powers to effect pro-
gressive equalization of customer rates throughout Brazil. One result of this
action was that rates of return for the comparatively higher cost utilities
fell below 10%. To meet this problem, a Global Guarantee Fund (GGF) was
created in December 1974, as a mechanism intended to assure qualifying utili-
ties a return of up to 10%. At the same time, in order to promote the effi-
ciency of those utilities supported by GGF, DNAEE put into effect a number
of measures which restrict the utilities from increasing their operating
costs, undertaking investments, and expanding markets without DNAEE's prior
approval.
33.       Agreements prior to 1975 between the Bank and several Brazilian elec-
tric utilities provided that tariff rates would be set at a level that would
provide the return stated in Brazilian legislation, i.e., between 10% and 12%.
In recognition of the efforts of the Brazilian Government to equalize electric
charges throughout the nation, it has been agreed that, if transfers from the
GGF are required, they will be sufficient to bring the beneficiaries' return
to 10% (Sections 3.02 (b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement and 4.04 (c) of
the draft Project Agreement, 6.01 (f) of the draft Loan Agreement and draft
supplemental letter).
34.       The present electricity tariff system results in a high level of
resource mobilization while discouraging nonessential use of electricity.
There are, however, some important aspects of the structure (as distinct from
the level) of tariffs, that should be investigated. The Brazilian Government
plans shortly to undertake a study of the tariff structure under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank. The Government will present to the Bank
the results of such study for which the proposed loan would provide funds
(Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       A report entitled "Appraisal of Northeast Power Distribution Proj-
ect" (No. 1088-BR dated June 10, 1976) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. The main features of the proposed project and loan
are summarized in Annex III. The project was appraised by a mission which
visited Brazil in October/November 1975. Negotiations with ELETROBRAS, CELPE,
COELCE, the Guarantor, and the states of Pernambuco and Ceara were held in
Washington from May 19 to May 25, 1976. The State of Bahia and COELBA were
not able to send representatives but later agreed to the terms and conditions
negotiated by the Brazilian delegation as set forth in the draft Shareholder
and Project Agreements. ELETROBRAS was represented by Mr. Julius Wilberg.



- 12 -
The Borrower
36.       The Borrower, ELETROBRAS, was established in 1961 as an open capi-
tal corporation, owned almost entirely by the Federal Government. ELETROBRAS'
assets, which totalled US$4.6 billion at year-end 1975, include most of the
capital stock of its four operating subsidiaries, smaller shareholdings in
other electric utilities and also loans to subsidiaries and other utilities.
Its resources consist of operational revenues such as dividends and interest,
loan amortization payments and miscellaneous income. During the 1970-1975
period, operational revenues, mostly dividends and interest, accounted for
38% of ELETROBRAS' total resources. Other resources consisted of Federal
Government budgetary appropriations and reinvestment of dividends (4%),
compulsory loan from industrial consumers (23%), proceeds of the reversion tax
lent by the Government (19%), borrowings (6%), and ELETROBRAS' share of the
sole tax (10%) (see para. 31). ELETROBRAS resources totalled US$1.4 billion
equivalent in 1975. Outstanding borrowings at year end 1975 totalled US$1.7
billion equivalent of which 15% was from sources abroad (Inter-American
Development Bank, bilateral agencies, commercial banks and utility holding
companies) and 85% from domestic sources. The very strong financial position
of ELETROBRAS has not been reviewed in detail, and the appraisal has focussed
on evaluating the financial condition of the beneficiaries.
37.       ELETROBRAS would onlend all of the proceeds of the Loan to the three
beneficiary companies except for a modest amount which would be used by
ELETROBRAS for training and consulting services benefitting the sector as a
whole. Interest rate, grace period and amortization period would be the same
as in the Bank loan. ELETROBRAS would receive from the companies a one-time
commission of 1/2% of the sub-loan amounts, and a service fee of 1/4% per
annum of the disbursed amounts during the disbursement period and 1/8% per
annum thereafter. The beneficiaries would carry the foreign exchange risk.
ELETROBRAS has participated actively in project preparation, has assisted the
beneficiary companies with various studies related to the project, and has
provided other managerial assistance. ELETROBRAS would administer the consult-
ing services and training component of the project.
The Beneficiaries
38.       COELBA, CELPE and COELCE are stock corporations, whose main share-
holders are the states of Bahia (47%), Pernambuco (90%) and Ceara (35%),
respectively. ELETROBRAS holds 37% of the shares of COELBA, 5% of CELPE,
and 26% of COELCE. The three companies have the concessions for planning,
building and operating transmission and distribution systems in their res-
pective states. The quality of service provided by them is adequate, and
the level of distribution losses acceptable.
39.       Each beneficiary is administered by a Board of Directors and a
Consultative Council whose members are elected by the Shareholders' Assembly.
Each beneficiary has a president, who is also a member of the board. In
CELPE and COELBA, the president is the chief executive officer and is assisted



- 13 -
by a vice-president, likewise a member of the board. In COELCE the manage-
ment of the day-to-day business is shared by the president and other board
members.
40.       Management of the beneficiaries' operations is adequate, although
the main emphasis is given to day-to-day operations, i.e., "maintainance
of service," while technical planning is given low priority. Except for
COELBA, financial management and control need to be strengthened and CELPE
and COELCE, jointly with ELETROBRAS, agreed to prepare and submit to the Bank
within twelve months from loan signature an improvement program for their
financial functions, and to carry out this program by December 31, 1978
(Sections 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement and 3.05 of the draft Project
Agreements with CELPE and COELCE). It is expected that the experience
gained in preparation and execution of the project, reinforced by observa-
tions by Bank staff during project supervision, will promote a better balance
between day-to-day concerns and planning and control in the companies.
41.       The staffs of all of the beneficiaries contain an unduly high pro-
portion of unskilled labor. The beneficiaries are aware that more and better
staff in management and technical positions would improve productivity.
ELETROBRAS agreed to organize, within twelve month from loan signature, a
training program satisfactory to the beneficiaries and to the Bank for the
the beneficiaries' technical staff (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). The cost of overseas training for specialized personnel and of
foreign experts hired for the training program would be financed under the
proposed loan. For intermediate and lower level personnel, the benefi-
ciaries have ample and modern training facilities which are effectively
utilized.
42.       The beneficiaries' profitability has been lower than the 10% to 12%
return earned by other Bank borrowers in the sector due mainly to the nature
of their concession areas which require higher investment costs per customer
and per kWh sold. As a result, the transfer from GGF is an important element
in the companies'financing plans, and the failure to maintain themselves
eligible for the fund during the project period would result in the suspension
of their respective share of the loan (Sections 4.04 (c) of the draft Project
Agreements and 6.01 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Under the eligibility
criteria, the beneficiaries are restricted as to increasing their operating
costs, undertaking investments and expanding their markets and the State
Governments, who are the major beneficiaries' shareholders, have to maintain
their service accounts current and to reinvest dividends. ELETROBRAS would
monitor the indicators of the beneficiaries' performance in increasing labor
productivity, controlling operating expenses and improving management of
current assets during project execution.
43.       The beneficiaries' financial projections over the project period
are reasonable and indicate a satisfactory financial outlook, provided they
receive transfers from GGF. Even excluding receipts from the GGF and
reversion tax payments, the average returns on fixed assets over the project



- 14 -
period would be: COELBA, 9.8%, CELPE, 14.4%; and COELCE, 8.8%. In the event
that COELBA, CELPE and COELCE would not have sufficient funds to assure the
timely completion of the project, the States of Bahia, Pernambuco and Ceara,
respectively, and ultimately the Federal Government would provide them (Sec-
tion 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement and Section 3 of draft Shareholder
Agreements).
44.       To ensure their future operation on a sound financial basis, the
beneficiaries agreed not to incur debt without the Bank's consent if by such
incurrence their debts would exceed 66-2/3% of their remunerable investments,
and not to incur debt with an original term of less than 8 years without the
Bank's consent if by so doing the total outstanding principal of such debt
would exceed 5% of their remunerable investments (Section 4.05 of the draft
Project Agreements).    These provisions are similar to those in recent loans
for electric power in Brazil, except that the term "debt" would include
obligations which by their terms are repayable on demand but in practice
remain outstanding on a long-term basis.
Project Description
45.       The Bank project includes 39% of the beneficiaries' 1976-79 invest-
ment program. The program also includes other works complementary to the Bank
project (23%), ongoing works (27%) and a working capital increase (11%). The
entire expansion programs of the companies appear to be well conceived. The
main components of the Bank-financed project are transmission, subtransmission
and distribution lines, substations, meters, and control, protection and
miscellaneous equipment, including: installation of about 400 km of 138 kV
lines; 180 km of 69 kV lines; 120 km of 34.5 kV lines; 2,650 km of 13.8 kV
lines; and 3,420 km of low tension circuits; construction, expansion or im-
provement of 430 MVA of substation capacity and distribution transformers
with a total capacity of 330 MVA; and 309,000 household electric meters. The
project also includes studies and training under ELECTROBRAS' responsibility,
a portion of which would directly assist the beneficiaries and the rest, the
sector as a whole. Among the latter, and with a view to improve rural ser-
vices, the Borrower and DNAEE would carry out, with the assistance of consul-
tants financed out of the proposed loan and under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank, studies of selection criteria for system extensions
(Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement) and lower cost design stand-
ards for rural areas (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). Further
details of the project components are provided in Annex III. The project
would be carried out between June 30, 1976, and December 31, 1979.
46.       A feature of the proposed project which would have a special impact
on the well-being of at least 41,000 urban households in the beneficiary
companies' concession area is a pilot program to extend service to low-income
consumers. As in the case of the recently approved Parana distribution project,
the beneficiary companies would promote the connection of households in areas
with existing low tension distribution lines which can pay the minimum electric
bill (for 30 kWh per month) but are not connected because they cannot afford



- 15 -
the connection fee and the installation cost of household wiring (Section
2.08 of the draft Project Agreements). The companies would offer these house-
holds:
(a) exemption from the usual connection fee (the cost of connection
between the line and household would be charged to the rate
base); and
(b) financing of the installation within the household of minimum
wiring facilities; such financing to be repaid in at least 36
monthly installments to be added to the electric bill.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
47.       The total cost of the project, as estimated in March 1976, is
US$145.3 million equivalent, with an estimated foreign exchange component of
US$50.5 million equivalent. Estimated foreign costs assume that Brazilian
suppliers would be awarded up to two-thirds of the value of the contracts
placed through international competitive bidding. The cost estimates include
physical contingencies of 5%, as is customary with this type of works. While
mid-1975 prices have not been adjusted to a more recent base in order to main-
tain consistency with the beneficiaries' financial projections, adequate price
contingencies have been added to cover actual and expected price increases as
follows: 7% in the second half of 1975, 9% in 1976, and 8% thereafter.
48.       The beneficiaries' total capital investment programs and financing
plans during the project period (1976-79) in constant June 1975 prices are
summarized as follows:



- 16 -
1976-79
(US$ million)
CELPE COELBA COELCE TOTAL % OF TOTAL
CAPITAL INVESTMENT PROGRAMS /1
Construction expenditures:,
IBRD project                        41      55     22      118       39
Complementary works                 24      26     21      71        23
Other works                         29      39     12      80        27
Total construction expenditure    94     120     55     269        89
Interest during construction           -       2      2        4        1
Increase in net working capital        5       9     14      28        10
Total capital investment          99     131     71     301       100
FINANCING PLANS /1
Net internal cash generation          40      23     30       93       31
State and municipal contributions     36      55     32      123       41
Customer contributions in-aid          2       5      1        8        2
Total consumer direct
contribution                    78      83     63     224        74
Government grants                      -      16      -       16        5
Borrowings:
Proposed IBRD loan /2               13      19      7      39        13
Other loans                          8      13      1      22         8
Total financing                   99     131     71     299       100
/1   Price escalation not included.
77   Does not include:   ELETROBRAS:  US$0.6 million; 1980 disbursements:
US$1.8 million; and provision for price contingencies: US$8.5 million.
In addition, the proposed project includes a training program and consulting
services that will benefit the beneficiary companies and the power sector
as a whole. Such program and services will cost US$1.5 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$0.8 million to be financed out of the proposed loan.
Of the latter amount, ELETROBRAS would retain about US$0.5 million.
49.       About 74% on the average of the capital investment during the
period would be covered by resources contributed directly by the bene-
ficiaries' customers, consisting of net internal cash generation including
reinvestment of dividends, capital contributions made by the states and
municipalities with proceeds from the "sole tax" and customer contributions
in-aid for construction. COELBA expects to receive additional contributions



- 17 -
from the State of Bahia earmarked for rural service extensions which are not
a part of the Bank project. "Other loans" represent drawdowns of existing
loans for on-going works, and new loans to help finance works other than the
Bank project and which the beneficiaries are expected to obtain from their
respective state commercial banks. As noted, the cost estimates and financing
plans shown in paragraph 48 do not Include an allowance for price contingencies.
Funds for these contingencies would come principally from future tariff in-
creases, additional borrowings and the proposed Bank loan.
50.       In addition to the proposed Bank project, the beneficiaries' programs
for 1976-1979 include investments for US$71 million equivalent with a foreign
exchange component of about US$25 million. The beneficiaries currently plan to
finance these expenditures from local sources, but such local financing is ex-
pected to be replaced, in whole or in part, by additional external borrowings
that ELETROBRAS hopes to obtain through a co-financing arrangement with the
Bank's loan, similar to that arranged in December 1975 for the CSN Steel
project (R75 - 103/2). We believe that the Bank's association would allow
ELETROBRAS to obtain the required additional funds from the private interna-
tional market on terms more favorable than it could otherwise obtain. Fur-
thermore, the Bank association would help Brazil to enter for the first time
into the long-term institutional market. The parties concerned hope to
conclude the transaction later in 1976 and in due course we would seek the
approval of the Executive Directors for appropriate amendments to the Loan
Agreement.
Engineering and Project Execution
51.       Standard engineering phases of the project would be carried out by
the beneficiaries' engineering staff. Design of special parts of the project,
such as underground distribution facilities, would be carried out with the
assistance of consultants. The beneficiaries employ contractors for the
construction of new transmission and distribution lines and substations and
use their own forces for the rehabilitation of works in operation. Companhia
Auxiliar de Empresas Electricas Brasileiras (CAEEB), a Brazilian consulting
firm, will assist the three beneficiaries in preparing bidding documents,
publication and evaluation of bids, and in the grouping and inspection of the
equipment purchases.
52.       The procurement process for the project equipment started in February
1976 with the advertising and issuance of specifications; orders are expected
to be placed by November-December 1976 which would permit starting construction
in early 1977. The project is expected to be completed in December 1979.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       Procurement of the equipment to be financed by the Bank would be
through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guide-
lines. Manufacturers whose bids contain components manufactured in Brazil
equal to at least 50% of the value of the bid would be given a 15% margin of



- 18 -
preference or the applicable import duty, whichever is less. Brazilian sup-
pliers of the items included in the project are reasonably competitive and, as
stated in para. 47 above, are expected to win up to two-thirds of the value of
goods procured through international competitive bidding. The equipment compo-
nent of the project not financed under the proposed loan would be procured
locally under the beneficiaries' normal procedures which are satisfactory and
would not significantly affect the cost of the project.
54.       Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made against appropriate
documentation for 100% of foreign expenditures on imported goods or 100% of
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods and for 100% of the cost of
the consultant services and 100% of the foreign expenditures of the training
program. Because of the ongoing nature of investments in distribution, any
loan funds remaining undisbursed upon completion of the project would be
applied, after agreement with the Bank, to other works of a similar nature
included in the beneficiaries' program.
55.       Out of the US$49.2 million equivalent of the Bank loan to be used
for equipment purchases, US$46 million would be allotted initially to the
proposed beneficiaries in proportion to the equipment and materials require-
ments for their individual participation in the project, i.e., COELBA -
US$22.0 million, CELPE - US$15.5 million, and COELCE - US$8.5 million. The
balance of US$3.2 million, would be available to finance additional equipment
and materials required for the completion of the beneficiaries' projects on a
"first come-first served" basis. This procedure would permit the setting of
the ultimate amounts of each subloan on the basis of the beneficiaries'
demonstrated performance in carrying out their projects and would facilitate
the early full utilization of the loan.
Project Benefits and Rate of Return
56.       The project would help the three beneficiary state companies to
meet the demands for electric energy resulting from the recent rapid growth
of the industrial sector in the Northeast and the concommitant expansion of
commercial and residential power demand. An important contribution of this
project would be to bring the various agencies concerned to focus their
attention on how sector investments could benefit the widest range of ultimate
consumers. The pilot program for providing electricity service to the low-
income sector would be expanded beyond the project construction period by the
three companies and would serve as a model elsewhere in Brazil. In fact, the
experience gained while preparing this project resulted in the inclusion of a
similar program in the recently approved Parana state electricity distribution
project. The Bank's participation in this project would also result in insti-
tutional improvements, which would have a long-term beneficial effect on elec-
tric power distribution in the Northeast region. The project would stimulate
steps towards improving designs and reducing costs of rural installations to
make them more affordable, rationalizing regulations for financing line ex-
tensions and revising the tariff structure with the purpose of better allo-
cation of resources in the electric sector.



- 19 -
57.       The beneficiaries' 1976-79 distribution investment program is based
on the selection of the least-cost solution in all cases. The investment unit
cost per installed kVA are US$369, US$256, and US$454 for COELBA, CELPE and
COELCE, respectively, and are reasonable. COELBA's unit cost is higher than
CELPE's because of the higher cost of underground installations needed in
the city of Salvador. COELCE's unit cost is high because of the 5,000 km of
lines included in its program to integrate rural systems and to expand into
low density areas. In estimating the return on investment, the revenues from
sales of electric energy to the ultimate consumer have been used as a proxy
for the benefits attributable to the program. The cost attributable to the
program consists of investment, operation and maintenance expenditures, plus
the cost of power delivered in bulk to the beneficiaries' systems. Bulk
power costs have been evaluated at the long-term marginal cost of power
generation and transmission in the Northeast region. Based on these assump-
tions, the return on investment was calculated to be 16.5% for COELBA (43% of
the investment program), 18% for CELPE (35%) and 16% for COELCE (22%). The
return on investment for the combined three beneficiaries' programs would be
16.9%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Agreements
between the Bank and COELBA, COELCE and CELPE, the draft Shareholder Agree-
ments between the States of Bahia, Ceara, and Pernambuco and the Bank, the
draft supplemental letter on the beneficiary companies' rate of return, the
draft Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Features of the draft Loan, Guarantee, Project and Shareholder Agreements of
special interest are referred to in paragraphs 33, 34, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45
and 46 of this report.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



ANOM 1
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
BRAZlL             * 80C IAL INDICATORS DATA SHECT
LAND ARCA (THOU KHM)                 ...                   .... . ,.               .
B -  RACIL                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      8932.0                                       MIOST QECECNT
At0.           ,,                       1960       1970   EsTIMATE          MEXICO         URUGUAY        JAPAN 4
,  _;: ...... ;;...... ... ....             ,..........      ---        -  _--_ .__. 
GNP PCR CAPITA CUSS)                      3O0,0        30.0      7b0.0              720 .0      890 ,0     9570.0
....................
*OPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
------                  w@* ........ 
POPULATION (MIDYR. MILLION)              69.8       92.8       101.1                50.7        2,9       104.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SGUARE KM.                          0.0      1,0         12.0               26.0        16.D       280.0
P   SQUA  mg. AMaC. a.. * 
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND         4o.8         38.1       37.1                13.1        22.1        17.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE P*R THOUSAND          11.7         9.9        8.8                10.2         9.2         7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (ITHOU)         180.0      110.0          ,,               69.0        Q.0         13.1
LIFE ExPECTANCY At BIRTH (IRS)         56.0        59.7       61 4               bl,0       rU.3          71.1
GROSS REPRODUICTION RATE                2.6        2.6         2,5                 3.1        1.4         1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (t)
TOTAL                                   3.0        2,9         2.9                 3.5        1.3         1.0
URBAN                                   5.5        5.0         4.3                 5.5                    4.0
URBAN POPULATION (B Of TOTAL)            46.0       Sb,0        59.1 /a             59.0          ,,       84.
ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
I TO 14 YEARS                        43.0        R2,0        "17 ZL             46.0        28.0        24.0
15 TO 60 VEARS                        504 o        5.0        55.1 A              00         64 0        be8e
6S YEARS AND OVER                       3          3.0         3.24 00                        80          *.1
AGE DEPINDENCY RATIO                      0.9         0.8         h0                 1.0        o.6         0.5
ECONOMIC eEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.6         1.5         1.2                2.0         1.0        0.6
FAMILY PLINNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIvEC THOU)             ,.      2$0.0          ,,                55.5
USERS (s or MARRIEDONE                   ,,         3.6         ..                              *-     
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         22700.0     29600.0      37750.0           13000,0      1100.0     53300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE CX)           92.0       44.0           ,                40.0       17.0        19.0
JNEMPLOYED (I OF LABOR FORCE)              ,,          ,.         ..                   *        8.0         1.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
t OF PRIVATE INCOME REC    Bg.Y-
mmT     St   w   m OrI~IIS             28.0 L1     35.0 4E                        37.6 1a0 /a             14.2
DMBr 20 V0 EW8EO1           1          54.         62.0          ..               A32         4            7 b
IT     , 20 OF tM  D                    4 0         31.  C0 ,                      4.2         4.4 7       I I8
YMT 405 OF I      SUBEW                1 2.0 t     10.0                           I 10. 2     14.2        j 22,3
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
..............................
x ONNEO BY tOP 10 OF OWNERS               ,,       45.0          .,                  .           ,   
x OWNED BY SMALLEST 10l nHNERs             .,         1.S         ..                  .           ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
.__.........-...
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              2170.0      19SO.0      20.0 o/            1400.0       940.0        80.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON              3. 3300.0 j       2920.0 Zj          1570.0     5360          240.0
POPULOTION PER HOSPITAL 8EO             275.0      260.0          ,,              9S0.0       160.0        80,0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES   x OPr RfQUIREMENTS)        102.0      104.0       110.0              110.0       107.0       106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               61b0        64,0        69.0               65.0        96.0        76.0
.OF WHICH ANIMAL! AND PULSE         S8.0        39.0          ,.               2.0i        64.0        45.0
DEATH RATE   /THOU) AGES 1-4               ..          ..                            9.8        t.3         1.0
EDJCATTION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL.                      100.0        87.0        71.0              104.0        110.0      101.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       11.0       28.0        74.0               23.0       5.0         91.0
YEARS Of SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LeVEL)              13.0        13.0        13.0               12.0        12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENRDLLKENT
(S OF SECONDARY)                      19.0        17.0        18,0               24.0        21.0        20,0
ADULT LITERACY PATE (1)                  6b.0       68.0          ,,                76.0       91.0        99.0
4OUSING
"E;SONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                 ,,         3.0        1.1                 2.2          ,,        1,0
ICCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (1)                                  73,0 Li     67.0               61.0          ,,         5,0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
IX Of ALL DWELLINGS)                    4, s.0                53.0               5.0
RURAL; DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY 1                         ,,        8,0        11,0               28,0           ..
CONSUMPTION
...........
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           66.0       80.n       6b.0               276.0       346.0       951.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             7,0       25.0        29.0                25,0       42,0        85.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            328.0      487.0       544.0               566.0      762,0       3391.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 3.3        2,7         2.6                 3.1        7.2        18.9
S.............................................................................................................
SEE'NOTES AND DEFJNITIONS ON REVERSLr



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Uole- oths--iso noted, data for 1960 -efer to 1959-6i, fe- 1970 to 1968-70, and for Moa,t Recent Egtisa te to 1971-73.
J.pan h.. been aselected aS  n objecti-e County since the B-inlian Gove-net bies Shown p-rticular interest in Japan's dveIopsenta1 experience.a.             o
the two governen.te have conducted joint studies to identify poss.ible future ecomaic problesta of Brezil on the basis of the enperien.e in Japn..
BRAZIL                1960     /a  Ecoscssically active population.
1970    /s   Uowioslalty ective population;     /b   HoePital personinel;   /c  Ins ide only.
NOST RECENT EST3MATE:      Ia  1974,   lb  Ratio of population onder 15 and 65 sod over to total labor force;       Ic   Noepit.1 personnel,
I d Ins ide ;mely.
MEXICO                 1970    /s1964-66,      /b  Inside only.
URUGUAY               1970     Is  19b7.
R8, Nay 26, 1976
DRPINTTIONS OF SOC~IAL INDICATORS
Toal -  (total sraeae      oprsn      adae2coijas            ees                Population pr nursingpro        - Population divided by number of practicing
al-raC              rac     nsnaln        re    biladml                             and temal. grauat    nurses, "trained" or 'certified' nurses, snd
Agi.- M.ost r-eotestimate of agricultural area used temporarily or              auxciliary Personnel with training or experieooo.
permanently for crops, pasturex, market & kitchen gardens or to lie              Populationprhsia         e     PoPulation dielded by lncher of hospital beds
Gallon.                                                     availa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ble in p-u-bic ad Private, general and specialized hospital and
rehabilitation, centers; sexludes nursing hones and establishments for
GNP pecaiaCS          - GNP per capita estimates at market prices, calcu-            custodial and preventive care
lae  ysame conversion ,nthod eas World Bank Atlas (1972-74 basis).          Per capita sUpply of calories (% of requirements) - Computed fro. energy
equivalent of~ net food suppies av ailbe incomntry per capita per day;
.Opl:tioo    and vital tatistcs                                                      available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less exports,
.,.li.  Lid-y~~li      - A   OfJulY first: if not available,              and changes in stockj net Supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quanti-
average of twoeioai tlmates.                                                       ties used in food processing and losses in distribution; requrrements
were  stmted by FAO based on Physiological needs for normal activity
Pouaion decity -      fpe   4saek   -MNid-yea" population Per Square kilo-       andoh:asIithmanneidering enir,onmeantal temperature, body -.eghts, age and
motr lU  hectares orfftta   ae.Sex distributions of population, andl all-siog 10% for waste St house-
Popalation density -- pe -qae ka of agric. lanld - Compuited as above for            hold level.
agricultural ladony                                                              Per capita supply of Protein (grams Per day) - Protein content of per
Vital Statistics                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~capita net Supply of food per day; net suiPply Of food is definted as
Vital statistics                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~above; requirements for all co-ntries established by LIDDA E;conomic
Crude birth rt Per thouaamd - Annual live, births per tho-sas       of mid-          Research Services provide for a. minimum allowrance of 60 grams of total
year PoPulatiOn; ton-Year arithamtis averages ending in 1960 and 1970,             protein per day, and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which
and five-year averag   ending in 1975 for mosft recent estimeat.                   10 grams shouild be animal protein; these standards are loneIr than those
Cru,de dat.hr rts     thoaud -Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                 of 75 grams Of'total protein and 23 grams Of animal protein as a
popuatin;  en-yar  rtttioaverages ending in 1960 and 1970 and              average for the world, proposed by PAO in the Third World Food Survey.
flvee-year average ending in 19T75 for atoet resent aextimat,e.                  Per capita prti?      upyfa    aia1n         us       roenspl         ffo
Infant, motal.ityrateCthu       - Annual deaths of infants under one year of         deie     rmanimals and pu.lses in grams Per day.
ag Cprthuand liebrts                                                               ate  /thou,   es1-      Aninual deaths per thousand in age group
Life expectancya   birhCss       - Average number of years of life renaining                        childen in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for             malnutrition.
developing countries.
Gross reprouction rate    - Averge nimbor of live daughters a woman witli          Education
bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-           Adutdeno0etrai1 rmaysho                       - Enrollment of all ages as
Specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,               percentage Of prImary sehool-age POPUlaTion; includes children aged
1970 and 1975 for developing countries.                                            6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
POPuration gowth rte (%) -total - Compound aninual growth rates of Mid-              for countries with universal education, enrollment may exceed 100%
yearpoplaton  or 15-01960-70, and 1970 to moset re,cent Year.                 since sane pupils9 are below or above the official School age.
Population growth rate (%   - urba   - Computed like growth rate of total          Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary schoo     - Computed as aoe
population; dIfferent definitions of urban are,as may affect ...oPara-             secondary sducation requires at leaboryer            fap     oved;rmr
btliiy of data amng countries,                                                     instruction; provides general, vocational or teacher training
Urba POPuaon(       of total) - Ratio of urban to total pepolation;                  instructions for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence
diffeetdfintions of urban areas cay affect comparability of data                   courses are generally excluded.
amtong countries,                                                                Years of schooigL  provided (first and Second levels) - Total yea~rs of
Age sptructre-(eret)-Children (0-14 years), working-,age (15-64 Years),              uc;hooling; atscnaylel,vctonalI instructio               may be par-
an Meid~   Ears a-nd over) as percentages of mid-year population.           tially or completel   excluded.
Ag   eecec.ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to         Vocational enol,et(ofsc           day      Vctinlnttuon              icue
those of ages 15 through 6k.                               technical, ~~~~~indutstrIal or -other programs which operate independently or
Ecanomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and Over             as departiments of secondary institutions,
toathelabrfrei         age- O  ttoupof1-kyas                                         9~tr        ra(         Literate adults (able to read and write) as
Psiypan,ni,ng  acceptor cuuative, thou) - Comulati.ve number of                 Percentage       ta  adult population aged 15 yeas and over.
acceptors of birth-control devices uncder auspices of national family
planninge program  since inception.Hosn
Fami.ly pann     usr(%omarewmen) - Percentages of married                          Pe_rsons  rro      aver  e  - Average number of persotns per roan in
Meo  fcid-berin      age (1-I    er)wouebit-oto                 eie             ccuied dunr7enti         'ings in uxrban areas; dwellings exclude
to all married women in same age group,                                            non-permanent structures and unOoccupied parts.
foaeOcpielweliymwthuednte (                                                                                            )- Occupied conventional
Tota   laor  oe(thousand) -  conomically active persons, including              wtrfciie          aspcnag        ofllOcup nieddwellingsi.       Pie
armed forces and unemloyed but excluding housewives, students, etc.;              ceot      lcrct       %O    l   wlig)-c         onvientdelionaldeligswt
definntiona in various countries are not comparable,                               ectitynlvngqatsasprent Of total dwelings in urban
Lbrforce in tEiculturie     ) - Agricultural labor force (in farming,            adrrlaes
forestry,  am in   nfshi      ) as Percentage of total labor force.             Rural dwell             edt- 
Unlemployed (% Of labor force) - UnemPloyed aeusually defined as Persons            _rural  weIngs3 Lonly.i_-Ccptd saov                                   o
who are able and willing to take a job,    o    f a job on a given day,
remained out of a job, and seeking wort:.      - specified minimum period       Coca  pion
not exceeding one week; may not be co.sp-- i     betwaen countries due to       R           wf-.r-ere  r thou_T  - All types of receivers for radio broad-
di-fferent definitions of unemtployed ac.   uc     fdt,     ..       ly           cas.ts to genera  p.u=bc per thousand of PoPulation; excludes unlicensed
sent office statistics, sample surry,,     - mpuLaory --ns'ployment insurance,    receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio eets wee
in effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most
Income distribution  - Percentage of p,iut-'bl,n      (both in cash an-i kind)      counitries abolished licensing.
received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorno~- 20%, and poorest 4,0% of          Pa ssner cars(    er th~ou os     Passenger cars cumprise motor oars set-
households.                                                                       ing less thanl sight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
vehicles.
Distribution of land ownlership - Percen.tg ag   of land ownud by wealthiest       5f%eri:it ~w/r~u(-Annsual conmunption of industrial, can-
10% and poores   1%olad owners.                                                        i     ulc .           t  electricity in kilowatt hours per capita;
generally based on production data, without allowance, for losses in
Health and Nutrition                                                                grids but allowing for imports and eslport. of electricity.
Population per Physician   - Population divide;I by nuamber of pract,icl,g        Ne   row                      Prcpt       nua     osspini         iorm
physician     qalified f.om  a medical school at university level.                enstO      ro   dmsicpdcinplsetmotsf                         wprit



ANNEX I
IWWNMC DEVIWPNMDAT0TAPa                                                                   e   3   o
(In lmillions of U.S. dollars)                                                        P   g           f  1
Actual           Estimated      Prj9ete          Averax.s Annul Growth Ratee           As percent of GDY
1971      1972      193      19-74,-   1973     17980    1970-74     174-76      1976-80      1970       1974      1980
NATIONAL. ACCOUNTS /I                       Amounts in 1973 viLa.    and exchange rates
Gross domestic product                 62,710   69,608    77,891    85,369   88,357    121,700      11.0         4.2         7.0       100.6     100.6     100.7
Gains from termsa of trade ()           - 609    - 398       -       - 469    - 965      - 819                                         - .0.6    - 0.6     - 0.7
Gross domestic income                  62,101   69,010    77,891    84,900  105,278    120,881      11.0         3.7         7.1       100.0     100.0     100.0
Imports (inc. NFS)                      5,199    6,357     7,577    10,073    9,183     11,264      24.0        -5.6         5.7         7.6       11.9      9.3
Exprts (imnport capacity)               4,098    5,218     6,596     5,987    6,705     10,784      10.2        10.2        10.6         7.2        7.1      8.9
Resource gap                            1,101     1,139      981     4,066    2,478        480        ...0.4                                        4.8      0.4
Consumption                            50,437   54,547    61,529    66,578   69,020     91.586       9.7         3.0         6.5        82.2       78.4     75.8
investment                             12,765   15,602    17,343    22,408   20,910     29,775      22.0         0.5         7.1        18.2       26.4     24.6
Domestic savings                       11,664   14,463    16,362    18,322   18,432     29,295      16.4         6.7         8.9        17.8       21.6     24.2
National savings                       11,078    13,784   15,655    17,722    17,482    27,933      17.0         5.8         9.0        16.9       20.9      23.1
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                  Annual data at currant prices                                                         As percent of total
Imports
Capital goods                         1,241    1.734     2,143     3,108    3,569      7,522      31.0        14.3        16.7       42.8        24.8     36.1
Intermediate goods (ec.ul)            1,210    1,451     2,233     5,091    4,636      7,343      57.0        -5.4        12.6       35.2       40.6      35.3
Fuels and related materials             316      449       727     2,812     3,022     4,344      63.0         5.6         8.5        9.4        22.4     20.9
of which:   Petroleum                 251      344       605     2,495    2,650      3,711      71.0         4.3         8.1       6.9        19.9      17.8
Consumption goods                       478      598     1,089     1,519    1,221      1,610      42.0       -11.0         6.7       15.0        12.1      7.7
Total merchandise imports (fob)       3,245    4,232     6,192    12,530   12,448     20,819      50.0         1.9        12.5      100.0       100.0    100.0
Expprts
Primary products (excl. fuels)        2,315    3,063     4,718     5,606    6,987     13,142      25.0        17.0        14.4       84.8        70.4     61.2
Fuels and related materials              19        36       52        65        70       101      55.0         7.4         7.7                   0.8       0.5
of which:   Petroleum                   8        16       16        30        30        40        ...                              0.4         0.4       0.2
Manufactured goods                      570       892    1,429     2,297    2,793      8,231      55.0        22.5        24'.0      14.8        20.8     38.3
Total merchandise exports (fob)       2,904     3,991    6,199     7,968     9,850    21,474      31.0        18.6        17.7      100.0       100.0    100.0
Merchandise trade indices                                    1973-100
Export price index                       67        73      100       134       140       201      18.4         4.6         8.2
Import price index                       77       82       100       145       158       216      14.3         7.9         6.4
Terms of trade index                     87        89      100        93        88        93        .                       .
Export volume index                      71        88      100        96       113       172      10.0        13.7         8'.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR /2                   Annual data at 1973 prices and exchange rates                                                As percent of GDP
AgriCu1Ltu-                             8,850     9,212    9,535    10,346    10,760    13,995       6.8         4.5         5.5       14.6        15.1      14.3
Industry and mining                    15,875   18,066    20,776    22,480   23,222     32,805      12.0         4.2         7.7       32.7        32.8     33.6
Services                               25,554   28,532    32,140    35,620   36,860     50,777      11.1         4.3         7.0       52.7        52.1     52.1
Total                                  50,279   55,810    62,451    68,446    70,842    97,577      11.0         4.2         7.0      100.0       110.0     100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                             Annual data at 1973 prices and exchange rates
(Federal Government)
Current receipts                      6,168    7,316     8,629     9,757   10,399     15,540      16.9         6.2         9.0        9.4        11.5     12.8
Current expenditures                  3,553    3,558     4,227     4,577    5,032      7,107       8.5         9.1         6.9        5.9         5.4       5.9
Budgetary saving                      2,615     3,758    4,402     5,180    5,367      8,433      28.0         3.5        11.0        3.5         6.1       7.0
Other public saving                   3,393    3,669     4,832     5,825    6,348     10,510      15.5         9.0        10.7        5.0         6.9      8.7
Public sector fixed investment        6,404    8,037     8,705     9,667   10,344     15.198      15.8         7.5         8.0        9.8        11.4     12.6
LJS$ million
DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR                at 1973 prices and Li
INVESTMEN   PRtOGRAM                          1971-74  I,of Tot.1
Social Sectors                               4,504,        11.3
Agriculture                                     187         0.5
Industry and Mining                          6,060         15.2
Power                                         5,499        13.8
Transport and Coumunications                  7,384        18.6
Regional develcpment                          1,441         3.6
Other /3.                                    1471          37.0
Total expenditure                            39,787       100.0
FINANCING
Public sector savings                     33,674        84.i
Foreign borrowings (net)                   5.762         14.5
Domestic borrowings                           351        0.9
Total financing                           39,787       100.00
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER                     Total labortforce                   Value added Per worker (1970 prices &     exc. rates)
In millions                  I ftoa   1960-70       In U.S. dollars      % of average          1960-70
19760    1970    1960   -1970     Growth rate        1960       1970      1960    1970      Growth rate
Agriculture                             12.2     13.1    54.0     44.4          0.7           --         402      --        33-
Industry                                 3.0     5.3     13.3     18.0          5.8.          -       2,222       -        182          -
Service                                  7.4    11.1     32.7     37.6         4.1            --      1706        --       140          -
Total                                   22.6    29.5    100.0    10-0.0         3.1           --      1,220       --       100          -
not applicable
not available
A.  The nationsl accounts data were revised in September 1974 to reflect data obtained in the 1970 Census.          CDP in 1970 has been -evised opword
by about 20%, mainly in the industrial sector. Revisinon of the data for years prior to 1970 still have not been completed.
/2 Net domestic product at factor cost.
/3. Includes financial i-uestment.
May 14. 197S



ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS , EX75RNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                                      Page     4   of   h
(In millions of U.S. dollars 'at current prices)
Actual             B7ti,ted                                      Projected
1971      1972       1913       1974      1975       1976      1977        1978       1979       1980        1985
SUporY   inl 0Fp5YMC)                  3,175     4 272      6,596      8,568     10,614    12,116    14,001      16,422     19,507     23,274      52,488
4 028     5.205      7.577     14.585         36    15228     1           18683      20,965     240           ,24
Reoreblance .9'-i                     ~   -93            8      -6,017    -3,922     -3,112     26538     -2,261l     -1,458     -1,034       2,224
Interest (net)                        - 302     -  359 _ -    514     -  650    -1.273     -1,469    -1,747      -2,009     -2,272     -2,503      -3,053
Direct investment income              -166      -202       -220       .  240     -  270    -  304    -  342      -  384     - 432       - 486      - 877
Workers' remittance                       -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -          -           -          -
Current Transfers (not)                   14         5         27         23        40         50        50          50         50          50         50
Balance on current account            -1.307     -1.489      _        -_68!      -5 4       4.835     4 S        -4,69      -4.113     -3.974      -1 656
_ _  _      _                                                -         .       -=~~~~~=  --  L-
Private direct investment                168       318        940        845       940      1,035     1,135       1,275      1,435       1,615      2,908
Medium- and long-term loans
Disbursements                          835     1,099      1,376      1,800     2,025      2,226     2,443       2,654      3,004       3,397      6,218
-Repaments                           - 441     -  525     - 670      -  720    -   779    -  745,   -  793      - 868      -1.062     -1.282      -2,867
Net disbursements                        394        574       706      1,080      1,245     1,481     1,650       1,786      1,942       2,115      3,351
Financial credits
Disbursements                        1,442     3,396      3,151      5,017      3,819     4,509     5,054       5,258      5,386      5,587       1,524
-Repayments                          -  641    - 860      -1.058     -1.300    -1.579     -2,190    -2          -3.715     -4.130     -_4500      -4.404
Net disbursements                        801      2,536     2,093      3,717      2,240     2,319     2,107       1,543      1,255       1,080     -2,880
Capital transactiona n.e.i.              504        626       377        194         -         -          -          -          -           -          -
Change in reserves (--increase)       -  560     -2,565    -2,428      1,049      1,000        -         _           _      _  519      - 836      -1,723
GRANT AND LOAN COM1TMENTS                                                                                                      Actual               Estimated
1971        1972       1973       1974
DEBT ANB DEBT SERVICE
Medium- and long-term loans                                                        Public debt outstanding
IBRD                                   256       455        199                    and disbursed                4,122      5,509       6,496      9,096
IDB                                    133        180       250                  Interest on public debt          211        296         440        619
Governments                            199        249       270                  Repayment on public debt         608        758         953      1,081
Suppliers                              324        350       775                  Total public debt aervice(gross)819       1,054       1,393      1,700
Bonds                                   -          -         80                 Other debt service (grosql        607        820       1,175      1,570
Loans n.e.i.                           121        100       110                  Total debt service (net)Li     1,384      1,744       2,242      2,670
Total medium- and long-term loans      1,033      1,334     1,684         --
Burden on export earnings (7.)
EXTERNAL PuBLIC DEBT                    Actual debt outstanding on March 31. 1974    publi  debt      i                25.8        24.7       20.6        1.4
Disbursed only              Percent  Total debt service                43.6        40.8        34.0       31.2
IBRD                                                708                   10.0     TDS + Invest. Inc.                48.8       45.6        37.3       34.0
IDB                                                 2523.
Governments                                       1,830                    25.8    Average Terms on
Suppliers                                         1,008                    14.2
Bonds                                               149                    2.1     Int. as % prior year D0 & D        6.0         7.2        8.0         9.5
Financial credits                                 2,875                   40.5     Amort. as 7, prior year DO & D    17.4       18.4        17.3       16.6
Public debt n.e.i.                                  273                    3.8
Total public debt                                 7,095                   100.0    IBRD debt outs. & disbursed      347        484         647        872
IBRD as X public debt 0 & D        8.4         8.8       10.0         9.6
1BRD as X total debt 0 % D         5.2         5.0        5.1         5.0
IBRD as % public debt service      4.2         4.8        5.0         4.3
IBRD as % total debt service       2.5         2.9        2.9         2.7
/1 Gross debt service less interest earned on reserves.                                                                           May 14, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of April 30,1976)
Loan                                                          Amount Less   Undis-
No.    Year           Borrower                     Purpose   Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
Twenty-Four Loans Fully Disbursed                                 656.9
403    1965    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Estreito I                         Power         57.0        0.1
474 /1 1966    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Estreito II                        Power         39.0        0.7
565 /2 1968    Furnas - Centrals Eletricas
Porto Colombia                     Power         22.3        0.4
566    1968    Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Volta Grande              Power         26.6        0.6
677    1970    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Marimbondo                         Power         80.0        5.4
728    1971    Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil - Salto Osorio              Power         70.0       14.7
755    1971    Brazil                               Education       8.4       4.3
756    1971    Brazil                               Ports          45.0      34.3
757    1971    Superintendencia de Agua e
Esgotos da Capital                 Water Supply  22.0       12.5
758    1971    Companhia Metropolitana de           Pollution
Saneamento de Sao Paulo            Control       12.0        5.9
786    1971    Rede Ferroviaria Federal             Railways       46.0       5.2
797    1972    Companhia Siderurgica Nacional       Industry       64.5       7.1
812    1972    Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais                             Industry      63.0       11.0
813    1972    Brazil                               Roads          89.0       5.6
828    1972    Companhia Siderurgica Paulista       Industry       64.5       9.6
829    1972    Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Sao Simao                Power         60.0       15.6
853    1972    Brazil                               Land Settl.     6.7       6.0
/1   In two tranches.
/2   Undisbursed amount cancelled on May 14, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
Loan                                                          Amount Less   Undis-
No.     Year           Borrower                     Purpose   Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
854     1972    Brazil                              Roads           51.0        3.7
857     1972    Banco do Brasil                     Grain Storage   23.7        5.5
868     1972    Brazil                              Livestock       26.0        5.8
887     1973    LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade      Power           20.0       18.0
923     1973    Furnas Centrals Eletricas -
Itumbiara                         Power          125.0      105.4
924     1973    Brazil                              Agro-Indus.     54.0       38.7
1008    1974    Cia Hidro Eletricas do Sao
Francisco - Paulo Afonso IV       Power          81.0        81.0
1009    1974    Banco Nacional de Habitacao         Water Supply    36.0       34.5
1067    1974    Brazil                              Education       23.5       23.4
1074    1975    Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways       175.0      174.5
1075    1975    Brazil                              Roads          110.0      104.1
1151    1975    Companhia Siderurgica Nacional      Industry        95.0       95.0
1152    1975    Companhia Siderurgica Paulista      Industry        60.0       60.0
1153    1975    Brazil                              Agriculture     23.0       23.0
1171    1975    FEPASA-Ferrovia Paulista            Railways        75.0       75.0
1195 /1 1976    Brazil                              Rural Develop. 12.0        12.0
1206 /1 1976    Brazil                              Develop. Bank   85.0       85.0
1207 /1 1976    Brazil                              Feeder Rds.     55.0       55.0
Total                                           2,563.1 /2 1,138.6
Of which has been repaid to the Bank and others 295.3
Total now outstanding                           2,267.8
Amount Sold                        38.5
of which has been repaid          10.3            28.2
Total now held by Bank                          2,239.6
Total undisbursed                                           1,138.6
/1   Not effective as of April 30, 1976.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.   Loans of US$52.0 million for the
COPEL power distribution project and of US$50.00 million for a fertilizer
project were signed May 19, 1976. A loan of US$40.0 million for an agri-
culture research project was approved April 30, 1976.



ANNEX I I
Page 3 of 10
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF APRIL 30. 1976)
Year                                      Obligor                            Type of Business                                  Amount in U$ miLlion
Loans    Equity  Total
1957                           Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade        Electrical Equipment                               2.00      -      2.00
1958                           Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel              Pulp and Paper                                     1.20      -      1.20
1958                           D.L.R.Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.               Automotive Parts                                   0.45      -      0.45
1958                           Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                        Motor Vehicles                                     2.45      -      2.45
1959                           Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.   Cement                                             1.20      -      1.20
1959                           Champion Celulose, S.A.                       Pulp                                               4.00      -      4.00
1966/1968/
1972                           Acos Villares, S.A.                           Steel                                              8.00    1.93     9.93
1966/1969                      Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.            Pulp and Paper                                    4.06     3.13     7.19
1967/1972                      Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio do
Fertilizantes                               Fertilizers                                        8.22    3.03    11.25
1969                           Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                      Petrochemicals                                     5.50    2.88     8.38
1970                           Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio       Petrochemicals                                     5.50    2.88     8.38
1971                           Omiteno, S.A. Indostria e Comercio            Petrochemicals                                     4.60    1.44     6.04
1971                           Industria de Celulose Borregaard, S.A.        Pulp                                              4.90       -      4.90
1972/1975                      Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas        Cement                                            29.14    3.20    32.34
1973/1974                      Companhia Siderurgica da Cuanabara - COSIGUA  Steel                                            67.00    6.50     73.50
1973                           Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP      Capital Market Development                         5.00      -      5.00
1973                           Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos        Nickel Mining and Refining                        26.00   4.40     30.40
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.
1974                           Industrias Villares, S.A.                    Elevators and Industrial
Equipment                                        6.00      -      6.00
1974                           Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.              Textiles                                          31.00      -     31.00
1975                           Capuava Carbonos Industriais Ltd.             Carbon Black                                       6.18    1.08     7.26
1975                           Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                        Petrochemicals                                    10.00      -     10.00
Total Cross Commitments                                                                        232.40   30.47   262.87
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                         171.84    8.09   179.93
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                               60.56   22.38    82.94
Total Undisbursed                                                                               17.68    0.80    18.48



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of April 30, 1976)
There are now 32 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474   Estreito Hydroelectric Project:    US$57 and US$39 million loans
of February 26, 1965 and December 19, 1966; Effective Dates:
July 8, 1965 and June 1, 1967; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The project is completed and the loan is almost fully disbursed.
Equipment costs were substantially below estimates. The original
Closing Date was April 1, 1971.
566       Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project:    US$26.6 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Effective Date: February 27, 1969; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976. The project was delayed six months by
spillway foundation difficulties but progress has since been
satisfactory. The project was completed in September 1975 with
a cost overrun of US$138 million due to foundation problems and
cost increases in equipment. However, the project remains econ-
omically justified. The Closing Date of the loan was postponed a
second time to June 30, 1976, to permit payments to continue on
several purchases already placed. The original Closing Date was
January 31, 1975.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:    US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: May 31,
1977. Construction work is proceeding on schedule. The cost of
the project has increased by US$42 million, or 15% over the
original estimate, because of increased excavation and concrete
work, resulting from poor rock foundation, and increased equipment
prices. This has not significantly affected the economic justi-
fication of the project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Loan No.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:   US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1977.
The construction of the Salto Osorio hydroelectric plant is progress-
ing satisfactorily and the first two of the planned four generating
units are now in commercial operation. A cost overrun of about
US$127 million, due to increased equipment and construction costs,
is foreseen, but this does not significantly affect the economic
justification of the project. The cost overrun is being financed
by loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank. The construction
of the transmission system, delayed to allow required modifications,
is proceeding satisfactorily.
755       Education Project:   US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date:  October 28, 1971; Closing Date:   December 31, 1977.   Prog-
ress on the construction and equipping of the project schools is
now proceeding satisfactorily. However, the project implementation
is behind the original schedule due to initial delays in establish-
ing and staffing the project unit and because of subsequent changes
in project content. The original Closing Date was December 31, 1975.
756       Santos Port Project:   US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. Execution of
the project is now proceeding satisfactorily, although there have
been further delays and cost overruns which will be financed by the
Borrower. The Government has approved legislation which converted
DNPVN from a government agency to a public corporation, PORTOBRAS.
PORTOBRAS, with the assistance of management consultants, has been
improving port operations in Santos. The National Port Development
Study financed under the project is now completed.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project:   US$22 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30,
1977. The project suffered initial delays caused by the State of
Sao Paulo not furnishing the required counterpart funds, which are
now included in the state budget. The Government has consolidated
all the water and sewerage companies in the state into a single
company, SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new
company was concluded on December 18, 1974. Because of the re-
organization of the sector and of management problems which are
now resolved, the Closing Date, originally June 30, 1975, has



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Loan No.
been postponed to June 30 1977. Progress of the project is expected
to improve with new management of the company which took office
recently.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:    US$15 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
A review of'the original design resulted in its modification to ex-
clude the discharge of raw sewage and a related treatment facility.
As a result of the modifications in the project, the loan amount was
reduced to US$12 million. The Government has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies In the State into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company was
concluded December 18, 1974. The Description of the Project has
been slightly modified again because of changes in the Investment
Plan. Because of the reorganization of the sector and of management
problems which are now resolved, the Closing Date, originally June
30, 1975, has been postponed to June 30, 1977. Progress of the
project is expected to improve with new management which took office
recently.
786       Railway Project - MBR:   US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and equip-
ping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of
equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a change in the
location of the workshop resulting from the Government's decision to
build a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda. To allow additional time required for the purchase
of this equipment, the Closing Date, originally September 30, 1975,
was postponed to March 31, 1978.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
July 1, 1976. The latest cost estimate is US$736 million, an in-
crease of about 71.5% over the appraisal estimate due to design
evolution, unforeseen site works and increases in local construc-
tion costs. This cost increase will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now 80%
complete and is about eleven months behind the appraisal schedule.
812       USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:     US$63 million loan
of April 11, 1972; Effective Date: July 28, 1972; Closing Date:
June 1, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$975 million, an
increase of about 70% from the appraisal estimate due primarily
to design evolution and increases in local construction costs.
This cost increase will not significantly affect the economic
justification of the project. The project is 90% complete and is
about twelve months behind the original schedule. Implementation
of Stage III, which is not being financed by the Bank, is well under-
way. The original Closing Date was June 1, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Loan No.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:    US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Effective Date: December 4, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976. Construction works are more than 98% completed
but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated total contract
cost is about 2% above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility
studies and detailed engineering financed under the loan were
started later than planned, but are now completed at a cost
substantially below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements are
lagging behind the appraisal forecast, but have improved during
the past year.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: January 15, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$758
million, an increase of about 60% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will
not significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now 75% complete and is about nine months behind
the original schedule.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:    US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:    US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. COLONE has prepared revised farm development plans whose
credit component, to be financed by public financial institutions,
will be significantly higher than originally estimated, although
still low in comparison to other settlement projects. Administra-
tive delays in the release of public funds for farm credit and
COLONE working capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting
project staff delayed the start of project execution. Settlement,
however, has now begun and the project should be completed in 1978
as envisaged.
854       Fourth Highway Construction Project:    US$51 million loan of
August 4, 1972; Effective Date: March 21, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976. Construction is more than 75% completed but
behind schedule. However, disbursement is expected to be com-
pleted by the Closing Date. The estimated total contract cost
is 11% above the appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Loan No.
857       Grain Storage Project:   US$30 million loan of September 27, 1972;
Effective Date: January 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
After some initial difficulties with the appraisal of subprojects,
the project had been progressing satisfactorily. However, in April
1975 the Government adopted a national grain storage financing
program involving subsidized interest rates. Therefore, on
October 28, 1975, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to cancel the
uncommitted balance (about 20%) of the loan. Disbursement of the
loan is proceeding as scheduled.
868       Interim Second Livestock Project: IUS$26 million loan of December 19,
1972; Effective Date: May 24, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project is proceeding normally. The loan has been fully com-
mitted and is expected to be disbursed as scheduled.
887       Power Distribution Project:    US$20 million loan of April 16, 1973;
Effective Date: July 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Prin-
cipally due to difficuLties encountered in preparing bidding docu-
ments and delays in deliveries of equipment and materials, the
project is about two years behind schedule. Complete delivery and
installation of equipment and materials to be financed by the loan
will probably take until July 1977 and a postponement of the Closing
Date will be required.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:    US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Contracts for penstocks, turbines, and concrete and earth
works have been awarded. Commissioning of the first generating
unit is scheduled for March 1980, four months behind original
schedule due to delay in awarding of the civil works contracts.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:    US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. The Central Bank expects to complete commitment of project
funds by mid-1976.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:    US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. A Bank mission recently reviewed the progress
of the preparation and implementation of plans for resettlement of
the 9,700 families to be displaced by the Sobradinho reservoir.
Execution of these plans Is underway, and construction of new
towns to house the urban portion of the population has begun. The
rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses will be resettled in new villages
on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Loan No.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:   US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1977. The State Water Supply Company changed its name from Companhia
Mineira de Agua e Esgotos (COMAG) to Companhia de Saneamento de Minas
Gerais (COPASA-MG). The project is progressing on schedule and the
loan has been fully committed.
1067      Second Education Project:   US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution has started reasonably well, and is expected
to be completed by the target date. Project implementation units have
been established in all eight project states and these, together witl
the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment
studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan, are underway and
are expected to yield useful information for future sector investment
planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:   US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several low priority items have been
deleted or postponed. A second revision is now underway which
should further reduce the Plan to a more manageable size. These
revisions are not expected to affect significantly the items in-
cluded under Bank financing. The financial situation of the
Borrower deteriorated in 1975, in spite of higher revenues, because
of increased costs of materials and higher social charges. Pro-
curement is progressing reasonably well, although slower than
expected.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:   US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.   Contracts for
civil works for all 21 lots have now been awarded and construction
works are proceeding according to schedule.   Implementation of the
road maintenance component of the project is slightly delayed due
to protracted negotiations for the hiring of consultants.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:   US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Project is proceeding according to schedule.
Procurement for equipment is underway.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Loan No.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:    US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976;
Closing  Date:   June 30, 1980.  Project is proceeding according to
schedule. Procurement for equipment is underway.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:    US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. Construction of dikes and the
irrigation and drainage system for the Betume varzea has begun.
Bidding for most of the other civil works and equipment procure-
ment is underway. Preliminary estimates, prior to bid evalua-
tion, are that project costs might increase considerably over
the appraisal estimate due to partial design changes and more
rapid than expected increases in equipment and construction
prices and in costs of land expropriation. The emergency works
remain the least cost way to offset the effects on the project
area population of the hydroelectric developments upstream.
Nevertheless, further possible modifications in the design of
emergency and irrigation works are being studied by CODEVASF and
its consultants with a view to limiting cost increases.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):    US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Terms of reference
have been approved for the Transport Master Plan for Sao Paulo, and
for the technical assistance program intended to improve FEPASA's
operations, marketing and data processing systems. Procurement is
progressing reasonably well.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS.
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil.
Beneficiaries:       Companhia de Electricidade do Estado da Bahia '(COELBA)
Companhia de Electridade de Pernambuco (CELPE)
Companhia de Electricidade do Ceara (COELCE).
Amount:              US$50 million equivalent.
Terms:               Payable in 20 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace and
8.85% interest per annum.
Relending Terms:     Same terms as those for the Bank loan.
Project
Description:      The project is part of the program for the expansion of
the power subtransmission and distribution systems during
the years 1976 through 1979 of three public electric power
utilities in Northeast Brazil: Companhia de Eletricidade
do Estado da Bahia (COELBA), Companhia de Eletricidade de
Pernambuco (CELPE) and Companhia de Eletricidade do Ceara
(COELCE); it also includes training, studies and technical
assistance. ELETROBRAS will on-lend to the three utili-
ties the Bank loan proceeds except for the amount allo-
cated for training and consultants' services benefitting
the sector as a whole. The project includes: (i) COELBA:
installation of about 400 single circuit-km of 138 kV
lines, about 20 km of 69 kV underground cable, about 120
km of 34.5 kV lines, about 1,000 km of 13.8 kV lines and
about 1,200 km of low-tension circuits; construction,
expansion or improvement of four 138-69/13.8 kV sub-
stations providing an additional capacity of about 50 MVA,
eight 69-34.5/13.8 kV substations providing an additional
capacity of about 100 MVA and two 34.15/13.8 kV sub-
stations providing an additional capacity of about 10 MVA,
including addition of 230 MVA capacity in 13.8 kV/low-
tension distribution transformers; and installation of
about 123,700 meters and of control, protection and other



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
equipment; (ii) CELPE: installation of about 160 single
circuit-km of 69 kV lines, about 1,410 km of 13.8 kV lines
and about 1,120 km of low-tension circuits; construction,
expansion or improvement of twenty-six 69/13.8 kV sub-
stations providing an additional capacity of about 130
MVA, including addition of about 40 MVA capacity in 13.8
kV/low-tension distribution transformers; and installation
of about 113,000 meters and of control, protection and
other equipment; (iii) COELCE: installation of about 240
single circuit-km of 13.8 kV lines and about 1,100 km of
low-tension circuits; construction of six 69/13.8 kV
substations providing an additional capacity of about
140 MVA, including addition of about 60 MVA capacity in
13.8 kV/low-tension distribution transformers; and instal-
lation of about 72,700 meters and of control, protection,
radio communication and other equipment; (iv) Training,
studies and technical assistance program: training of
DNAEE staff and of the Project Companies' technical staff
in Brazil and abroad; 76 man-months of consultants' services
for such training, studies on tariff structures, a general
regulation of selection of system extensions and lower
cost design standards of distribution facilities in low
density areas, and technical assistance to the Project
Companies for procurement under international competitive
bidding.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Estimated Cost:      (In US$ million equivalent)
Local  Foreign    Total
A. Transmission, subtransmission
and distribution works
(i) COELBA
Equipment                          18.1    17.2     35.3
Labor, services, and other         13.3     1.5     14.8
Engineering and administration     4.5       .2      4.7
34.4     18.0     52.4
Physical contingency                1.5      .9      2.4
Price contingency                   7.6     3.9     11.5
Sub-total                       43.5     22.8     66.3
(ii) CELPE
Equipment                          14.9    12.9     27.8
Labor, services, and other          8.8     1.0      9.8
Engineering and administration      3.4      .2      3.6
26.0     13.4     39.4
Physical contingency                1.1      .7      1.8
Price contingency                   6.2     3.1      9.3
Sub-total                       33.3     17.2     50.5
(iii) COELCE
Equipment                          6.7      7.3     14.0
Labor, services, and other          5.6      .6      6.2
Engineering and administration      1.9      .1      2.0
13.6     7.6      21.2
Physical contingency                 .6      .4      1.0
Price contingency                   3.2     1.7      4.9
Sub-total                       17.4      9.7     27.1
Total works                     94.2     49.7    143.9
B.     ELETROBRAS
Training and consultants'
services                           .5      .6      1.1
Price contingencies                  .2      .2        .4
Sub-total                          .7      .8      1.5
Total project                    94.9    50.5    145.4



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
Financing Plan:      (In US$ million equivalent)
Net internal cash generation and contributions      95.4
IBRD loan                                           50.0
Total Project Cost                               145.4
Estimated
Disbursements:       (In US$ thousand equivalent)
Fiscal Year          Annually       Cumulative
77                10,000          10,000
78                18,000          28,000
79                15,000          43,000
80                 7,000          50,000
Procurement
Arrangement:         Equipment and materials to be financed by the recommended
Bank loan would be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Bank's Guidelines; the manu-
facturers whose bids contain components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the bid being
given a 15% margin of preference or the applicable import
duties, whichever is lower.
Technical
Assistance:          The project would provide a total of about 76 man-months
of consulting services for training, procurement and various
studies related to the sector.
Rate of Return:      17% for the three beneficiaries' overall investment
program.
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 1088-BR of June 10, 1976



I1BRD- 122 9
F. DERARREED RAFAF FAFACICA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3I.P E R NAM B 
AFRO EVA                      7~~~~p Au 
ARENA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D l JIDAROFFE"  E. V,-L... . ...
FDAANEIFAA  *~~~~~~~~'~          5          y     /         - -  -  --  c~~~~~~~~~~~4/i)   ,-A-:
ALOOF  ARIPT  4IROnF          -                                     PADLO\p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA 7 i[& O
D~~ ~DIOCNE                  r>~  "      SSIRJtsMtAB
Aij*TFFAF~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  w1N          ACN.   PT
S FEtED  P  ElATES  F  N  'F           /      - JIFAZEIFO  V RATIFA VERMELDO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D. 
'0   7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4  E0                         -   -   AND AESFTRAIT~~~~~~~~~~~~IEC
JA  -E   R FEA   CIUT*A      LADA
MANTEALEDDE              DCCV          CALMON ~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  APIQTUONILANOI
C  *RICAAR RASNEVES                              MUNOD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACJ NOA  NT N HAFUT 
1                                       ~~~~~~~ ~    ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~LENCOIS  IDAAV-AA  C MAN  EIA r~ ? SNIAIFADTI
OD AS ALM.k       CTEGjIP  StE lAE/A.
MIAIA DAE.  A AFA
toL                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BE IREFA SLAO
___ / ~~~~~~~C.-IA TORIA C EEDF-A                                            I
FS7N.  /  x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TA.G
(  '-~~~~~~S   ,,r                    CONOAIST4    P ASTERIS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~."0   E A  
1/-A,~~~~~~~PI VN                                                    -
PA  c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
COMPDRAN ASEUNHIADDCONSTRRICTION    DA TBAHMAL CREI DDENCNCTECI
-ASMSSO   STAENEUDDRI S  DTARNSGEEATNGSATON                        L-pd
'-'F-c  'F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  7,   k
23  C VA          2DMPI .E5A       yD AsieCH                1n'-






IBR D-12127
70            410  j                 40039\                                   380                   370                    360                    \UNE 1976
_  (   C E A R A                \.                          P A        R     A     I B A                                        0
FlTIMBAUBA  \. 
}   ,   .        )                             -< .,                                             /  T0 4~~~~~~-/ 
|* O RICURI                             X                                  5ERHA  1TO CAMPINA GRANDJ  SOM JARDIM  TEJCUAPA
TALNADA  FLORES  ~~~~~~~~~~~~         Nj~~~~         CARPINA    MRFR
-                                                                                                          S LOU<s aFLRESJ
80  /  PARNAMIRIM  SALGUEIRO                                         I                   VITORIADE  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4BOArAO  OLINDA   80~~~IREIR
S.                           a     E                                                          ]TOR[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rIND
PARN  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~*BEZERROS                                         JSAA           WRA    HS
y P           E R            N               /       >                  M       \ 3 U   C 0  PESOUEIRA        ESCADAPAM!A
RABROBOI     \ARCO VEROF                                 JARDIM                         A   /
SANTA MARIA OA B6A VISTA
-}*               ________TRANSMISSION LINES.  '                                                                            J   c
69 KV IN OPERATION            \3PAULO AFONSO6                                                           350
69 KV PROJECT
SUBSTATIONS:
RIO ~~~~o                  0     220169 KV CHESF                               A    L   A        G   QA       S
0     69/13 KV IN OPERRATION            *     
0     69/13 KV PROJECT
GERERATING STATIONS                 *          .                                        BRA Z I L           AEA OF AP
iou              A    ~~~~~~HYD RO                                   .
KILOMETERS            A     HYDRO UNDER CONSTRUCTION CHESF                    "        \-<                                          PERNAM U
STATE BOUNDARIES                                    \<                                         _   /t   , S b \UT H i BRASILIA
-*-     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                   / 
BRAZIL                                                                                                  4 . AM?ERICA
jTJ~       COMPANHIA       DE   ELECTRICIDADE      DE   PERNAMBUCO           The     sh<'n onh,somep d                            K j
CE LPE                                  Wotd endorsementhr'  /                                      t
Transmission   System                                           /                                       /1   A-
410                   400                   390                   30                    317






I B R 0 12128
4'10                      4190                      3'90                        36         JUNE 1976
_30                                                                            B R    A  Z I   L                     3L-
COMPANHIA DE ELECTRICIDADE DO CEARA
m                            ~~~~~COELCE
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
E \  /          PARAIPABA?                   ,
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAAU /ItAP                , URU
:   TIANGUA     1                   ITAPAGUE 1S L CURU        FORTALEZA
_40 E   f                                                           MA\ ST           R ITORANGUAPE
I~~~~~~~~~R
.   . BENEDITO g             I               /;llC~~~~~~~~ARAP\; 
_   :     /                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CANINDE  > 
(  1NOVO RUSSAS                                      |
t   |                                     O~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~UIXADA/   _4USS , ; '
)  OUEIXAR MORIM  ,      JUAZEIRO DE 0   N
FABARFADO /D
)                                                     FIG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UEREDO/C
k  t    \                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEN. POMPEUI        S
-6   CS             \            \                                       |   )JAGUARIBE                           60
*,TAU A                                 /       g
I           Ip!                                                 OROS^/        I OR         TRANSMISSION LINES
KICOMETERS I                                            SUSSUARAN                     220 KV CHESF
The bohndares  sh- wn on this map do  _t_ \6i9 KV                                                 IN   OPERATION
I   endorsmen  or acceptae by the                                                            69 KV  Under construction
World Bankdand  4s1aCEsatesD
___ __ ___ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __  _I__                                                  69  KV   PROGRAM
>AtARELMANrABEIRA       |     .,  a           SUBSTATIONS
AREA OP/                                                ,.-         Q \?   Sr  ASSARE  _  O  220/69 KV CHESF
MAP - g   o  7O                                                      6 \  \MONTE  *  69/13.8 KV IN OPERATION  70-
/   CEARAh  0  :                  \^N. OLINDA                              69/138 KV PROGRAM
R.  g  R  A  Z   I L  J  !                       \       NORTEJU AC IRO O               GENERATING STATIONS
ARARIPE      CRAT                             A    HYDRO
s  U T H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BABIA IARES                                       HYR
BRASILIA                               .i                       _          r THERMAL Under construction
~~~  ,*                              (      -..- ~~~~~~~~~~~STATE BOUNDARIES
A  M  ELR   I CA                                         \                         -*- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
3                                                     * v  P E R N  A M  B U  C O  Q  t   . THE SIX SUBSTATIONS 69113.8 kV TO BE FINANCED
PERNAM            BUC 0                               BY THE PROJECT, ARE ALL CONCENTRATED IN THE
FROM     ciTy OF FOR TALEZA.
401                             PAULO AFONSO          360



