CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1300 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Northeast Power Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA DE ELETRICIDADE DO
ESTADO DA BAHIA
Dated August 27, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 27, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and COMPANHIA DE ELETRICIDADE DO ESTADO DA BAHIA (hereinafter
called COELBA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween Centrais E16tricas Brasileiras S.A.-ELETROBRAS (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), on the terms and con-
ditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
inter alia that COELBA agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
COELBA, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be made available to COELBA on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS COELBA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "Expansion Program" means COELBA's expan-
sion program for its distribution facilities during the period
1976-1979, consisting of the following:
(i) installation of about 400 single circuit-km of
138 kV lines, about 350 km of 69 kV lines, about
1050 km of 34.5 kV lines, about 1980 km of 13.8 kV
and about 1300 km of low-tension circuit;
(ii) construction, expansion or improvement of four
138-69/13.8 kV substations providing an additional
capacity of about 50 MVA, ten 69-34.5/13.8 kV
substations providing an additional capacity of
about 130 MVA and four 34.15/13.8 kV substations
providing an additional capacity of about 15 MVA,
including addition of about 230 MVA capacity in 13.8
kV/low-tension distribution transformers; and
(iii) installation of about 123,700 meters and of con-
trol, protection and other equipment.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. COELBA shall carry out Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist COELBA in the procurement
of goods for the Project, COELBA shall utilize the procurement
consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) COELBA undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Bor-
rover against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by COELBA to replace or repair such goods.


﻿(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, COELBA shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for Part
A of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) COELBA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and work and procurement schedules for Part A of
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) COELBA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to recoi
the progress of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in Part A of the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and con-
struction sites included in Part A of the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part A of
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so relent
to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Cc) COELBA shall enable the Ban,k's representatives to exa-
mine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of COELBA and any relevant records and documents.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. COELBA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, COELBA shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. COELBA shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out Part A
of the Project and shall furnish, at the Bank's request, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to Part A of the Project.
Section 2.08. COELBA undertakes to carry out a program to
provide electricity services to low-income consumers, which shall
include the connection of such consumers' dwellings without charge
and the financing of the installation of minimum wiring facilities
within the households.
As used in this Section, the term "low-income consumers"
means such potential consumers as are living within COELBA's con-
cession area near existing low-tension distribution lines, and
who are not being served with electricity because of their inabil-
ity to pay for connection charges and household wiring.
Section 2.09. COELBA shall take or cause to be taken all rea-
sonable measures to ensure that Part A of the Project is carried
out with due regard to ecological and environmental factors.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.10. (a) COELBA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part
A of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) COELBA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by COELBA of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of COELBA
Section 3.01. COELBA shall at all times maintain its corpo-
rate existence and right to carry on its operations, and shall
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.02. COELBA shall operate and maintain its plants,
equipment and property, and from time to time make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. COELBA shall at all times carry on its opera-
tions, manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, and
plan the future expansion of its electric power system, all in
accordance with appropriate business, financial and public utility
practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management assisted by adequate competent staff.
Section 3.04. COELBA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate public utility practice.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. COELBA shall maintain records adequate to re-
flect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate ac-
counting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. COELBA shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by in-
dependent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than five
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of COELBA and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
COELBA shall: (i) obtain title to all goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower free and clear
of all encumbrances; and (ii) not sell or otherwise dispose of,
or permit the sale or disposal of, any of the property or assets
which shall be required for the efficient carrying on of its busi-
ness and undertaking, including Part A of the Project, unless


﻿-9-
COELBA shall first pay, or make adequate provision satisfactory
to the Bank for payment of, all of the proceeds of the Loan relent
to it by the Borrower which are then outstanding and unpaid; pro-
vided, however, that COELBA may sell or otherwise dispose of,
or permit the sale or disposal of, any property which shall have
become obsolete, worn out or unnecessary for use in its plants.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)  COELBA shall take all such action (including, in such
cases where automatic rate adjustments are not permitted, action
with respect to the filing, within a period of not more than five
months after the end of every calendar year, of appropriate appli-
cations in respect of rates) as shall be necessary or advisable to:
(i) cause COELBA's rates for the sale of electricity to be set
and maintained at such levels as will produce revenues, as pro-
vided by the legislation of the Guarantor in effect on the date
of this Agreement, sufficient to ensure the continued operation
of COELBA's business in accordance with appropriate financial
and public utility practices, using straight-line depreciation
which shall be not less than that based on the useful lives of
depreciable assets in operation; and (ii) enable the agency or
agencies of the Guarantor responsible for the setting and adjust-
ment of such rates to act promptly in respect thereof;
b    COELBA shall, as provided by the legislation of the
Guarantor, revalue its assets at least once every calendar year
and apply for the corresponding rate adjustments resulting there-
from; and


﻿- 10 -
(c) whenever it shall be necessary or advisable for COELBA
to receive transfers of funds from the Global Guarantee Fund to
supplement its revenues in order to achieve the objective set
forth in paragraph (a) of this Section, COELBA shall take all
necessary steps to maintain its eligibility to such transfers of
funds.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
COELBA shall not incur any debt (i) if, after the incurrence of
suuch debt, the debt of COELBA shall exceed 66-2/3% of the value
of its total remunerable investment; and (ii) with an original
term of less than eight years if at the time of such incurrence
the total outstanding principal of such debt (including the debt
proposed to be incurred but excluding any debt to be repaid out
of the proceeds thereof) shall exceed 5% of COELBA's total re-
munerable investment.
For the purposes of this Section:
(1) the term "debt" means any debt maturing by its terms
on demand (excluding accounts payable) or after one
year from the date on which it is originally incurred;
(2) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) on
the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is
drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan agree-
ment, and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing for such guarantee has been en-
tered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed
debt is outstanding;


﻿- 11 -
(3) the term "total remunerable investment" means the re-
munerable investment as such term is defined, on the
date of this Agreement, by Article 2 of Law No. 5655
dated May 20, 1971 of the Guarantor; and
(4) whenever it shall be necessary to value in terms of cur-
rency of the Guarantor debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prt-
vailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
COELBA shall not, until Part A of the Project shall have been com-
pleted, undertake, or permit to be undertaken on its behalf', any
major expansion project, other than its Expansion Program, unless
it has first furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that (i) such expansion project is economically justified;
(ii) COELBA has adequate financial resources for the carrying
out of such expansion project; and (iii) such expansion project
has been approved by DNAEE.
For the purposes of this Section, a "major expansion project"
shall be deemed to be a project or the acquisition of new assets,
the aggregate cost of which is in excess of the equivalent of
one per cent (1%) of COELBA's remunerable investment, as such
term is defined in Section 4.05 of this Agreement.


﻿-12-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect,
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 7.01 and 7.02 of the Loan
Agreement, on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes ef-
fective or on the date upon which the Bank dispatches to the Bor-
rower, the State and COELBA notice of its acceptance of the evi-
dence required pursuant to paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of COELBA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Bank shall promptly notify COELBA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
6145 (wUl)
For COELBA:
Companhia de Eletricidade
do Estado da Bahia
Rua da Belgica 2
Salvador, Bahia - Brazil


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:                Telex:
COELBA                        0711014 CEEB
Ealvador
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of COELBA may be taken or executed by its Pres-
ident or such other person or persons as he shall designate in
writing.
Section 6.03. COELBA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of COELBA, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by COELBA pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
COMPANHIA DE ELETRICIDADE DO ESTADO
DA BAHIA
By /s/ Wilson Rocha
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Carlos Faria Ribeiro
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Contracts for the purchase of goods shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (herein-
after called the Guidelines), on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to COELBA of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 17 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following two groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of COELBA and the Bank that such goods con-
tain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at
least 50% of the value of the complete goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes (including the merchant fleet renewal and port improvement
taxes) on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the
award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from


﻿- 18 -
group A after adding: (i) to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group B bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (A) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group B bid, or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price; and
(ii) to the ex-factory bid price of the domestically supplied goods
offered in each group B bid an amount equal to (A) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on
such goods if they originated from the same foreign country as
the goods included in a group B bid which enjoy the lowest customs
duties and other import taxes, or (B) 15% of the ex-factory price
of such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such
price. If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group B
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, COELBA shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a


﻿- 19 -
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, COELBA
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform COELBA and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the deliv-
ery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,


﻿- 20 -
COELBA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform COELBA and state the reasons for such determination.


