CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1300 BR
SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENT
(Northeast Power Distribution Project)
between
STATE OF BAHIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 27, 1976


﻿SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 27, 1976, between STATE OF BAHIA (here-
inafter called the State) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith (herein-
after called the Loan Agreement) between the Bank and Centrais
Eltricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS (hereinafter called the
Borrower), the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars
($50,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, in the Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith between
the Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and the Bank, and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado da Bahia
(hereinafter called COELBA), but only on condition that the State
agree to undertake certain obligations toward the Bank as herein-
after provided;
WHEREAS the State is the owner and holder of approximately
70% of the issued and outstanding voting shares of stock of
COELBA;
WHEREAS the State warrants and represents that it is autho-
rized under Law No. 1196 dated October 16, 1959 of the State to
undertake the obligations contained in this Agreement; and


﻿-2 -
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and into the Guarantee
Agreement with the Guarantor, has agreed to undertake the obliga-
tions hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿Section 1. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
4iLoan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
Section 2. The State shall (i) take all such action as shall
'!be necessary to enable COELBA to carry out Part A of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
Ipractices; and (ii) not take or cause or permit any of its agencies
to take any action which would prevent or interfere with the per-
- formance by COELBA of its covenants, agreements and obligations
contained in the Project Agreement.
Section 3. The State undertakes, whenever there is reasonable
cause to believe that the funds available to COELBA will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying
out of Part A of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide COELBA cr cause COELBA to be pro-
vided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
Section 4. Except as the Bank s%all otherwise agree, the
State shall reinvest in capital stock of COELBA all cash dividends
paid to the State by COELBA until at least the Closing Date.
Section 5. The State shall cause its agencies in charge of
urban development to render the necessary assistance to COELBA,
when requested by it, with respect to the carrying out of the
program referred to in Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement.


﻿Section 6. (a) The State shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement, the progress of Part A of
the Project and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
(b) The State shall promptly inform the Bank of any condi-
tion which interferes, or threatens to interfere with, the prog-
ress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan, or the performance by the State of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 7. This Agreement shall come into force and effect,
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 7.01 and T.02 of the Loan
Agreement, on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes ef-
fective or on the date upon which the Bank dispatches to the
Borrower, the State and COELBA notice of its acceptance of the
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to
the Loan Agreement.
Section 8. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the State thereunder shall terminate when the Loan Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall notify the State thereof.
Section 9. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,


﻿cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
4 after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the State:
Governo do Estado da Bahia
Secretaria de Estado das Minas e Energia
Pallcio da Aclamagao
Av. Sete de Setembro 281
Salvador, Bahia - Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
Secretaria das Minas               0711245
e Energia
Salvador, Brazil
Section 10. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the State may be taken or executed by the
Secretario das Minas e Energia or such other person or persons as
he shall designate in writing.


﻿Section 11. The State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signa-
ture of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the State,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted
to be taken or executed by the State pursuant to any of the pro-
visions of this Agreement.
Section 12. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
STATE OF BAHIA
By /s/ Wilson Rocha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 1sf Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


