Document of
FILE copy                    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2053-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
May 26, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 3, 1977)
Currency Unit                         Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                                  Cr$13.65
Cr$1                                  us$.0732
Cr$1,000                              US$73.26
Cr$1,000,000                          US$73,260
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CENAFOR             National Center for Vocational Training
CNRH                National Center for Human Resources
DNMO                National Manpower Department
EMBRATER            Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Company
EMATER              State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
Company
FUNDACENTRO         National Foundation for Occupational Safety,
Hygiene and Medicine
ILO                 International Labor Organization
PIPMO               Intensive Program for Manpower Training
SENAC               National Service for Commercial Apprenticeship
SENAI               National Service for Industrial Apprenticeship
SENAR               National Service for Rural Training
SINE                National Employment System
UNDP                United Nations Development Programme
FINANCIAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(i)
BRAZIL
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:             US$32 million equivalent
Terms:              Payable in 17 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace, at
8.2% interest per annum.
Project
Description:      The project consists of the construction and/or furnishing
and equipping of industrial training centers, commercial
training centers, hotel training schools, occupational
safety and health training centers, and rural mobile train-
ing units; staff training for instructors, supervisors and
administrators; preparation of instructional material;
technical assistance in the form of specialists' services
and fellowships; manpower studies; and creation and staffing
of the Project Unit.
Estimated Cost:                                          -------(US$ Millions)-------
Local  Foreign   Total   %
Industrial Training                  19.63    3.16   22.79   24.6
Hotel and Commercial Training        17.46    1.60   19.06   20.6
Rural Training                        8.99    5.10   14.09   15.2
Occupational Safety/
Health Training                     4.13    1.18    5.31    5.7
Employment Information and
Services Training                   1.22    0.38    1.60    1.7
Ministry of Labor                     3.24    0.33    3.57    3.9
Base Cost Estimates                  54.67   11.75   66.42   71.8
Physical Contingencies (11.9%)        6.49    1.42    7.91    8.6
Price Contingencies (24.4%)          14.91    3.27   18.18   19.6
Total Project Cost                   76.07   16.44   92.51  100.0
This document has a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tho performance
of their officl duties. Its contents mAy not otherwise be disclod without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:                                    US$ Million
Ministry of Labor)
SENAI             )              59.0
SENAR
UNDP                               1.5
IBRD                             32.0
92.5
Estimated
Disbursements:                     ----US$ Million by Calendar Year----
1978    1979     1980    1981    1982
Annually          2.2    12.0    12.4      3.8     1.6
Cumulative        2.2    14.2    26.6     30.4    32.0
Procurement
Arrangements:      All civil works contracts expected to exceed US$3.0 million
and equipment contracts (except for furniture and vehicles)
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Civil
works contracts for lesser amounts and all contracts for
furniture and vehicles would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. However, furniture and
equipment which cannot be grouped into packages of at
least US$50,000 may be purchased in accordance with local
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. The total
value of items purchased in this manner shall not exceed
US$3,800,000 (equivalent to about 15% of the total esti-
mated value of furniture and equipment). Domestic manu-
facturers of furniture and equipment (defined under
Brazilian law as those whose bids contain components
manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the total
bid) would be allowed a preferential margin in bid
evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f. price or the prevailing
tariff, whichever is lower.
Technical
Assistance:        The project would include the following technical assistance
(Annex 14): (a) About 9 man-years of international special-
ists' services, 1 man-year of international fellowships and
4 man-years of fellowships to other Latin American countries
to assist SENAR in establishing its rural mobile training
programs (complementing two man-years of assistance presently
being provided by ILO under UNDP financing); (b) about 5.5
man-years of international specialists' services and 10.5
man-years of international fellowships to assist FUNDACENTRO
expand the occupational safety and health training programs;



(iii)
(c) about 4 man-years of international specialists'
services and 7 man-years of fellowships to assist SINE in
expanding its employment information and placement
services, and 6.8 man-years of international fellowships
and US$60,000 for a seminar on employment services;
(d) about 14 man-years of national specialists' services
and 2.5 man-years of international fellowships to assist
the Secretariat of Manpower in coordinating vocational
training at the national level; (e) about 4.0 man-years
of local specialists for the evaluation of SENAI's indi-
vidualized instructional methodology in industrial train-
ing; and (f) about 2.5 man-years of international fellow-
ships for training the directors of SENAC project hotel
schools and commercial training centers.
Rate of Return:      The economic rate of return cannot be calculated for the
project as a whole. It is estimated at 26% for the occu-
pational safety component, which represents 6% of the total
project cost.
Completion Date:     Project completion expected June 30, 1982.
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 1549a-BR dated May 26, 1977.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$32 million to
help finance a vocational training project. The loan would be for 17 years,
including 3-1/2 years of grace with interest at 8.20% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (1267a-BR), dated
January 26, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 8,
1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.        The late 1960s and early 1970s were years of remarkable economic
growth and development for Brazil. The 10% average annual rate of growth in
GDP during this period was accompanied by a strong balance of payments perfor-
mance. The dollar value of exports rose by 300% from 1967-1973 and a process
of export diversification significantly reduced Brazil's dependence upon
coffee as the single primary source of foreign exchange earnings. At the same
time, inflation was brought progressively under control. During the early
1970s prices rose at less than 20% per annum on average -- a considerable
improvement upon the inflation of a decade earlier. The crawling peg exchange
rate combined with widespread monetary correction and indexation minimized the
distortions which often accompany inflation (although the indexing also tends
to perpetuate inflation).
4.        The world economic crisis of 1974 marked a turning point in the
recent economic performance of Brazil. Although growth continued at a strong
9.5% in that year, it proved impossible to maintain the good balance-of-
payments performance that had accompanied growth in previous years. The
continuation of expansionary policies during 1974 in the context of a sharp
deterioration in the terms of trade resulted in a trade deficit amounting to
US$4.7 billion. The elimination of that deficit, and the reestablishment
of the previous near equilibrium in merchandise trade has been a major
objective of economic policy since that time and continues to be a major
policy objective today.
1/   This section is reprinted, with minor updating, from the President's
Report for the Valefertil Phosphate Fertilizer Project (No. P-2004a-BR),
dated April 13, 1977.



- 2 -
5.        Growth since 1974 has been deeply affected by balance-of-payments
constraints. In 1975 GDP increased by only 4% and the trade deficit was
reduced to US$3.5 billion. Unaccustomed to such a relatively low growth rate,
however, the Government feared that Brazil might be heading for a recession
and once again adopted more expansionary policies towards the end of 1975. As
a result of these policies, and notwithstanding subsequent measures introduced
during the course of 1976 to control the situation, growth last year reached
8.8%. It is remarkable that despite such a high rate of GDP growth, the trade
deficit was reduced further to US$2 billion. This was due to a rapid 17%
growth in export earnings while imports were practically unchanged from the
previous year, following the exceptionally high level of imports in previous
years and the increasing effectiveness of the Government's import-substitution
program.
6.        The acceleration of growth in 1976 was not without its cost, however.
The high level of aggregate demand associated with the Government's expan-
sionary policies in late 1975 contributed significantly to higher inflation.
Domestic prices rose by 46% in 1976 compared with 28% in the previous year.
This was a disturbing departure from the much lower levels of inflation that
had characterized the early 1970s. The Government is concerned that prices
do not get out of hand and control of inflation has now been adopted as a
major policy objective alongside control of the balance of payments.
7.        During the course of 1976, measures were introduced on a number of
fronts to curb inflationary pressures. Half way through the year the official
wage guidelines were modified in such a way as to reduce wage increases below
the current rate of inflation. In the field of monetary policy, commercial
bank reserve requirements were progressively raised from 27% to the legal
maximum of 35%, and the Central Bank's rediscount rate was raised from 22% to
28%. Stiffer terms were decreed for installment credit and for real estate
credit, and there was an upward shift in the overall interest rate structure.
In response to these quite stringent measures inflation abated in the final
quarter of the year to a rate equivalent to some 30% on an annual basis.
Whether or not the Government will continue to make headway against inflation
during 1977 will depend in large measure upon its success in controlling the
expansion of money and credit.
8.        Fiscal policy is yet another area in which the Government has
announced measures designed to curb inflation. Plans have been drawn up to
reduce the gap between public sector investment and public sector savings
by some Cr$44 billion (in 1977 prices) -- equivalent to about 2.2% of GDP.
Measures to achieve this goal include the limitation of wage increases in 1977
to 30% for federal government employees. Strict controls are also being
imposed on the hiring of additional personnel. A number of subsidies have
been eliminated or reduced. In addition, the investment programs of state
enterprises are to be closely controlled, and the savings of such enterprises
will be increased by raising tariffs.



9.        The Government recognizes the need for growth to be moderated in
the next two or three years if inflation is to be kept under control, the
balance of payments is to be further improved and a sound basis for longer-
term growth is to be established. In keeping with this view, it is projected
that growth may be in the order of 5% in 1977 and may average no more than 6%
during the remaining years of the decade. Beyond that, however, there is
every indication that Brazil has the potential to sustain high levels of growth
similar to those in the past provided that the present difficulties can be
overcome and provided that sound economic policies are consistently pursued.
In this respect the Government's development strategy provides a sound frame-
work for future development.
10.       The second National Development Plan (1975-79) was published in the
wake of the world petroleum crisis and incorporates a sectoral development
strategy which focuses sharply upon relieving Brazil's balance-of-payments
constraints in the longer term. The export potential of agriculture has
received explicit recognition in the development plan and the results achieved
during the last several years (particularly in soya production) justify the
priority given to this sector. Agriculture constitutes a vehicle for raising
the living standards of the rural poor and for developing the vast frontier
lands of Brazil's interior. In the case of industry, sophisticated incentive
schemes have been introduced to encourage exports. The major thrust of
Brazil's industrial development strategy, however, concentrates upon massive
import-substitution programs in steel, non-ferrous metals, petrochemicals,
fertilizers and capital goods. Brazil aims at self-sufficiency in many of
these products by-the early 1980s. Beyond that point these same industries
may develop a good export potential.
11.       Despite its previous impressive growth performance and vast future
potential, Brazil is still a country wih a very unequal distribution of income
and extensive absolute poverty. The present Government acknowledges the coun-
try's income distribution problem and accepts responsibility for its allevi-
ation. While, like the previous Government, it believes that a high rate of
growth is necessary to increase the incomes of the poor, it does not believe
that the "trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and has formulated
a new policy which could be labeled as "redistribution along with growth." To
implement this policy in addition to pursuing some of the social programs ini-
tiated by its predecessor, the Government is taking new measures in three
broad areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social services; and
(c) wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended to have a
favorable, albeit marginal, impact on income distribution.
12.       As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural devel-
opment in the Northeast. The program envisages investment expenditures of
about US$2.5 billion during 1975-79 and is designed to raise the productivity
and incomes of small farmers through, inter alia, formulation and execution of
integrated rural development projects, which are likely in some cases to
include changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based on the assumption that
the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous whole and, therefore,



- 4 -
standardized programs are inadequate. The Government identified 28 sub-
regions covering large portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds
would be used initially. The Rio Grande do Norte project (Ln. 1195-BR approved
in December 1975) was one of the first under POLONORDESTE.
13.       Active consideration is being given to a major modification in the
state value-added tax system to redistribute fiscal resources from the richer
to the poorer states, in order to give the latter the fiscal resources which
they badly need to accelerate social programs, particularly in education. In
the area of social services, the Government has created a new Ministry of
Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs and to
extend these programs to a larger share of the population. The Government is
also strengthening the nutrition program which, under the previous Government,
got off to a slow start. Greater emphasis is being given by the National
Housing Bank to low-income housing, the beneficiaries of which will enjoy
better financial terms than in the past. The Housing Bank is also developing
a site and services program to encourage construction of self-help housing
by families that cannot afford builder-constructed units. In agriculture,
the recently reorganized rural extension agency will expand and strengthen
its activities directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer; and the
new federal agriculture research institution is defining its program to
include a selection of crops and farming systems which will ensure that
small-scale farms benefit from research efforts. Overall, the Government's
public investment program for 1975-77 gives high priority to education,
health, agriculture and regional development, which together account for about
30% of total public investment. Finally, the Government intends to pursue a
more liberal wage policy to maintain the real value of the minimum wage and
improve personal income distribution. For this purpose it revised the formula
governing the adjustment of the union wage scale so that the real minimum wage
was increased by 6.5% in 1975 and by 3% in 1976. While in 1977 the Government
is restricting wage increases as part of a policy package designed to control
overall demand and to combat inflation, this does not signify any basic change
in the Government's longer term goal of improving income distribution.
14.       In order to achieve the twin goals of high growth and an improved
distribution of income, Brazil will continue to require large inflows of
capital in the medium-term future. These inflows should be less than in the
recent past, however. Compared with a US$6 billion three-year average for
1974-76, it is estimated that the annual net inflow of medium- and long-term
capital (that is, direct foreign investment and net disbursements from offi-
cial and private sources) may be in the order of US$4.5 billion for 1977-80.
15.       At December 31, 1976, Brazil's public external debt amounted to
almost US$15 billion and the public debt service ratio for 1976 is estimated
at about 18%. This is somewhat higher than the 15% average public debt service
ratio estimated for the first half of the seventies and reflects a higher
proportion of medium-term financial credits within the overall debt structure.
Total external debt (both public and private) registered by the Central Bank
at end 1976 amounted to US$26 billion and rather more than two thirds of this
debt (some US$18 billion) was in the form of financial credits. The debt



- 5 -
service ratio on total external debt during 1976 was about 46% compared with
an average of 41% during the early seventies. However, net foreign exchange
reserves at the end of 1976 stood at US$6.7 billion, equivalent to some six
months imports of goods and non-factor services and sufficient to cover
nearly one quarter of the total outstanding external debt. Despite Brazil's
heavy debt service burden the substantial level of foreign exchange reserves
ensure that the country will have the liquidity to meet its debt service
obligations in the short term. The debt service ratio is projected to fall
in 1977 because of exceptionally high export revenues from coffee and soya,
but it is likely to reach 45% again by 1980. Subsequently, a fall to 30% or
less by 1985 is projected assuming that Brazil can increase its exports by
an average of 17% per annum and that the average maturities of new financial
credits gradually improve from six to eight years. The country's record of
financial and economic management provides grounds for confidence in the
maintenance of creditworthiness over the longer run. Nevertheless, there can
be no doubt that very careful management of the external accounts will be
necessary in the next two to three years.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
16.       By April 30, 1977 the Bank had approved 70 loans for Brazil, amount-
ing to US$3,155.5 million, of which 39 were not fully disbursed. During
FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing to
an average of US$136 million per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225 million
in FY74, US$248 million in FY75 and US$202 million in FY76. In the first half
of FY77 US$97.1 million was disbursed. The decline in disbursements in FY76
and FY77 is due primarily to the reduced level of lending in FY73-74. Dis-
bursements are expected to increase during the next few years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of April 30, 1977 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans
were approved totalling US$437 million, including three loans totalling
US$192 million for the Stage II expansion of the steel industry. In FY73-74
nine loans were approved amounting to US$429.7 million; in FY75 five loans
totalling US$426.5 million; and in FY76 ten loans totalling US$498 million
were approved. So far in FY77 six loans have been approved: US$40 million
for a second Minas Gerais water supply and sewerage project, US$83 million for
a second agro-industries credit project, US$82 million for power transmission
in the south of Brazil, US$42 million for an integrated rural development
project in the State of Minas Gerais, US$64 million for a nitrogen fertilizer
project, and US$82 million for a phosphate fertilizer project. We are also
working actively with the Brazilians on the preparation of a sewage treatment
project for the metropolitan area of Sao Paulo and other urban projects; an
agricultural extension project; several rural development projects in the
Northeast; a power distribution project in the Southeast; and a highways
maintenance and rehabilitation project.



- 6 -
18.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1976, amounting to US$15 billion, the Bank held about 8%. The Bank's
share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present trends continue
as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt outstanding would
increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt service would rise
in 1980 to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public and private)
external debt service would remain at the present level of 2.8%.
19.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of April 30, 1977, IFC had made 31 commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$307.2 million, of which US$32.6 million had been cancelled,
US$24.4 million repaid and US$136.9 million sold. Of the balance of US$113.38
million, US$88.9 million represented loans and US$24.5 million equity. A sum-
mary of IFC's investments up to April 30, 1977 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
20.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. An important lending objective in Brazil is to support the
effort of the Government to identify and develop projects designed to increase
productivity and incomes of the lowest income segment of the population, to
broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to alleviate
poverty. The proposed vocational training project is addressed largely to
this objective. The recently approved loans for nutrition research and devel-
opment, agricultural research, Rio Grande do Norte and Minas Gerais integrated
rural development, and Lower Sao Francisco Polders projects were all designed
to assist low-income groups in rural areas. Government authorities, with the
collaboration of Bank staff, are making a particular effort to help Brazil
develop additional integrated rural development projects of this type. The
recently approved water supply and sewerage project for the State of Minas
Gerais was designed particularly to help reach low-income groups in towns and
cities as would proposed sites and services and water supply and pollution
control projects.
21.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform designed to develop rational policies and pro-
cedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and help maximize public
savings and ensure that they are used economically. The proposed project will
contribute towards further strengthening the National Training System and the
Ministry of Labor. The institution-building objective has also been important
in Bank assistance to the transportation sector where emphasis has been given
to the rational selection of investments, the strengthening of railway opera-
tions, and the improvement of the railways' financial performance. Loans for
electric power, industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and exten-
sion, and urban development also have important institution-building objectives.
22.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's



export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic policy.
Bank support of fertilizer projects is assisting Brazil to substitute imports
with large-scale efficient domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments
position. Bank lending for agro-industries in the Center and South of Brazil
has also supported this objective and much of the Bank-assisted investment in
the transport sector--railways, ports and highways--is designed to facilitate
the smooth and economical flow of exports. Also, support of the steel expan-
sion program is helping Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional
import commodity which can be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the
country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore and the scale of its internal
markets.
23.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence
in Brazil and encourages them to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power, steel and fertilizer, the Bank parti-
cipation is helping Brazil obtain additional bilateral resources in greater
amounts and on more favorable terms.
PART III - VOCATIONAL TRAINING IN BRAZIL
Employment
24.       Rapid growth in employment was a feature of Brazilian economic
development in the 1970-75 period, during which the employed adult labor
force increased by 5.2 million (about 1 million per year), 1.2 million of
whom were employed in agriculture and 4.0 million in non-agricultural activ-
ities. Overall industrial employment increased at an annual rate of 5.5%.
In commerce and services the annual growth rate was 4.9%. However, employment
in agriculture increased by only 1.6% per annum. The overall annual growth
for all sectors was 3.7%. The period was characterized by: (a) rapid growth
in employment in all regions, but particularly in Sao Paulo and the Northeast;
(b) a shift of labor out of agriculture; (c) rapid urbanization in all regions;
(d) a rise in the share of the urban labor force engaged in informal activ-
ities; and (e) an increase in the inequality in the distribution of urban wage
income. About 55% of the total employed were wage earners in 1975, the remain-
ing 45% being self-employed. In 1975, the Brazilian labor force amounted to
34.1 million, of whom 32.4 million were employed. Of the total labor force,
38% were employed in agriculture, 19% in industry, 38% in services, and 5%
were unemployed. The labor force is expected to increase at a rate of 3.1% in



- 8 -
the foreseeable future, reflecting the high population growth rate (2.8%
annually), the even higher urban population growth rate (4.3%), and the young
age structure (70% under 25 years) of the population. The average number of
new workers entering the labor force during 1976-85 is expected to be about
1.2 million per year, one-third in the North, Northeast and Center-West
regions and two-thirds in the South and Southeast regions.
25.       Although the Brazilian educational system has been expanding very
rapidly and at present 86% of the primary age group (ages 7-14) is in school,
80% of the labor force has not completed primary education. According to the
latest census (1970), about 36% of the labor force is illiterate (19% in the
urban sector and 50-60% in the agricultural sector). The low educational
attainment is accompanied by an absence of technical preparation which in turn
restricts the individual's use of modern techniques in agriculture, industry
and commerce. This results in part from the traditional emphasis of the
Brazilian education system on academic subjects. Consequently, there are
serious shortages of adequately trained manpower for the major sectors of the
economy, constraining further development in all sectors. The shortage of
skilled workers has led to very sharp increases in the wages paid to this
group, significantly skewing the wage structure. During the 1967-75 period,
although real industrial wages improved overall by 27%, employees earning up
to four times the minimum wage received a real average annual increase of only
2.2%, but the increase was 8.9% for those earning more than 70 times the
minimum wage.
Sectoral Manpower Requirements
26.       Although the agricultural labor force is expected to grow only
slightly, it is a large group (13 million) containing many unskilled workers.
The Government has estimated that its rural programs require training about
650,000 agricultural workers per year during 1975-85, of which about 75% will
be engaged directly in production of crops and livestock, and 25% in rural
artisan activities such as agricultural machine operation, rural masonry,
carpentry, electricity and agricultural mechanics. In addition, about 40,000
self-employed farmers will need training in management skills relating to
credit schemes and marketing. These overall needs compare with the present
capacity of the rural training agencies of 114,000 trained workers per year.
27.       Overall growth in industrial employment is expected to increase by
220,000 a year through 1985, with the greatest increases in steel, chemicals,
fertilizers, plastics, transport equipment, and other mechanical and metal-
lurgical products. Some of these will be producing for the export market
and others substituting for imports. Training requirements for new entrants
(including both workers in new jobs and those replacing workers leaving the
labor force) could reach 400,000 annually during this period, with the main
training needs for technicians and repairmen in the mechanical and electrical
trades. The present capacity of the National Service for Industrial Appren-
ticeship (SENAI) is 100,000 new entrants per year. SENAI also has the capac-
ity for upgrading the skills of 190,000 existing workers annually. In addi-
tion, about 140,000 workers are upgraded through in-plant programs.



- 9 -
28.       In the service sector, about 750,000 new jobs are expected to be
created annually through 1985. It is projected that the tourism subsector
will experience a twofold increase in employment by 1985, and that in the
hotel and catering industry, 26,600 new jobs are expected to be generated
annually from 1981 onwards. The National Service for Commercial Apprentice-
ship (SENAC) presently provides training for 290,000 workers per year in the
service sector.
29.       Information about job vacancies and the placement of workers is a
responsibility of the Secretariat of Employment and Wages of the Ministry of
Labor, which has established a small network of employment agencies throughout
the country. Because this system is still in its infancy, only a very limited
number of unemployed workers have been able to utilize it to obtain employment.
In order to rectify this situation, the Secretariat of Employment and Wages is
establishing a National Employment System (SINE) with state centers and local
employment agencies throughout the country. In order to staff SINE adequately,
about 2,500 new employees need to be trained, and some 1,700 employees per
year upgraded over the next few years.
30.       The rapid pace of industrialization has involved the use of many
processes and techniques that are new for the labor force. As a result, there
has been an alarming increase in occupational accidents. In 1975, there were
more than two million reported accidents, which affected 15% of the insured
labor force. Through the National Foundation for Occupational Safety, Hygiene
and Medicine (FUNDACENTRO) located in Sao Paulo, the Government is starting a
program to reduce industrial accidents and their attendant social and economic
costs by implementing compulsory occupational safety training schemes. The
Ministry of Labor's Secretariat of Labor Relations is responsible for direct-
ing this program, whose goals are to reach about 500,000 workers per year when
in full operation, and to reduce the accident rate to 6% of the insured labor
force by 1986.
Vocational Training and Development Strategy
31.       Systematic vocational training has largely been carried out by
institutions created to serve the needs of particular sectors. SENAI was
established in 1942 to upgrade manpower skills in industry, and in 1946, SENAC
was created to provide the same facility for the commercial sector. Although
created by government decree, both SENAI and SENAC are financed, organized and
administered by the private sector. SENAI receives the proceeds of a 1%
payroll tax on industrial enterprises, and is managed by the National Con-
federation of Industry. SENAC is the beneficiary of a similar tax on commer-
cial enterprises and is managed by the National Confederation of Commerce.
In 1963, a National Manpower Department (DNMO) for the training of unemployed
workers was created in the Ministry of Labor, and in 1967 the Intensive
Program for Manpower Training (PIPMO) was created within the Ministry of
Education to provide training mainly for employed workers not covered by SENAI
and SENAC, particularly in rural areas. The agency presently responsible for
rural training is the National Service for Rural Training (SENAR), which was
created in 1976 to absorb many of PIPMO's functions. Coordination among these



- 10 -
institutions has been limited, there are wide variations in standards (i.e.,
in curricula, course structure, instructor/trainee ratios, and training
methodology), expansion has been unplanned, and training output has not been
well related to labor force priorities.
32.       In order to reduce overlapping activities and resolve the above-
mentioned problems, the Government has, since 1974, taken steps to introduce
systematic procedures for planning, programming and implementation of voca-
tional training on a nationwide basis. The Ministry of Labor and Social
Security was separated into two ministries in 1974, and the new Ministry of
Labor in turn created three Secretariats to cover the areas of responsibility
assigned to it: manpower, employment and wages, and labor relations. The
Secretariat of Manpower was charged with defining the action required to pro-
vide the expanding economy with sufficient skilled manpower. In December 1974,
this Secretariat absorbed PIPMO from the Ministry of Education. In 1975, a
tax incentive law was enacted which enables enterprises financing their own
training activities to deduct twice the expenditure on training from their
taxable incomes. Training activities financed under this scheme must be
approved by the Ministry of Labor. During the first six months after enact-
ment of the law, about 1,000 training proposals were submitted to the Ministry
of Labor. This is expected to greatly increase demand for SENAI and SENAC
services. In 1976, the Government established (i) a National Vocational
Training System comprising all the institutions concerned with vocational
training in the country, and (ii) a Federal Council of Manpower composed of
one representative each from the Ministries of Labor, Planning, Finance and
Education, SENAI, SENAC, SENAR, workers and employers organizations and three
technical specialists.
33.       The Federal Council of Manpower is responsible for establishing
national vocational training policies in support of the goals and objectives
of the National Development Plan, and introducing suitable machinery for
implementing those policies. It collaborates with the National Center for
Human Resources (CNRH), the research unit of the Secretariat of Planning of
the Presidency of the Republic, and the Secretariat of Employment and Wages
to improve techniques for collecting quantitative and qualitative employment
information for use in planning vocational training nationwide. The Council
is also charged with (i) promoting the coordination of vocational training
with formal education; (ii) promoting better coordination within the SENAI and
SENAC systems themselves with the objective of standardizing courses nation-
wide for specific job profiles and establishing a national accreditation
system for recognized occupations; and (iii) undertaking research, at the
state and national levels, aimed at improving training methodology and evalua-
tion techniques and reducing unit costs. Finally, the Council is to cooperate
with the National Center for Vocational Training (CENAFOR)--an autonomous
agency for the training of technical teachers and instructors, established in
1969 with UNDP/ILO assistance and financed through the Ministry of Education--
to create training programs designed to overcome a serious shortage of
instructors in the training agencies.



- 11 -
34.       The reforms are designed to centralize decisionmaking at the national
level and provide the Ministry of Labor with the capacity to identify national
vocational training needs and establish training programs in cooperation with
the other institutions involved in the National Vocational Training System.
Because the Secretariat of Manpower of the Ministry of Labor is a relatively
inexperienced body lacking sufficient qualified staff, it will obtain support
from both local and internationally recruited specialists in order to streng-
then its position vis-a-vis the training agencies and enable it to cope with
its new responsibilities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
35.       This would be the Bank's third loan for the development of education
and training in Brazil. The first two projects addressed the needs of
children and young adults within the formal education system. Loan 755-BR
(US$8.4 million, signed in June 1971) supported the expansion and improvement
of 16 federal agricultural and industrial schools at the secondary and post-
secondary levels. The second Bank loan, 1067-BR (US$23.5 million, signed in
December 1974), supported implementation of a national education reform at the
basic and secondary levels in eight North/Northeastern states in Brazil.
Despite some initial delays with the first project, both are now being imple-
mented satisfactorily.
36.       Initial discussions with the Government about a possible third educa-
tion project commenced in February 1976 when a Bank reconnaissance mission
visited the country. It was decided that while further assistance to the
formal education system was appropriate and would be supported under future
Bank projects, the more immediate priority was to complement those efforts by
assistance to nonformal vocational training to meet short- and medium-term
manpower needs of the economy. In May 1976 a Bank identification mission
reached tentative agreement with the Government on the possible content of the
third project, which was then prepared locally. In August 1976 a Bank mission,
with support from ILO specialists in industrial training, rural training,
hotel training, occupational safety and health training and employment serv-
ices, preappraised the project and assisted the Government in finalizing pre-
paration. The project was appraised by the Bank in November/December 1976 and
negotiations were begun on May 3 and completed on May 9, 1977.
Project Concept
37.       The proposed project would develop the capacity of the Ministry of
Labor to coordinate and systematize expansion of the major public and private
vocational training agencies in the country, with a view to alleviating short-
ages of middle-level skilled and semi-skilled workers in various sectors of
the economy in accordance with national development priorities. Besides this
institution-building component, the project would provide for a substantial



- 12 -
increase in vocational training opportunities in selected sub-sectors and
geographic areas, through the physical facilities to be financed. In addition,
the project would help develop a nationwide system of employment information
and placement, as well as an occupational safety and health program. The
project would consist of (a) the construction, furnishing and equipping of
twelve industrial training centers, three hotel training schools, three
commercial training centers, a national headquarters and training center for
occupational safety and health training; (b) equipment for one existing
industrial training center, eight regional occupational safety and health
training centers, and 180 rural mobile training units; (c) staff training for
about 600 instructors and supervisors of the industrial, commercial and hotel
training schools and for 2,525 administrators and support staff of the national
employment information and placement system; (d) labor market studies, follow-
up of students, and preparation of instructional materials for hotel, catering
and related trades; (e) technical assistance in the form of 36-2/3 man-years
of specialists' services, 27-1/4 man-years of fellowships, and an employment
seminar; (f) project administration costs covering 100% of the salaries of six
key Project Unit staff members over the five-year project implementation
period, and 2-1/2 man-years of consultant services to the Project Unit.
Industrial Training (SENAI)
38.       At full operation in 1981, the project would increase the annual
output of trainees from the national SENAI system by some 27,000 (9%) to
about 325,000. In the eight states and the federal district where the project
would be located, annual output of trainees would be increased by about 13% to
a total of 200,000 trainees, representing about 22% of the total estimated
annual requirements through 1985 for new and replacement workers in the secon-
dary sector in those states. Persons would be trained for the supervisory,
middle technician, skilled and semi-skilled worker levels in the mechanical,
electrical, refrigeration, instrumentation, garment and printing trades. The
project institutions would operate on a multiple shift basis with apprentice,
secondary school and adult job entry courses organized during the day (about
40% of all trainees) and upgrading courses for already employed workers (60%)
arranged in the evenings. The Government would take appropriate steps to
ensure that the operational year for the SENAI, SENAC and FUNDACENTRO training
centers would be established at a minimum of 45 weeks (see Section 4.07 of the
draft Loan Agreement). As a first step toward establishing recognized national
skill levels, the Government would agree to take all action necessary to
(i) establish minimum standards for the content and duration of SENAI's
courses for the most common occupations; and (ii) establish an adequate system
for the exchange of information and experience among all of SENAI's regional
departments (see Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). As a result,
standardized, self-contained training modules could be used, which would
permit trainees to enter the system at the stage appropriate to their qualif-
ications and return for further training at any SENAI center at later stages
in their careers. The Government would also agree to: (i) cause SENAI to
conduct a study to evaluate the results of its individualized instruction
methodology; and (ii) take action to obtain official recognition of the SENAI
higher technician degree (see Sections 3.07 and 4.05 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).



- 13 -
Commercial Training (SENAC)
39.       At full operation in 1981, the commercial training centers included
in the project would provide for only a small increase of 1.0% in output of
the national SENAC system (about 520,000 persons annually). However, they
would make a substantial impact on training opportunities in the territories
of Amapa and Rondonia and the state of Mato Grosso where they would be located,
and would satisfy about 38% of the estimated annual requirements for new and
replacement workers in the tertiary sector (excluding tourism) in those
frontier areas which are developing rapidly and have particularly acute short-
ages of skilled workers. The training centers would operate on a multiple
shift basis with job entry courses (60% of all trainees) during the day and
upgrading (40%) arranged in the evenings.
Hotel Training (SENAC)
40.       By 1981 the three hotel schools (Brasilia, Florianopolis and Rio de
Janeiro) would enter into full operation, thus doubling the number of SENAC
hotel schools in the country and increasing the annual output of SENAC trainees
in hotel and catering occupations by 100% and 26%, respectively, to about
17,900. Facilities would consist of three 100-bedroom first-class hotels
incorporating training centers and would be based on the "pedagogic enterprise"
principle (i.e., they would be self-financed out of the services they provide
for the public). To permit maximum flexibility, the training programs would
be arranged on an individual basis, with each trainee moving through the hotel
on his own itinerary.
Rural Training (SENAR)
41.       SENAR would increase rural training programs by more than two and
one-half times (compared with the 1975 output of SENAR's predecessor agency,
PIPMO) to reach some 309,000 small-scale farmers, agricultural laborers and
rural artisans. Almost half of their trainees would be in the northeastern
and northern parts of the country, where agricultural incomes are particularly
low. At full operation in 1981, it would satisfy about 40% of estimated
annual requirements for semi-skilled and skilled manpower for priority agri-
cultural and rural development projects. The mode of training would be by
mobile unit, with each unit consisting of a vehicle and sets of training
equipment (sub-divided into kits for each separate training activity, such
as soil conservation, plant protection, agricultural machinery operation
and repair). Interchangeability of kits among mobile units would be possible
and would permit maximum flexibility in the range of courses which could
be offered. The Government would agree that detailed annual training programs
acceptable to the Bank would be submitted to the Bank by June 30 of each
year (see Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). In executing the various
training programs, SENAR would adopt the same approach as has been applied by
PIPMO, namely to utilize specialized agencies (Ministry of Agriculture, exten-
sion services, banks extending agricultural credit, local machinery or farm
inputs firms) in defining detailed training needs within specific geographic



- 14 -
areas and subsequently to utilize their instructors or key personnel to offer
the training courses. There would be an important collaborative effort
between SENAR, the agricultural extension service (EMBRATER at the federal and
EMATER at the state level), and other agricultural agencies, cooperatives and
enterprises, whose respective responsibilities would be clarified in agreements
between these entities. Such agreements would be submitted to the Bank for
approval, and their signature would be a condition for disbursement of loan
proceeds for this component of the project (see Schedule 1, Section 4(c) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Occupational Safety and Health Training (FUNDACENTRO)
42.       The output from the FUNDACENTRO network of eight regional training
centers and one national headquarters/training center in Sao Paulo at full
operation in 1981 would be about 24,300 graduates per year. Approximately
20% of these would be high level technical personnel (senior medical officers,
safety engineers and psychologists) who, after training at the national head-
quarters, would either staff the regional training centers, work as safety
personnel in large enterprises, or join universities and other educational
institutions where they would organize and deliver occupational safety and
health courses. The remaining 80% of mostly supervisory staff (medical offi-
cers, safety engineers, trade union officials, managers and foremen) would
be trained in FUNDACENTRO's regional centers or in other cooperating enter-
prises, after which they would be responsible for in-plant safety and health
training of workers in smaller enterprises. It is expected that an additional
500,000 workers would receive training annually through in-plant schemes,
representing one-twelfth of the insured labor force. The objective of this
training would be to reduce accident rates from 15% to 8% of the insured labor
force during 1976-81, and to stabilize the rate at 6% by 1986. Submission of
evidence to the Bank of acquisition or rental of suitable premises for the
eight training centers would be a condition of loan disbursement for the
purchase of equipment for such centers (see Schedule 1, Section 4(d) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Besides direct training, FUNDACENTRO would manage a
national promotional campaign to encourage awareness and acceptance of occupa-
tional safety and health practices in Brazil; maintain documentation and
library services on those subjects; establish an advisory service to assist
larger enterprises in organizing their own occupational safety and health
programs; and provide technical services to enterprises in the form of basic
qualitative and quantitative analysis related to industrial hygiene and basic
standards of occupational safety.
Employment Information and Placement System (SINE)
43.       SINE would expand its services by establishing an employment office
in each of the project training centers and by providing training (both at job
entry and every two years thereafter for upgrading) for the 2,525 staff members
who would be assigned to these employment offices and would be engaged in
collecting information about employment opportunities and organizing placement
services. To assist SINE during the start-up period (6-12 months) the Secre-
tariat of Employment and Wages would contract local consultants for a total of



- 15 -
13 man-years equivalent. In 1978, SINE would hold a seminar on organizing
and implementing employment information and placement programs. The Bank
would be given an opportunity to comment on the agenda and financial plan
for the seminar prior to disbursement of loan funds for this purpose (see
Schedule 1, Section 4(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Technical Assistance
44.       The project would include the following technical assistance (Annex
14): (a) about 9 man-years of international specialists' services, 1 man-year
of international fellowships and 4 man-years of fellowships to other Latin
American countries to assist SENAR in establishing its rural mobile training
programs (complementing 2 man-years of assistance presently being provided by
ILO under UNDP financing); (b) about 5.5 man-years of international special-
ists' services and 10.5 man-years of international fellowships to assist
FUNDACENTRO expand the occupational safety and health training programs;
(c) about 4 man-years of international specialists' services and 7 man-years
of fellowships to assist SINE in expanding its employment information and
placement services, and 6.8 man-years of international fellowships and
US$60,000 for a seminar on employment services; (d) about 14 man-years of
national specialists' services and 2.5 man-years of international fellowships
to assist the Secretariat of Manpower in coordinating vocational training at
the national level; (e) about 4.0 man-years of local specialists for the
evaluation of SENAI's individualized instructional methodology in industrial
training; and (f) about 2.5 man-years of international fellowships for train-
ing the directors of SENAC project hotel schools and commercial training
centers. The cost of technical assistance is estimated as follows: US$55,000/
man-year for international specialists' services; US$35,000/man-year for
national specialists' services and US$16,320/man-year for international
(including other Latin American) fellowships. Part of this technical assis-
tance would be provided and financed through a US$1.5 million grant from the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), for part of which the Interna-
tional Labor Organization would be the executing agency.
Manpower Studies
45.       Manpower studies would be sponsored by the Secretariat of Manpower
in order to (i) establish an information base regarding the existing stock of
skilled manpower; (ii) install a system enabling continuous assessment of man-
power needs; and (iii) devise means to channel the information to the training
agencies for use in their planning process. The Government would ensure that
the studies, whose terms of reference would be subject to the Bank's approval,
will commence no later than January 1, 1978 (see Section 3.03(c) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The studies would be implemented by the training agencies
(SENAI, SENAC and SENAR).
Evaluation
46.       The Government would ensure (see Sections 4.09 and 4.10 of the draft
Loan Agreement) that: (a) by January 1, 1978 the Project Unit, in cooperation



- 16 -
with the Secretariats of Manpower, Employment and Wages and Labor Relations
and the training agencies, would submit to the Bank an acceptable plan for
monitoring and evaluating the qualitative and quantitative impact of each
of the project components in accordance with their stated objectives; and
(b) within three months of the closing date of the loan, cause the Ministry
of Labor to prepare and send to the Bank a report providing a preliminary
assessment of the project, its results and the experience gained during
implementation.
Staffing
47.       To adequately staff all project-related institutions with new
instructors and supervisors over the period of project implementation the
Government would enter into contractual agreements, acceptable to the Bank,
with the appropriate instructor training institutions in order to ensure the
availability of sufficient fully trained instructors. The receipt of such
agreements would be a condition for disbursement for the SENAI and SENAC project
components involved (see Schedule 1, Section 4(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
SENAI, SENAC, FUNDACENTRO and SINE are adequately staffed for commencing
project implementation; however, SENAR, having been created recently, would
need to obtain new staff, and the Government would agree to appoint the
required administrative and support staff by April 1, 1978 (see Section 4.04
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Administration
48.       Project administration would be shared by the Ministry of Labor and
the training agencies. A Project Unit would be established under the Secretary-
General (Vice Minister) of the Ministry, to coordinate project implementation
and maintain financial control. The Project Unit would consist, as a minimum,
of a director, an architect, a civil engineer, a vocational training specialist,
a programmer and an accountant, all working full-time and employed in consulta-
tion with the Bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to it (see Section
3.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The establishing of the Project Unit
would be a condition for loan effectiveness (see Section 6.01(d) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The Project Unit would report to the Secretary-General, and
would implement the project through (a) the Secretary of Manpower, for the
SENAI, SENAC and SENAR components; (b) the Secretary of Employment and Wages,
for the SINE component; and (c) the Secretary of Labor Relations, for the
FUNDACENTRO component. The respective functions and responsibilities of the
Project Unit, Secretariats and agencies, implementation schedules, procedures
for the transfer of Bank loan funds and local counterpart financing, and the
procurement arrangements to be used under the project would all be detailed in
(a) subsidiary agreements between the Ministry of Labor and SENAI, SENAC and
FUNDACENTRO, and (b) inter-ministerial operating programs drawn up by the
Ministry of Labor for the SINE and SENAR components. Execution of subsidiary
agreements and preparation of operating programs satisfactory to the Bank
would be conditions of loan effectiveness (see Section 3.01(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement). SENAI, SENAC and FUNDACENTRO would employ consultants, with



- 17 -
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory
to the Bank, to perform design engineering and construction supervision for
the vocational training centers (see Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
49.       Total project cost is estimated at US$92.51 million equivalent, of
which US$16.44 million is in foreign exchange. The cost estimates are based
on April 1977 prices at an exchange rate of US$1 = Cr$13.50, and include
provision for physical contingencies and price escalation (see Loan and
Project Summary).
50.       The proposed loan of US$32 million would finance 35% of the estimated
total project cost including 94% (US$15.47 million) of the foreign exchange
component and 22% (US$16.53 million) of local currency costs. The UNDP would
finance the balance of the foreign exchange component (about US$1.5 million in
technical assistance). The Government has agreed to take all necessary steps
to ensure that the technical assistance projects to be financed by the UNDP
would be approved by October 1, 1977. In a country like Brazil, which is
making a vigorous effort to mobilize domestic resources, it appears appropriate
for the Bank to assist in the financing of local currency expenditures of
projects which, like the present one, have very high priority and yet have a
very low foreign exchange content (in the present case 18%). If the Bank is
to be effective in supporting a project of this kind, it seems reasonable for
it to contribute at least 35% of the costs even though this entails financing
some local currency expenditures.
51.       The Government would finance the balance of project costs and would
take the necessary steps to meet all the recurrent costs of SENAR and SINE,
and will cause SENAI, SENAC and FUNDACENTRO to make adequate budgetary provi-
sions to meet all recurrent costs under the project (see Section 4.08 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       All civil works contracts expected to exceed US$3.0 million and
equipment contracts (except for furniture and vehicles) would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. Civil works contracts for lesser amounts and all contracts for
furniture and vehicles would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. How-
ever, furniture and equipment which could not be grouped into packages of at
least US$50,000 might be purchased in accordance with local procurement proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank. The total value of items purchased in this
manner would not exceed US$3,800,000 (equivalent to about 15% of the total
estimated value of furniture and equipment). Domestic manufacturers of
furniture and equipment (defined under Brazilian law as those whose bids
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the total
bid) would be allowed a preferential margin in bid evaluation of 15% of the
c.i.f. price or the prevailing tariff, whichever is lower.



- 18 -
53.       The loan would be disbursed over a 5-1/2 year period, and the proj-
ect would be completed by June 30, 1982. Disbursements would cover: (a) 100%
of foreign exchange expenditures or 26% of local expenditures for equipment;
(b) 35% of total expenditures for site development, construction, furniture,
staff training, selected professional services, studies and teaching materials
production; and (c) 100% of selected technical assistance and of the salaries
of six key project unit personnel.
Benefits and Risks
54.       The project would strengthen the planning and administration of
Brazil's vocational training system and would finance expansion of the system
in sectors and areas of key importance in Brazil, to serve the needs primarily
of lower income workers and job seekers. Training in the rural sector would
be increased some two and one-half times to meet an estimated 40% of national
requirements for trained rural manpower, with emphasis on those less developed
regions where there are ongoing or planned agricultural and rural development
projects. There would be a further 13% increase in the output of trained
industrial manpower in the nine project states, where industry is concentrated
and such demand is highest. For the first time, commercial training would be
introduced in two territories and one state in the North and Center-West
Regions to meet a rapidly growing demand for trained tertiary sector personnel.
Regarding tourism, the expansion of hotel schools based on the "pedagogic
enterprise" concept would double the output of trained manpower for the hotel
industry. To complement these programs, the project would provide for the
expansion of employment information and placement services and occupational
safety and health training. The economic rate of return cannot be calculated
for the project as a whole. The occupational safety and health component of
the project, which represents 6% of the total project cost, besides its
obvious benefits for human welfare, would have an economic rate of return on
investment of about 26%, based on a conservative estimate of the reduction in
the loss of total working hours and of medical costs of accidents.
55.       There would be no major risks of a technical nature associated with
the project. The main participating entities (SENAI, SENAC, and SENAR) have
considerable experience in their respective fields of training, and SINE and
FUNDACENTRO, which have much less experience, would be operating on a scale
that is easily manageable in the Brazilian context. More subject to uncer-
tainty would be the institutional objective of the project--that is, the
extent to which the Ministry of Labor would be able to develop its full
potential for coordinating the national vocational training system, and
particularly to influence the activities of the well-established agencies such
as SENAI and SENAC. The project implementation and financing arrangements
described above have been designed to reduce this uncertainty and foster
cooperation.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the Report of the committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 26, 1977






zi I06
la*m 
'-itO                                                                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
O S   0 4-      -                                    -                      m     .S                                    S
C                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IM
0                                                                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
p-fbi  I                                                                                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z 
.~~~~~~~~~.  I                                                - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*   r        -   2Z
rut  I                                                                                                      *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'no 
0 *   -  I S   S   Ova   o 4 4   SI   a r  0 0~~~~~~~~~41.   i4c  o               A  -   A a-a    
Li S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
flu  .-                                                                                    S~~~.0~11-I t IT
40 t o B .            C t..                    -..V .                             . *  --          -  
..DIP                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C  - - n c
ou  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -                            C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44  -  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~  u
SB Out- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~~vwS
O   oi                          -h44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I         -5]~~~~~~~~~~~~4  



I                    '0 tto.0  0'  CO     OOC
000w  0 -        0                           0     -
-J               0        '.                     00   00
'C            0Zt               ZN." Co.,C 0. 00                          00*0 0   -
..          0:-o0    0 -      000   g OCt -  to o-
ooowaoo        u>000   0          000000..    0                   0
CeO  0.0 C  ot-                                                     0z.z-a : 
*                                      0000.'-       a   a.  oo 0                    0.
,.  o  OWofrOCO.oC                                        2
ft        -      - a aoo
00   o.1 3-:.  oowoOOo     -        o 0.0 000
wOCOCCwao 00           a 00    000   .0 o';.-.z 3t              0100       w    o   O
-. 000' .0000  00.0 0 0   -
O   00                                    - 0   OCOC.0C.0C000   0 00         500'000.Ot
a    w                             0.0   .0 oOCt ft wO 00,001.     00    0*.0 -  00000   -0001...    o.                   00   01
0   ooCoOgw2                                                           00
aa ooot.o. oa     OOC.OgCO3 o0          00 w                       000  00 wa-    C
C                               . Cow  0000>.           00  0 00    00-0 tao
00000000       00    Coaao Co                     a-     *    0400  ow-Iowa
:05.0.. .0o.0aCtC.o.O 0 0  0 00 a 0E 3 - 00   0 0              000 ow
p                   0'                V>VOUCtO,>.C         a CC      000  ao       -
.0  00   00                                                   0      0                  0'1      0   00 CO            -It   ..
a    a   C                                     0                       Ox     '-'00  g 00C0  000     8  a   8        *000  aw o
0                               :::a   28.                                                                   00   &0 00
o oo.o          at 0o000                        000  00 >     -                         Ii
.AiAUY2iH>                                                                                        'A
ti    o                      -           toa:0   OwooOC   2{c.-1w   A       0 ooo  oko 8013  COV     to   ooA
0000    owo    00000    0000    00000
o:     000-0              -   0    00 0   owg           5.,o.-.
a ooo    woo  o    00000        S     CIC *o>..-a 0 ooo  g   o                     8w     woo
Coo                00>  '0000           01        .o80
uaOoOaOa                wwOto               t
* woawiy5A::2aoaoo aooOoO5.           000   0000-   80.00    000  0           to          0
-w       00000000      aoooo    a.oat 0           0000      00000
*1.                        ,     Ow OoO - 0w0C001         -         0OC       00w  C.0w00   oOwo 0
I    00   OCoO 0oa 00000.0 oO        o       a0  000.    0030 a       Ca           0     o   - a a
*   tao oOoa   00 ,wo.a  0 o0.to     :000.0. CO .00  -40      00   0          COO 0      0' *0 a
woCot ->0 0.0 -    a wC t     000     00000000       >,05                   go.oI  . ow0
0.  00                              0000   0000000            OttO        0000   0 so   000.a   ,,..wo.o
00410000w     .0CIi:o j:             0 . 000w     000  0   tr..atu%         0.00        Ct
!0.o0                a    C:3      00.00000         00 0    ooOto                      0.00010
o0o00cg8Z0o  0   C     00    .000.000000%.OajO       000000                 0
00                             : g ez C oj3;3a                    8t:   j.2s8CIfl:3.                g     *0 at aoooc I
Eooaaooooooo U                              a                          aa .
oot:i0:ia:iii:>.0o00               0000 0 oo:op4 o;00
0a,:aoC80C10 -o oOO.o             0 0o.0000o 0    0 wa     a. -o Coo-CC    0 00 00
50                                o.o 0.  C0O0. ooao     0' o coo   000.-  0   Oo    000   0000  0w-Cow   00          CM
00                             0000             -i    OooaOoC.aoa            ot-.0.0 .000    Coo Ca
00000w t *oaao COO     OtO  0    C"0 0 000 00   000,0    00                 o
510.5000000  oca 0 0            0 0000
24       0.00000 0 000 .0000000.0,      OttO OtOt 0o0S0.CO 00    Cot.O0
00     S                      0   a-0        r000IkOO4OOOCCa Owwo 0C00r.03,'C0.-0 0 o 00000
-aao"oO              0 r0a0    *oo*    I   a,  00000    0   0000000     0,
ww                                         >000000    00o3                 Ct
o   o    0         o                 t    t   0            I   ol          C             o!j
a   a    a         a                o 0                     ala  a    0  00         a   o
010                                                  ao.aoo.4oj Co0>0           >2      001  I 00 j 0..oooooo at
0   o              0.  .         0   00            0  0
I                 a          o   a oa       a   0 00          0g 05      0 0 0000
0                          -              0                  00                                                         00
C              0030       0      8Sf      00000       C  o so
            0     .   r
a   on      0 01 00                                        0         0    r    0:00           ow         :- 00   .o'o
000  p p 2 00 30 0o .0
                        '7  .-   a 0    a CO   o a   000      a     00.00   05 00        0    00.    00  -I    0
.2  80     0j                         CAtS    58  00    0   0   000         0    0
0                                             o'       Oo   a          00     0      0      0     o   woo        .0   o
'C             a                     *   r     0   0 0    to "'C 0 a                   oa.0 0          -o..CC'C2:
'0    0         'C        00 00  000 t    0. 00
000 0 00 0 '0 000.00 00
00000   C 00 000' 0.   0 Ct  00>               aO    0.0...   -0
I          0.                o       .      g    a    0.00
aw0,00 00' 00      0  008.0.0     COo-      00000          -
000  0           -              .
000     00 0   0000
0'                                                              03 t
g    C   C                   Lw
00            .z 0 00                                  as
0 0      0  Ow 0  0' 000    000.0.-wa                 ow  0.00      000
a. .   o eI                              a           000   L0SV   0 -    0 '000
0   10   0 0 0'                                               0000000   00                               00 o0o    0.0.  00
 0808 50 00 a-         .00 000 oo                          .
O   0.                             0                        to.ooaCojN.A          A                    tC03'C0C.CC      0    .00
00       0'>                     0000  00     rooob 0000000
00000>0  o:   &                   0000:0000a    >0
5                         0'     0   :.-o  -  30 -             tAto02N.05              N.
00  o.                                                               K   >   o     - 0                 0
a.         -: - or.                      o,'0o02o.
>000     0                        I                  000   0
00;- 0                                00.    0   0 t.-C8      'a  00
I         .00  0 0-0     00   010  a
    o                        to  .,    op   o.                   ,        >5a   oo    000.00
o;o.-I           00 0)0               tO    ao.-o.o 0 00
o'02o                     u.0A-s     00  Iwo               ooaawoo 0000.0-
00 0 01 - a                  5  000000     I                   000     0 00    00 0 00   .oa   ooooaooogo            -    0.
-                                              Ii       00 0 000 0000    0 0.      0 0'00 0 000     00 .     00  0 at
01    01                        80                             00000000 0000     000    COO   0>000000 ogC
0-0j  0000000  0  000000000               C 0>000   000  000
00000 00000     00000 0 0000                0000000 00wc    a   tO  0000
01 w 00 ow 000 000000, 00 too 0 'oCoCo 00 000
j: >jI 000000 o a CaO 0000 o 0..00...0 .000000 000.
00 000 0000*0 000 00000 0 0 0000 o00.- 0 0 00
00                                      I              Cg500.0
.0000000 ooaoo 0000000000 0 00000000 0000 0CAS.l 0 1
00'                                 p000       4   000000000 *0000 000   oao  0.-ow  000  000 oao-     0.00 -.0.o  00 00
0.00 4             al lCfl   8 000  a 00:::    8 C 000,00 4o4  4  0
0,                                             too  000.oooo oa'ooo...oooo 0000000      0000000    I0 0000000gw>. >   00  000
' ; 0-000 0000 100jw;a 000  o '0 .0.0 aoo 00 .0-.0a
00.1               Oa,.00 00000.0000000000                      0000.000000   00 1  00000.0 .00000000  00000  .00050.
00   00000.0000000       80000    -0      ].0OO00  0 '00  00 00.
10      .o              a>.00000  0000. a 0.000 wOOO5ogOCgOO      00000  CC C. oat
jj                       ti        OwOOCOCO 0000    00000'Co..t g        00
'00&a00t00 00   o0.Cooo   8o408             2X;o:j2iP



ANNTEX I
Pops 3
ECONMOPlC [1F7 ELAPIE 'I DATA S511r 17 
Actual           ~~~~~~~~Preliminarv   Pr erd                          torc     - ae
~~~~~~~~~~~19735NL 17          1976 .         1 ...2980   1985         1 069-73  1973- 76  1976-tO  IOtA-8S         19 73      1 976      l9oA       1985
A.      National Accounts.                MillionUSS 01a 1973 Pre   rdlnlao tare AaS~ Peo-rr nEED
1. CA7lroAtPrce                     8A,91        8516       Bo934         9532 3        171 3089    lb2.619N        I N        I 0      N 2       t 6         lOt N      102 8      102 ,9     102 1
2   Ean   rm om     f Trade            -           -Oil     -179          -7,51          -3,364      -3.805                                                      -         -           29        -.
3.  r.as Domes-r Inon-               11,99 1     84,5170     87.144       97.45         111,725     179.013         II 3       4A        6 1       87          1900       100.0      100.0      ItO 0
4   irepsts                           1,1717      6,75 7      8647         7.955          9,761       I,7T          21          0 I       5-         4           9 7        a1         79         7 2
N  Sop nets- tolans        ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~6,59  6,3138  7 ,292  8,223      11,757      17,944          TC 1       36       9 3        .8           8 5        89        1 '0 A      T15 
6. Enpoers - ST Adjusred  6,596  5,515     5,502        3,843          8,383       14.138         IN 9      -A 6      18 A 8,393110.815                  N I        7 7        7.9
7. Recome Co (A-NI                      981       427        3145'         1910            870           6                                                       1 2        2.1        0 
8  Coosonpicon        61.329      86,866     69,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'788  73,233  88.590  131.6676         9 9       N 0       4 t       8 2          79 0       79.0       75 3       73' 6
9  loceateens              11,3~~  ~   ~~~~~~~~~43 2,4 2051     2,3            3.33         707            17 8       7.3        8        9           223        221 I      2.3        26 3
18 . 8lca   nls15655                            16,93      76.88         16,036        2733         4.71I              S                I         072.                    19A        033        2.
D-1-estr  Saninp                    16,362      17,174     17.356        18,31         29.135       47,337          16 3      6 0      13 5      10 2          21 7       21.0       24 7       26 6
B.      M-rhsndiae Trade                  ilIlc.n. US$ ar Cueoo Pe-e-sPretofTtll,or
Conue coeds                      1,23        1,6738     1358          1,348          1,49        3,03A         34 3       6.2       520      13 0          18      2 112          89         79
Peteleo  ad Deri-tl-e             722        287        2.990          .4           5,66         91374                    72.       110       11 5            7 2     3.1        I0 5       23.6
Isteemdil.t Goods                2,18 7      5,020      3,881         3,442         4.734        8.8            3         6.        63        II           35.5       08 6       25 4       71I
Coptta1 Anode                    2.143       3,108      3,932         3,5010        6,167       17,220          22 6      17 9      17 0      21.3         34.6       29.2       35 3       45 1
Total (FOB)                6,192       62,661     12,169        12.740        18,626       38 ,244        52.8      26.8      II 5      15 5         000.0      t00 0      tOO0 t     lO.t
As Percen of Tonl. nEo..rra
2. Enports-2.                                                                                                                                                               2~1
Coffee                  l,36A~~~~~~~~~~2:  980    9732        2,2311        2,3          2.483          1723     18 4      -l 0       3.1          2.          21        1 
ther Agetroltorl Anode          2.5A        3,415       3,479        3073           2363        16,933 2                  7    2    42A9     18236                    298        8.
in-eA                             399         661       1,017        0.48           2,434A       3.4 63        22 0      36        23.4      17 566                   00          27
les-pasdCno476                                64          66566                     1,53         4,327.6                  2        2 2       70.5           7. 7       6.3        9 I
Ptaoefantored Aenda      0~~~~  ~   ~~,365  2.08  2,300       2,670         5,188       13.40 7         526       25. 1     18 21    20.9          22 0       26.4       27.0
Other                              161         951        709           300           331          525          72 0      23 1      25         9 7          2 6        3.0        1.7
Tota                         6,199      7.951       8,635        10,111        19,203       4 3 .313       78 0      17.7      17 4      1 7 7        180.0      100.5      100.0
C.      Sector ROteo                       Peeet_ of NOP oc Facto Cast r 1973 Potire end Eots-ne Rares
1. Age..trosr                            13.3       IS1 I        5. 1-         4.0           13.9        11.7         6.1       3.9       6 5       5.1
2. Idoarp33.3                                        18         328           33 3           341          753        121 9      74        5 5       9.6
3. Seroi-e                               51 .3       32.0       512.          52.4           52 .1        52 9       10.8       76        6.5       8.9
D,      Pelter 11973 - 1081
1. Report Price Tnden                   100         133        126           130            175          200         63.5       9 3       7 6   6     2
2, 1epeo Petce ledn                     100         136         171          196            247          336          I 8      25 0       60 8        4 
3. Teem  of Trade [ode                  110          8          74            67             71          77            -       10.0       1 5       1 7
N. Censeo Pelts loden                   100         129         1664 
S. A-engs ntlro-ge sRe~                 100         III         1 33---                                                          -         -         -
E.      Seleoted 1ndirare-                  6969-23     97I 3-76   1972-80       1981 -85                           F.     tEe loosee                    1970          1975
1. 1008                        ~~~~~       ~~~~~      ~~~~~         ~~1.80  3.60  6.10  2.89                 oRIlbnPre29,400                           34,100
2 . leesOasot                              .3         -1           79           .98                                    Ag4rereOl6.6                              37 8
3. Aoerage a.   nlSnoeRr                  0.21          1         .24            26                                    nbdaer-c, 15r                6.           18.8
6.  arIna NtioalSa_ng  Rt            0,31         09          .3           .0                                     Se       "I, ,1              35.63
3. leperta/COP                 ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~0.076  .10  .0    .07                                     0nmp-d eI 1                  726           9 0
6  nneten/GO                         0.229        .3          .52
7. Res-rr Gop/CDP                         0.1          .03         0.0
C,      Peb1lt Hiser 3/                     Pe-teet of COP
2973        1976        1970       1976
1. Correct~ Rece-o                       01 1        11.6       10.7         i9                                                                         001 million
1.1. Tan se--o                             10.4        11.0        9.9        II0                                DETAIL ON PUIBLIC SECTOR            an 1973 -oi-n ted tRK
2. Correnr 5eed oc                         .6         3.6         5.3        8.5
3. C._esRStt                              5 7         6 1         546        5 4                               1INESOTIERT 1R07RA80                 1971-74    3of Tors
4. Capial1 tepe-disore                    5.6         N I         5.A        3.4
4 I. Poblit Reoto  Fined Csrtial Formation  11,2       I. I7       2 A          -                                St-r1 Sectors                        4,504          11.3
Aorrto1ltum.                            187          -5.
Inrt_rr and OlrO6,860                               15 2
H.      CoreeI Fod-ol Xo-ermee N-edit-r       Percent of Total                                                      Poos                                 5,499          12S
Tr-npor -rd Coo--n-ar-n               7 ,304         iN 
1973        1 974       19 75                                         NiRor--r I1lenlp-,o                  1,661           3.
t1her 13                             14.717         37 A
1, EductIo                               8 6         9C          9.8                                          1otal -cIr-d-r.r                     39,787         1-00 0o
2. Othe Sorto   Seror-                  15.6        24 0        74.7
3. Agetioltor                            2.1         I 9         2,1                                          FINANCIOI
4   Oshe CE-uml Ser-l.e.                 11.7       1 25        157                                             PhIor SorooIr S"""o'               33,64           B
5Adietnitratton and Osfn-e              35.9  3.         38.0                                             For,g torr-loo   lor                ,6            14.5
6. Other                                 16.0       16.7        10.6                                            Onel--   rooroor                      351           0.9
Toal-   cnta                       39,787         100 0
T-to Co--n Ependr-or              100 B0       lOt 8       100 7
1/Col1-r map ens su to .totls becaus of -ocodlog.
2/toEm-  oally activeppl-  ls
31Federl G-oermert90                                                                                                                         13, 1977
/  -In lde- f Inorola1 rve1 n



A,                                                      i,rel im,nar-                          Pe.,ict.d
197         977 1      I1 1'U           75  197                                  9 76                          1 980               1985
I.    xor     -Itl. NFS)                                 779        62721      .390        0      2      3 .5,5                         ItIbS                           2,6749            46,641
2.   iports (to-l  NFSS                                  .72         .21        ,. 57      .,7       175                                14.43                           22 ,61h           45,274
3.   RoucBlac                                             .5,        .031         Hi9    .92         ..,4                                3778                           -1,317             1.567
I. Net IneetPyet                                        -0           79        -1          02      -491.5-3116                                                                          -4373
2M DIrt Is-et-en    Isn                                -130         _ -6)    -391        -748       -735                               -388                            -3 50             -565
3 Otter Feotor S ceosor Ivoono  -40       -St        -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -16  -37                      -tSR                             -28               -283-15  -2  -2
5    Curn    es et(o)3.                                                 5         27          1          -                                  12                             to                Io
b.   tsl,o--u         A-rro ,9000                       -1 397      -3,487     .3.699     -7,122     -6.7151                            -6.062                          -4,78e            -3.351
7.  Pra-ae Dt-eot lovuntees                                168        71.9       940        807        890                               1.810                           1,455             2.380
aOfficia  Soures
8. Dsnbarnexosn                                         4           475        562        947        907                               1,0745                         1,385              1,689
9    .osrauts-312                                                     -8         -27        -11        -73                                -486                            -558            -1, 198
10   "Be Diteb--ae-t                                       199         277        345        756        634                                 390                            84549
ii.   D-abarae-atn                                        1,876      4,091       3,990      0,n00      ,974                               6,727,3                                           9,5349
1.   Antecn-81                                                      -3,210     -1, 529     -1,71     -1,I868                             -2.404                          _5.06-,6
13 e2     Daoaeet                                          9951      281         ,469      4,94        4064,568                                                           2,489             2,220
14   Ue f IMP B...r.c 6-8                                               47                     7 
15   Ihuro-tees Capitol Truonat i-s                        507          67       -730,       464        424                               1,038- 
16.   atu      satuN~ 90                                    3          378        519       -302        949                               1.029                                       -        -
17.  Chasgeoesvx(- -lercs)                                 -642     -2,369      -2,435                 7,0467,9--67
18.   Foregn E-nobao  esRoe
(EO of Pocud)                                       2.07        4,994      6,551      1,500      4,552                               6,745                          7,808             156800
8   Gru-t and Lo.s C-neit-nts
1.   Tutal MOLT Loan                                     2.526       5.703     4.9726      7,917      7,4180                                                                       lgACTUIAL195         -
1.1.18D                                                 756         455        199        140        426            DEBT AND DEBT SERnICE                             1973       07        9h       17
I.3  10                                                 10          107        242        101        217
1.3  Cuoeenusrota                           7~~   ~    ~~~~      ~   ~~~252  780  440  4 75  525  A  Medto-ad  ogTemDb
4.   Bppiea496                                                        694        897      1,000      1,376           (lbee     sy
,5,Bud                                                      -          80         37         25          -          1   1       ~                                      251       1,6        111      2,8
1.6.Fiounia1 CTedata                                     1,441       3,396      3,153      5.103      6,638       3. loalBrjOt-Ctnoddng (-d cf petiud)1251                        7,6       2003      595
1.F El soil iCeIt                                  7,848    11,201    14,560    18.194
C. Memc-das   Item                                                                                                        .   tes   It ,MIlu. ,Baedu,Sspphlera9             4,723     5,955     668        ,9
3.   . Pblic ood Publ,icy Daratred                 6,496     8,5 33   11.41     1.5
I.   Cr-t moment of l~oa   Coesit-ota                       .          .                                  5          4.  Privat                                         6,075     8,633      9,730    it.133
2.   Ao-ege In-eert (Pe-cet)                               6.          7.4        8.8        9.5        9.5       2  Ictal Debo Semite                                  2.586     3.277      3,945    4.92?
3,   Average Maturity (Years                               6.1        6 8         7.7        9.8        9 9           1. Total Interest                                   848     1.378      1,804     2.839
2  ecloene                                       514       651      I 639     I358
Ootetondtmg Occembee 31, 1976      3 ~~Pu.i  Db   Deriu--                                           1. 287    8,550     1.910
8       l. Debt Bre
1.  1880                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1, 787   5 0
2. Other MoIillatetol                                           542.I                                             1. Total Debt Deruie. Ba-                               39.2       38.7      62,6       46.2
3. Cooe-rts                                                  3,86526                          11 0                2, Total Debt Seeice Radix?!/                           42.2       41.6      43.2       49.8
4. Supplier                                                  7,4 14                           9.3                 3   Public Bebt DeS-ie Ra-t                               -        15.2      16.7       17.9
3. Bode                                                        289                            1.1                 4. Litqodity Rasli?/                                     22.3      27.4      34-3       33.4
6. FPlasociul Credits                                        18,194                           70.0                5, TotalDebt Ser-ice/CDt'.4.1                                                 32          .
7. Ohe                                                         39                              1.5                6. PublIc Debt Se-a-ee/1GVp_                              --        2.2       1.2        13
8. Tut1 MOT Debt                                            25.985                           100 0                7, Tota DOD7CDPk                                         16.1      16.6      17.0       18.4
9,  T.ta 1Poblio MOLT Debt                                  14,852                            37.1
C  Lbt P-M.                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~InItteret cu T.taLIDOD/Tut-I DOD  6.7   8.0       85         7.8
1. Total Debt Strob   i977-8l/Tutal lost esd of 1976                     154.4                                    2   Total Debt Nente/Tuta DO3                            28.6      1.1       1.8        19.0
39  D . Oessdeov Ratiua fur MOTDebt
1, Groa..b.    smrt/Ient      (.ta. MElt                 60.2     147.9      48.15      55.7
2. Not Transfrr/lmparto (lee. WE)26.8                              25.5      20.5       21.6
3,Net Tea-fe-/Crs ... shnraements                      43,3      53.4      42.7       3WS
E. Eneetnee
1, 1380 OcabiCross. Total Di.b.                           4.2       3.5       3.6        2.
2   188D DODITotal DOD                                    5.1       5.0       5.2        4~
3, IBID Deb t Deeilce(TedaI Debt Se-ite                   2.7       2.6       2.6        2.8
I/Culms a.    u set     oaaben..use of ru.nding.
3/ Dab t serice as apor-c   af eoPortn pl- usecr        - I e-cu  oP 3 -oolll inPort-                                                                                                       l- 13. 1977
--I out-x 1973 price..
--No A-stlabie



THI STATUS OF B1AK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL .               II
Page 1
A.   SUMMARY STATEEINT OF LOANS
(AS OF-  APRIL 3C4, 1977)
Amount less      Undi3-
Loan #    Year              Borrower                 Purpose      Cancellations      bursed
(US$ MilliY         -
Thirty-One Loans Fully Disbursed                                      890.9
677     1970     Furnas - Centrais Eletricas     Power               80.0            3.8
Marimbondo
728     1971     Centrais Eletricas do Sul do    Power               70.0            5.8
Brasil - Salto Osorio
755     1971     Brazil                          Education            8.4             2.8
756     1971     Brazil                          Ports               45.0            24.5
757     1971     Superintendencia de Agua        Water Supply        22.0             0.3
e Esgotos da Capital
758     1971     Companhia Yetropolitana de      Control             12.0            0.5
Saneartnto de Sao Paulo
786     1971     Rede Ferioviaria Federal        Railways            46.o             5.2
797     1972     Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Indtustry           64.5             2.2
812     1972     Usinas Siderurgicas de          Industry            63.0             6.6
Minas Gerais
813     1972     Brazil                          Roads               89.0            1."
828     1972     Coraanhiia Siderurgica          Industry            64.5             3.6
Paulista
829     1972     Centrais Eletricas de YMinas    Power               60.0             6.5
Gerais - Sao Simao
853     1972     Brazil                          Land Settlement      6.7             5.6
887     1973     LIGHT-Servicos de gletri.       Power               20.0            12.6
923     1973     Furnas Centrais Eletricas -     Power              125.0            75.1
Itumbiara
924     1973     Brazil                          Agro-Industry       5L.0            32.5
1008     1974     Cia, Hidro Eletrica do Sao      Power                81.0           77.2
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009     1974     Banco Nacional de Habitacao     Water Supply         36.o           18.3
1067     1974     Brazil                          Education            2,3.5          23.3
1074     1975     Redo Ferroviaria Federal        Railways           175.0           131.4
1075     1975     Brazil                          Roads              110.0            81.0
1151     1975     Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry             95.0           95-0
1152     1975     Companhia Siderurgica Panlista  Industry             60.0           59.3
1153     1975     Brazil                          Agriculture          23.0           21.0
1171     1975     FEPASA-Ferrovia Paulista        Railways             75.0           74.3
1195     1976     Brazil                          Rural Development    12.0           11.7



ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL      Page 2
A.   SUMVIRY STATE10NT OF LOASiS
(AS OF APRIL 30, 1977)
Amount less      Undis-
Loan f    Year              Borrower                  Purpose      Cance)lations     bursed
(US$ znihlio)ll-
1206     1976     Brazil                           Develop. Bank       85.0           85.0
1207     1976     Brazil                           Feeder Roads        55-           55-0
1249     1976     Brazil                          Agriculture          40.0           39.7
1256     1976     Petrobras Fertilizantes         Fertilizer           51 44.6
1257     1976     Coziqpanhia Paraonse  de        Power                52.o           51.6
Energia Eletrica - COPEL
1300     1976     Eaetrobras                       Poller              50.0           50.0
1302     1976     Brazil                           Nutrition           19.0           19.0
1309     1976     Banco Nacional de Habitacao     l4ater Supply        40.0           39.2
1317     1976     Brazil                          Agro. Industry       83.0           83.0
1343 /2  1977     ELETROSUL                        Power               82.0           82.0
1362 7W  1977     State of Nlinas Gerais           Rural Develop.     142.0          142.0
14s06 7i 1977     Petrobras Fortilizantes          Fertilizer          64.0           64.0
1411 7,  1977     Fortilizantes Vale do                                82.0           82.0
Rio Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL   Fertilizer
Total                                             3,155.5 /      1,519.10
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                374.6
Total now outstanding                             2,780.9
Amount sold                        45.5
of which has been repaid         22.9              22.6
Total now held by Bank                            2^728.3
Total undisbursed                                                1
/1   No IDA credits have been nade to Brazil.
/2   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of April 30. 1977)
Fiscal Year                          Obligor                                     Type of Business                                      Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957            Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                       Electrical Equipment                                  2.00      -       2.00
1958            Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                             Pulp and Paper                                        1.20      -       1.20
1958            D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                            Automotive Parts                                       0.45      -       0.45
1958            Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                       Motor Vehicles                                         2.45      _       2.45
1959            Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                 Cement                                                  1.20     _       1.20
1959            Champion Celulose, S.A.                                      Pulp                                                  4.00      -       4.00
196611968l
1972            Acos Villares, S.A.                                          Steel                                                 8.00     1.93     9.93
1966/1969       Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                           Pulp and Paper                                         3.78     3.41     7.19
1967/1972       Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                           Fertilizers                                            8.22     3.03    11.25
1969            Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                     Petrochemicals                                         5.50     2.88    8.38
1970            Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                      Petrochemicals                                         5.50     2.88     8.38
1971            Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Comercio                           Petrochemicals                                         4.60     1.44     6.04
1971            Industria de Celulose Borregaard, S.A.                       Pulp                                                   4.90      -       4.90
1972/1975       Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                       Cement                                                29.14     3.20    32.34
197311974/1977  Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGIJA                Steel                                                 T6.96     7.50   8o.46
1973            Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                     Capital Market Development                             5.00      -       5.00
1973            Empresa de Degenvolvimento de Recursos
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                   Nickel M]ning and Refining                             26.00    4.40    30.40
1974            Industrias Villares, S.A.                                    Elevatorb and Industrial Equipment                     6.00      -       6.00
1974            Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                             Textiles                                              31.00      -      31.00
1975            Capuava Carbonos Industriais Ltd.                            Carbon Black                                           6.18     1.08     7.26
1975            Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                       Petrochemicals                                        10.00      -      10.00
1976            Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.                Textiles                                               6.45     1.00     7.45
1976            Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste                Textiles                                               6.00      -       6.00
1977            FMB S. A. Productos Metalurgicos                             Iron and Aluminum Castings                             20.00      -      20.00
Total Gross Commitments                                                                                            274.53    32.75   307.28
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                                             185.63     8.27   193.90
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                                                   88.90    24.48   113.38
Total Undisbursed                                                                                                   35.10     0.53    35.63



ANINEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of April 30, 1977)
There are now 35 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:   US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date:
August 31, 1977. The Marimbondo hydroelectric station and the
bulk of the related transmission lines were completed on schedule.
The balance, that is the remaining transmission system additions,
is expected to be in operation by July 1977 as scheduled. The
project has been successfully implemented by FURNAS, the consul-
tants and the contractors, in spite of a cost overrun of about
43%. In part, the cost overrun resulted from an increase in the
scope of the transmission system component to allow for the con-
struction of a more economical and reliable system, and from
larger civil works as a result of unforeseen geological problems.
The cost overrun, however, does not affect the economic justif-
ication of the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:   US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1978.
The physical component of the project has been successfully com-
pleted. Two of the four generating units are now in commercial
operation. A cost overrun of about US$120 million, 79% of the
original cost estimate, has not significantly affected the economic
justification of the project. This cost overrun was financed by
loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank. The Closing Date for
this loan, originally May 31, 1977, has been postponed to May 31,
1978 to allow the Borrower sufficient time to meet retention pay-
ments on major equipment contracts.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
755       Education Project:   US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 28, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977. Prog-
ress on the construction and equipping of the project schools is
now proceeding satisfactorily, and 80% of the project has been
completed. A 20% cost overrun, mainly for civil works, is being
financed by the Government. Project implementation is behind the
original schedule due to initial delays in establishing and staffing
the project unit and because of subsequent changes in project
content. The original Closing Date was December 31, 1975.
756       Santos Port Project:   US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. Execution of
the project is now proceeding satisfactorily, although there have
been delays and cost overruns which will be financed by the Borrower.
The Government has approved legislation which converted the National
Ports and Navigable Waterways Department (DNPVN)from a government
agency to a public corporation, PORTOBRAS. PORTOBRAS, with the
assistance of management consultants, has been improving port
operations in Santos. The National Port Development Study financed
under the project is now completed. The financial situation of the
Borrower deteriorated in 1976 due to increased costs of materials and
labor, which were not matched by adequate tariff increases.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project:   US$22 million loan of June 21,1971;
Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project suffered initial delays caused in part by delays in
receipt of the required counterpart funds, which are now included in
the budget of the State of Sao Paulo. All the water and sewerage
companies in the state have been incorporated into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with SABESP was concluded on
December 18, 1974. Because of the reorganization of the sector and
of management problems which are now resolved, the Closing Date,
originally June 30, 1975 has been postponed to June 30, 1977. The
execution of the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:    US$15 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
A review of the original design of the project resulted in its
modification to exclude the discharge of raw sewage and a related
treatment facility. As a result of the modifications in the project,
the loan amount was reduced to US$12 million. The Government has
consolidated all the water and sewerage companies in the state into
a single company, SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the
new company was concluded December 18, 1974. The Description of the
Project has been slightly modified again because of changes in the
Investment Plan. Because of the reorganization of the sector and of
management problems which are now resolved, the Closing Date,
originally June 30, 1975, has been postponed to June 30, 1977. The
execution of the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
786       Railway Project - MBR:   US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and equip-
ping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of
equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a change in the
location of the workshop resulting from the Government's decision to
build a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda. To allow additional time required for the purchase
of this equipment, the Closing Date, originally September 30, 1975,
was postponed to March 31, 1978.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$736 million, an
increase of about 83% over the appraisal estimate due to design
evolution, unforeseen site works and increases in local construc-
tion costs. This cost increase will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now physic-
ally complete--about one year behind the appraisal schedule.
The original Closing Date was July 1, 1976.
812       USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$63 million loan
of April 11, 1972; Effective Date: July 28, 1972; Closing Date:
June 1, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$975 million, an
increase of about 70% over the appraisal estimate, due primarily
to design evolution and increases in local construction costs.
This cost increase will not significantly affect the economic
justification of the project. The project is complete (twelve
months behind the original schedule). Implementation of Stage III,
which is not being financed by the Bank, is well underway. The
original Closing Date was June 1, 1976, and a further postponement
is expected to be agreed shortly.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:    US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Effective Date: December 4, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977. Construction works are more than 98% completed
but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated total contract
cost is about 2% above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility
studies and detailed engineering financed under the loan were
started later than planned, but are now completed at a cost
substantially below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements
have improved during the past year, but are still lagging behind
the appraisal forecast. The Closing Date, originally June 30,
1976, has been postponed to June 30, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:   US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: January 15, 1978. The latest cost estimate is US$758
million, an increase of about 60% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will
not significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now 75% complete and is about nine months behind
the original schedule. The original Closing Date was January 15,
1976.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:   US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Prolect:   US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. The settlement agency, COLONE, has prepared revised farm
development plans whose credit component, to be financed by public
financial institutions, will be significantly higher than originally
estimated, although still low in comparison to other settlement
projects. Administrative delays in the release of public funds for
farm credit and COLONE working capital requirements and difficulties
in recruiting project staff delayed the start of project execution.
COLONE continues to be hampered by lack of assured financing, and
this problem is compounded by cost overruns, which presently amount
to 130% over appraisal estimates. The project must now be considered
to have major financial problems.
887       Light-Power Distribution and Subtransmission Project:    US$20 million
loan of April 16, 1973; Effective Date: July 31, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977. Principally due to difficulties encountered in pre-
paring bidding documents and delays in deliveries of equipment and
materials, the project is about two years behind schedule. Complete
delivery and installation of the bulk of these items is likely to be
accomplished by June 30, 1977. However, installation of oil-filled
cables may require an additional six months and a postponement of
the Closing Date may be required.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:   US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of the earth-fill dam has been delayed by about
nine months due to very heavy rains. However, construction of the
concrete dam and power house is ahead of schedule. FURNAS expects
to complete the power plant in December 1981, about four months
behind schedule. The present cost estimate is about 88% over the
appraisal cost estimate, 13% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size of the
transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:   US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were
made during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance
with the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by
the Government. The Central Bank is presently revising credit
procedures for this loan to conform with the Loan Agreement.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:    US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. Resettlement of the 9,700 families to be dis-
placed by the Sobradinho reservoir is underway, and construction
of new towns to house the urban portion of the population has begun.
The rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses will be resettled in new villages
on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule. Construction of the transmission lines and sub-stations
is about 18 months behind schedule.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:   US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date:   January 9, 1975; Closing Date:   August 15,
1977. The State Water Supply Company changed its name from Companhia
Mineira de Agua e Esgotos (COMAG) to Companhia de Saneamento de Minas
Gerais (COPASA-MG). Due to subproject preparation problems that
are now resolved, disbursements have been substantially behind
schedule. However, the loan is now fully committed to 43 sub-
projects, of which 20 are already under construction. The project
will probably be completed by June 1978 and a postponement of the
Closing Date will be required.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1067      Second Education Project:   US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution has started reasonably well, and is ex-
pected to be completed by the target date. Project implementation
units have been established in all eight project states and these,
together with the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The
pre-investment studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan,
have been completed and are expected to yield useful information for
future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. The financial situation
of the Borrower deteriorated seriously in 1975 and 1976 because of
increased costs of materials and higher social charges which were
not matched by adequate tariff increases. The borrower intends to
revise its tariffs on a quarterly basis, and to reach full cost
recovery by 1978. Procurement is progressing reasonably well,
although slower than expected.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Contracts for
civil works for all 21 lots have now been awarded and construction
works are proceeding generally on schedule, except for three con-
tracts. Implementation of the road maintenance component of the
project has been delayed by about 15 months due to protracted
negotiations for the hiring of consultants.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:   US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. As a result of these difficulties CSN has contracted
consultancy services who have reviewed the project scope with a view
to trimming capital costs and to helping improve project management.
The project is about 12 months behind the original schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:   US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. Procurement for equipment is about
75% complete. The project is 12 months behind schedule. A decision
to change from a cold mill to a plate mill is being considered due
to changes in forecast demand. The effect of this change on the
economic justification of the project is being investigated.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:   US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. Construction of dikes and the
irrigation and drainage system for the Betume varzea has begun.
Bidding for most of the other civil works and equipment procure-
ment is underway. Preliminary estimates, prior to bid evalua-
tion, are that project costs might increase considerably over
the appraisal estimate due to partial design changes and more
rapid than expected increases in equipment and construction
prices and in costs of land expropriation. The emergency works
remain the least cost way to offset the effects of the upstream
hydroelectric developments on the project area population.
Nevertheless, further possible modifications in the design of
emergency and irrigation works are being studied by CODEVASF and
its consultants with a view to limiting cost increases.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):   US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Terms of reference
have been approved for the Transport Master Plan for Sao Paulo, and
for the technical assistance program intended to improve FEPASA's
operations, marketing and data processing systems. Procurement is
progressing reasonably well. The financial situation of FEPASA
deteriorated in 1975 due to lower than forecast traffic, cost
inflation and salary increases, while tariffs were not increased
correspondingly. FEPASA intends to revise its tariffs on a quar-
terly basis, and to reach full cost recovery by 1978.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:   US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1206      Development Banking Project:   US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
Initial commitment of funds under this project was delayed until
after January 1, 1977, by differences between the relending terms
of the agencies concerned and those required under the Loan Agree-
ment. Those differences have now been resolved, and commitment of
the loan is proceeding.



ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:   US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. The project is proceeding according to
schedule.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:   US$40.0 million loan of April 27,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is proceeding according to
schedule. Civil engineering for 21 experiment stations is well
advanced.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:   US$52 million loan of March 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:   US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:   US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effecive Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:   US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. The project is proceeding according
to schedule.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:    US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. The project is proceeding
according to schedule.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:   US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
are not expected to begin before 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:   approximately 7 months
(from May 1976 to November 1976).
(b)  Project prepared by:  Ministry of Labor, SENAI, SENAC and FUNDACENTRO.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:   February 1976.
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   November 8, 1976.
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:   May 9, 1977.
(f)  Planned Deadline for Effectiveness:   September 30, 1977.
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) As conditions for loan effectiveness:
(i) the Ministry of Labor would enter into agreements satisfactory
to the Bank with SENAI, SENAC and FUNDACENTRO defining their
respective responsibilities under the project, and would
prepare operating programs satisfactory to the Bank for the
SENAR and SINE components of the project (para 47);
(ii) a Project Unit would be established within the Ministry of
Labor (para 47).
(b) As conditions of disbursement under the proposed loan for
specific project components, the respective agencies would:
(i) for the staff training courses for instructors and super-
visors of SENAI and SENAC, draw up acceptable contracts
between the Ministry of Labor, SENAI/SENAC and the
collaborating instructor training institution(s)
(para 46);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(ii) for the SENAR component, sign agreements acceptable to the Bank
between SENAR and collaborating agricultural agencies (para 40);
(iii)  for the purchase of equipment for FUNDACENTRO's eight
regional centers, submit to the Bank evidence of acquisition
or rental of suitable premises by the Government (para 41);
and
(iv)  for the holding of a seminar by SINE on organizing employment
information and establishing placement programs, afford the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on the detailed
agenda and financing plan for such seminar (para 42).






70\   E>-      ,,7 eoi  ~)1,CGEORGETOWN5'              4'403'
i.- aQ  -  ).  . _PARAMARIBO
r         >5 ~~~~~V E N E Z U E L A N\C.  5f
C O l O M B I A ')     I>      ~        I;8fUA$
,N\      >OAIA                   >   v                 A I L A N T I C OC EA N
t~~~~~~~~ eNls ig<V OI 1(_
_~~~~~1                                            't APA'                    0     RIIE
JAPL R  k VE O DO  I                                  EL E>/     'CmcoiEGP
M     A   ;.Z<      f                 >   \t 
P\       Al ,'   d;3EIN -                            DE
\,,  /   ;   GOIANIA Canab ff  ird  !!~ ~ E NOTE,,ATA
BRAZIL   t}   7          - /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT i >/r _r-l l_N A S GgElCl3canto9em)lszerro-~~~~~~~~~AfAl B A "A C
m  lSSEeqAI-VseoIIonsl Trumins feners   92g   Compo Gronde   ty   V  - P  I A 
StA-Hs2lShos,l                    eRX SA   AUO   $ 7/t                           2
>- ^ telc2nser2nd 4 p ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,PP_>SooeRSNiaMBsC AECIFO
RIO~ ~~~~~~~~~' BRANCANPOI                                         \t     A ZIL.
FJ   +  /   Sopucoio /i f            V  >  r.C.~~~~~~~~~~~~AA  IL.  g
:NC. ~    ~      i                                                         A 10GADEOA zS > y 
@ ~~ t<\  D0 SUL ,0ag0 ALEGRE    9: C 1 92 ) r.. b~~~~~~~~~l
t           .5t4S .(    \^     >                               ts [l  3 H~~~~~~~~~~~~qERG 
rtnal2nFlS_lcforCons/ldlADr2nbqp   i   tt  R,M   A  T \ 0 /  BloXss2  29  Hr I9 A7  i   o   e   L   C A
3/Ndu21 F22af on 10. /11nDd ,SShUlV. h/gffl e lmd 2~~~~~~dldar t+{ " pY 0 192 20.2 r OP V r _"\
7,5'   7p'   2jr   BUENOS  A l R t,, > t/   rr   xS'   f    ar   20'   r   r  bJ~~~



