Report No. 1549a-BR                                                                  L
Appraisal of a Vocational
Training Project Brazil
May 26, 1977
Education Projects Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(As of May 12, 1977)
Currency Unit              =              Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                                      Cr$ 13.65
Cr$1                       5              US$  0.073
Cr$ million                =              US$ 73,260
Measures
1 M2                                       10.76 sq. ft.
Acronyms
CENAFOR           Centro Nacional de Aperfeiioamento de Pessoal              National Center for Vocational Training
CNRH              Centro Nacional de Recursos Humanos                        National Center for Human Resources
DASP              Departamento de Administra go do Servico Publico           Administrative Department for Civil Servants
DNMO              Departamento Nacional de MWo-de-Obra                       National Manpower Department
EMATER            Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e                Brazilian Agency for Technical Assistance and
Extensao Rural (Estadual)                                 Rural Extension (at State level)
EMBRATER          Empresa Brasileira de AssistAncia Tecnica e                Brazilian Agency for Technical Assistance and
Extensgo Rural (Federal)                                   Rural Extension (at Federal Level)
FUNDACENTRO       Fundacgo Nacional de Seguran,a, Higiene e                  National Foundation for Occupational Safety,
Medicina do Trabalho                                       Hygiene and Medicine
PIPMO             Programa Intensivo de Preparacafo de Mao-de-Obra           Intensive Program for Manpower Training
POLONORDESTE      Polo de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste                        Northeast Development Pole
SENAC             Servico  Nacional de Aprendizagem Comercial                National Service for Commercial Apprenticeship
SENAI          - Servico Nacional de Aprendizagem Industrial                 National Service for Industrial Apprenticeship
SENAR        >   Servis o Nacional de Formas,o Profissional Rural           National Service for Rural Training
SINE              Sistema Nacional de Emprego                                National Employment System
Government of Brazil Fiscal Year
January 1 to Deceiber 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................             i - iv
I.   INTRODUCTION .....................................................  
II.   DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND HUMAN RESOURCES
IMPLICATIONS ...................................................  3
III.   VOCATIONAL TRAINING IN BRAZIL ...................                   6
Issues in Organization and Management .........               6
Industrial Training ...........................               9
Services Sector Training          ......................      9
Rural Training ....... .........................             10
Occupational Safety and Health
Training        ....................................      11
Employment Services ......        ........................   12
IV. THE PROJECT ................   13
Objectives and Content ........... .. ...........            13
Industrial Training (SENAI) ..          .................    14
Commercial Training (SENAC) ...................              15
Hotel Training (SENAC) ........... .. ...........            15
Occupational Safety and Health
Training (FUNDACENTRO) .....        .................      16
Rural Training (SENAR) ........................              17
Employment Services (SINE) ......... ...........             18
Manpower Studies (Ministry of Labor) ........ ..             19
Technical Assistance ......        ....................      19
Evaluation    ....................................           20
Cost of the Project ............ ...............             20
Project Recurrent Costs ........... .. ..........            22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during November/December 1976. The mission comprised Messrs. R.
Hemingway (technical educator), A Tobelem (economist), J. Levine (economist,
consultant), Y. Tencalla (agricultural educator) and R. Corradine (architect).
This document has a rctricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.  IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS ....    ...............  23
Project Administration .....  ...................  23
P'rofessional and Technical Services ...........   24
Implementation Schedule ................... ....   24
Sites .      ........................................  24
Maintenance   ...................................  25
Procurement   ...... .............................  25
Disbursements   ...... ...........................  25
VI.  BENEFITS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES ..................     25
Benefits   ......................................  25
Risks and Uncertainties ................... ....   26
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....  ..........  27
ANNEXES
1.  Population (1970-1985)
2.  GDP, Employment and Productivity (1970-1985)
3.  Employment and Training Needs - Primary Sector
4.  Project States-Employment and Training Needs-Secondary Sector
5.  Employment and Training Needs-Hotel and Catering Industries and
Related Activities
6.  Selected State and Territories-Employment and Training Needs-
Commercial and Services Sector
7.  Annual Output from Project Institutions and Mobile Action (1981)
8.  Activities of PIPMO and SENAR
9.  Occupational Accidents (1970-1975)
10.  Output of FUNDACENTRO Network (1981)
11.  Occupational Safety and Hygiene Campaign-Rate of Return Analysis
12.  Staff Training Program for SINE
13.  National Vocational Training System, SENAI, SENAC and FUNDACENTRO:
Organization Charts
14.  Technical Assistance Schedule
15.  Estimated Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
16.  SENAI:  Summary of Estimated Costs
17.  SENAC:  Summary of Estimated Costs
18.  FUNDACENTRO:  Summary of Estimated Costs
19.  Summary of Total Project Costs
20   Contingency Allowances
21.  Estimated Recurrent Expenditures and Unit Costs of SENAI Project
Items (1981)
22.  Estimated Recurrent Expenditures and Unit Costs of SENAC Project
Items (1981)
23.  Hotel Schools:  Financial Analysis



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
24.   Budget and Estimated Recurrent Expenditures of SENAR Project
Item (1981)
25.   Project Unit.  Proposed Organization Chart
26.   Implementation Schedule
27.   Disbursement Schedule
28.   Comparative Education Indicators
MAP






BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project which is designed to assist the
Government of Brazil in strengthening the capacity of its Ministry of Labor
to coordinate and rationalize the expansion of the country's major public
and private vocational training agencies, with a view towards alleviating
shortages of middle-level, skilled and semi-skilled manpower in all sectors
of the economy in accordance with established development priorities. In
addition to this institution-building effect, the project would provide for
a substantial increase in vocational training opportunities in selected sub-
sectors and geographic areas, through the physical facilities to be financed.
Finally, the project would complement the aforementioned efforts in vocational
training through the expansion nationwide of an employment information and
placement system and an occupational safety and health training program.
ii.       This would be the Bank's third loan for the development of education
and training in Brazil. The first, Loan 755-BR (US$8.4 million, signed in
June 1971), supported the expansion and improvement of 16 federal agricultural
and industrial schools at the secondary and post-secondary levels. The second,
Loan 1067-BR (US$23.5 million, signed in December 1974), supported implemen-
tation of a national education reform at the basic and secondary levels in
eight North and Northeastern states. Despite some initial problems with the
first project, both are now being implemented satisfactorily. The proposed
third project would complement these ongoing operations in the formal education
system with assistance to nonformal vocational training to meet the needs of
the economy for trained manpower.
iii.      Between 1970-75, Brazil experienced high rates of economic growth,
which were accompanied by rapid expansion of employment opportunities (3.7
percent annually), such that by the end of the period the supply of skilled
manpower could hardly meet demand. Overall industrial employment increased at
an annual rate of 5.5 percent. In commerce and services, the annual growth
rate was 4.9 percent. Agricultural employment tended to stagnate, growing at
an annual rate of only 1.6 percent and throughout the period there was a
marked shift of labor out of agriculture and rapid urbanization. Although
economic growth has slowed during 1975-76 and is likely to be more moderate
for the next several years, the prospects in the medium and long-run are very
favorable. However, while the absolute number of new entrants to the labor
force over the next decade will be adequate to meet demand, their low skill
level will place increasingly serious constraints on economic growth.
The formal education system has been expanding rapidly and at present reaches
86 percent of the school age group (7-14 years), but some 80 percent of adults
have not completed primary education and illiteracy rates are high at 36
percent of the total labor force (50-60 percent in agriculture). Nonformal
vocational training, organized by both the public and private sectors has had



- ii -
a fairly long tradition in Brazil, dating back to 1942, but there has been
limited coordination and no common strategy among the various programs, and
the private sector has not been particularly active in organizing direct
in-plant training schemes. Training standards have varied widely throughout
the country, and most training plans have been designed without adequate
prior assessment of the labor market.
iv.       Aware of the increasingly serious prospects of skilled labor short-
ages and of the low productivity levels prevailing in many sectors, the Govern-
ment has taken several important steps in the last few years to marshall the
training resources available in the country and to encourage the development
of new ones in support of its investment priorities. First, in 1974 the
Ministry of Labor and Social Security was separated into two Ministries, and
the new Ministry of Labor was selected as the vehicle, inter alia, for coor-
dinating, eliminating gaps and rationalizing the expansion of vocational
training in Brazil to provide the expanding economy with sufficient skilled
manpower. At the same time, a major nonformal training program previously
operated by the Ministry of Education was transferred to the Ministry of
Labor. Secondly, in 1975 a tax incentive law was promulgated which enables
enterprises financing their own training activities to deduct twice the
expenditure on training from their taxable income. During the first six
months after enactment of the law, about 1,000 training proposals were sub-
mitted to the Ministry of Labor for approval. Finally, in April 1976 a decree
was approved establishing a National Vocational Training System, which com-
prises all of the public and private vocational training agencies in Brazil.
The System will be operated by a Federal Council of Manpower composed of
representatives of the Ministries of Planning, Finance, Education and Labor,
of workers' and employers' organizations, and of the Confederations of Industry
and Commerce. Under a second decree, recently approved in March 1977, the
Council has the responsibility for establishing national vocational training
policies in support of the goals and objectives of the national development
plan and of introducing suitable programs to implement these policies. In
practice, the Ministry of Labor will function as a technical secretariat to
the Council and will be responsible for executing the Council's decisions,
either directly or through the existing training agencies.
v.        The proposed project is designed to support the Government's efforts
to establish the National Vocational Training System by strengthening the
capacity of its Ministry of Labor. At full operation in 1981, the project
would provide a total additional annual output of 40,000 trainees from courses
of varying duration in commerce, tourism and industry. Rural mobile training
programs would be expanded by about 250,000 persons annually, and the employ-
ment service and occupational safety and health training programs would
be expanded to have nationwide coverage. Although the absolute figures are
relatively small in the overall Brazilian context, the training facilities to
be provided will make a substantial impact on the geographic areas where they
will be located. Also, since they represent a sizeable share of the planned
investment program for the next five years of the participating training
agencies, they will permit the Ministry of Labor, through which loan funds
will be channelled and which will be responsible for managing project im-
plementation, to become actively involved in guiding the expansion of these
agencies. Specifically, the proposed project would include:



- iii -
(a) the construction, furnishing and equipping of:
- twelve industrial training centers
- three hotel training schools
- three commercial training centers
- a national headquarters/training center for
occupational safety and health training
(b) equipment for:
- one existing industrial training center
- eight regional occupational safety and health training
centers, the buildings for which will be provided by
the Government
- 180 rural mobile training units
(c) staff training for:
- 600 instructors and supervisors of the industrial,
commercial and hotel training schools
- 2,525 administrators and other staff of the national
employment information and placement system
(d) the costs of:
- studies on the labor market and follow-up of students
- preparation of instructional materials for hotel, catering
and related trades
(e) technical assistance in the form of:
- 36-2/3 man-years of specialists' services
- 27-1/4 man-years of fellowships
- a seminar on employment information and placement services
(f) selected project administration costs, including:
- 100 percent of the salaries of six Project Unit staff
during project implementation
- consulting services to the Project Unit.
vi.       Project administration would be a cooperative venture on the part of
the Ministry of Labor and the vocational training agencies. A special Project
Unit would be established within the Ministry of Labor, reporting to the Vice
Ilinister, to assist in coordinating implementation and maintaining financial
control over the project. The Project Unit would collaborate with the Secret-
aries of Manpower, Employment and Wages, and Labor Relations. The functions
and responsibilities of the Project Unit, the Secretaries and the training agen-
cies, the implementation schedules, procedures for the transfer of Bank loan
funds and local counterpart financing, and the procurement arrangements to be



- iv -
used under the project would all be detailed in subsidiary agreements between
the Ministry and the independent training agencies and in intra-Ministerial
work programs for those agencies/services which are actually part of the
Ministry.  The Project Unit would comprise a full-time director, architect,
civil engineer, vocational training specialist, programmer and accountant.
The loan would reimburse the salaries of these six staff and 2-1/2 man-years
of consultant services to assist the Project Unit in procurement matters.
vii.      All civil works contracts expected to exceed US$3.0 million and
equipment contracts (except for vehicles) would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Civil works contracts for lesser amounts and all contracts for furniture and
vehicles would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
However, such furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped into packages
of at least US$50,000 may be purchased in accordance with regular Government
procurement procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. The total value
of items purchased in this manner would not exceed US$3,800,000 (equivalent
to about 15 percent of the total estimated value of furniture and equipment).
Domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin in bid evalu-
ation of 15 percent of the c.i.f. price or the prevailing tariff, whichever
is lower.
viii.     The total cost of the project would be US$92.51 million.  The pro-
posed loan of US$32.0 million, equivalent to 35 percent of total project
costs, would finance 94 percent of the foreign exchange component (US$15.47
million) and 22 percent of local costs (US$16.53 million). The UNDP would
finance US$1.5 million of technical assistance costs under a project, for part
of which the ILO would be the executing agency. The Federal Government and
the training agencies would finance the balance of project costs. The loan
would be disbursed over a 5-1/2 year period, with construction ending in five
years and the project completed by June 30, 1982. Disbursements would
finance: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures or 26% of local expenditures for
equipment; (b) 35% of total expenditures for site development, selected pro-
fessional services, construction, furniture, staff training, studies and
teaching materials production; and (c) 100% of selected technical assistance
and project administration expenditures.
ix.       The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$32.0 million to the Federative Republic of Brazil for a period of
17 years, including a grace period of 3-1/2 years.
May 26, 1977



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Brazil has requested Bank assistance in financing
a project designed to assist its Ministry of Labor in coordinating and ration-
alizing the expansion of the major public and private vocational training
agencies in the country, with a view towards alleviating shortages of middle-
level, skilled and semi-skilled manpower in the primary, secondary and tertiary
sectors of the economy in accordance with established development priorities.
In addition to this institution-building effect, the project would provide for
a substantial increase in vocational training opportunities in selected sub-
sectors and geographic areas, through the physical facilities to be financed.
Finally, the project would complement the aforementioned efforts in vocational
training through the expansion nationwide of an employment information and
placement system and an occupational safety and health program, also through
the Ministry of Labor. A Bank loan of US$32.0 million is proposed to finance
35 percent of total project costs (US$92.51 million), including the 94 percent
of the foreign exchange component (US$15.47 million) and 22 percent (US$16.53
million) of local currency costs. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including a grace period of 3-1/2 years. The UNDP would finance US$1.5 million
of project costs related to technical assistance, and the Federal Government
and the training agencies would finance the balance of total project costs.
1.02      This would be the Bank's third loan for the development of education
and training in Brazil.  The first two projects addressed primarily the needs
of children and young adults within the formal education system. Loan 755-BR
(US$8.4 million, signed in June 1971) supported the expansion and improvement
of 16 federal agricultural and industrial schools at the secondary and post-
secondary levels.  The project is about 30 months behind appraisal estimates
due mainly to initial difficulties in setting up the project unit, government
changes and sporadic shortages of some building materials, but it should be
completed by the revised Closing Date of December 31, 1977.  Some 80 percent
of construction has been completed and furniture and equipment procured, and
the technical assistance program is proceeding satisfactorily. A cost overrun
of about 20 percent, mainly in civil works, is being financed by the Govern-
ment. The second Bank Loan, 1067-BR (US$23.5 million, signed in December 1974),
supported implementation of a national education reform at the basic and
secondary levels in eight North/Northeastern states. The project is on
schedule and should be completed by the December 31, 1979 Closing Date; thus
far, there have been no changes in total project cost estimates. A recent
administrative merger of the units responsible for implementation of the first
and second education projects should improve the efficiency of the second and
relatively less experienced unit.
1.03      Initial discussions with the Government about a possible third
education project commenced in February 1976 when a Bank reconnaissance
mission visited the country. It was decided that while further assistance to
the formal education system was appropriate and would be supported under
future Bank projects, the more immediate priority was to complement those



- 2 -
efforts by assistance to nonformal vocational training to meet short and
medium-term manpower needs of the economy. In May 1976 a Bank identification
mission reached tentative agreement with the Government on the possible
content of the third project, which was then prepared locally. In August 1976
a Bank mission, with support from ILO specialists in industrial training,
rural training, hotel training, occupational safety and health training and
employment services, preappraised the project and assisted the Government
in finalizing preparation. The project was appraised in November/December
1976 by a Bank mission comprising Messrs. R. Hemingway (technical educator),
A. Tobelem (economist), J. Levine (economist, consultant), Y. Tencalla
(agricultural educator) and R. Corradine (architect).
1.04      The project, as modified during appraisal, would finance:
(a) the construction, furnishing and equipping of:
-    twelve industrial training centers
-    three hotel training schools
-    three commercial training centers
-    a national headquarters/training center for
occupational safety and health training
(b) equipment for!
-    one existing industrial training center
-    eight regional occupational safety and health training
centers, the buildings for which will be provided by
the Government
-    180 rural mobile training units
(c) staff training for:
-    600 instructors and supervisors of the industrial,
commercial and hotel training schools
-    2,525 administrators and other staff of the national
employment information and placement system
(d) the costs of:
-    studies on the labor market and follow-up of students
-    preparation of intructional materials for hotel,
catering and related trades
(e)  technical assistance in the form of:
-    36-2/3 man-years of specialists' services
-    27-1/4 man-years of fellowships
-    a seminar on employment information and placement
services



- 3 -
(f) selected project administration costs, including:
-    100 percent of the salaries of six Project Unit staff
during project implementation
-    consulting services to the Project Unit.
During project appraisal a proposed staff training center to provide
high level directive personnel (training managers, planners and analysts)
in vocational training was eliminated because alternative means of providing
the services were identified through existing institutions and programs, and
one commercial and one industrial training center were eliminated because
of inadequate manpower justification.
II.   DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND HUMAN RESOURCES IMPLICATIONS
2.01      Between 1970-75, Brazil experienced high rates of economic growth,
which were accompanied by rapid expansion of employment opportunities (3.7
percent annually), such that by the end of the period the supply of skilled
manpower could hardly meet demand. Overall industrial employment increased at
an annual rate of 5.5 percent. In commerce and services, the annual growth
rate was 4.9 percent. Agricultural employment tended to stagnate, growing at
an annual rate of only 1.6 percent and throughout the period there was a
marked shift of labor out of agriculture and rapid urbanization. Although
economic growth has slowed during 1975-76 and is likely to be more moderate
for the next several years, the prospects in the medium and long-run are very
favorable. However, while the absolute number of new entrants to the labor
force over the next decade will be adequate to meet demand, their low skill
level will place increasingly serious constraints on economic growth. The
formal education system has been expanding rapidly and at present reaches 86
percent of the school age group (7-14 years), but some 80 percent of adults
have not completed primary education and illiteracy rates are high at 36
percent of the total labor force (50-60 percent in agriculture). Nonformal
vocational training, organized by both the public and private sectors has had
a fairly long tradition in Brazil, dating back to 1942, but there has been
limited coordination and no common strategy among the various programs, and
the private sector has not been particularly active in organizing direct
in-plant training schemes. Training standards have varied widely throughout
the country, and most training plans have been designed without adequate
prior assessment of the labor market.
2.02      Labor Force and Employment.  Rapid growth in employment represented
a favorable feature of Brazil's dynamic economic development during the 1970-75
period. During these years the employed adult labor force increased by 5.2
million (i.e. about 1,000,000 per year), of which some 1.2 million were in
agriculture and 4.0 million in non-agricultural activities. This represents
a growth rate of 3.7 percent per year. The main characteristics of this
period were: (a) rapid growth in employment in all regions, but particularly



in Sgo Paulo and the Northeast; (b) a shift of labor out of agriculture;
(c) rapid urbanization; (d) a rise in the share of the urban labor force
engaged in informal activities; and (e) an increase in the inequality in the
distribution of urban wage income. About 55 percent of the total employed were
wage earners in 1975, the remaining 45 percent being self-employed.
2.03      In 1975, the Brazilian labor force totalled 34.1 million, of which
32.4 million were employed (38 percent in agriculture, 19 percent in industry,
38 percent in services, and 5 percent unemployed). The labor force is expected
to increase at a rate of 3.1 percent in the future, reflecting the high popu-
lation growth rate of 2.8 percent per year (4.3 percent in the cities) and the
young age structure of the population (Annex 1). The 0-14 year age group will
increase from 45 million in 1975 to 57 million in 1985, when it will represent
about 41 percent of the total population. The average number of new workers
entering the labor force over the next decade will be about 1.2 million
annually, one-third in the North, Northeast and Center West regions and two-
thirds in the South and Southeast regions. The participation rate of women in
the labor force is expected to increase more quickly than in the past as the
average size of families decreases, education opportunities are expanded and
urbanization increases.
2.04      Skill Level of the Labor Force.  The skill level of the labor force
in Brazil is low. Although the education system has been expanding very
rapidly and at present reaches 86 percent of the relevant age group (7-14
years), some 80 percent of the labor force has not completed primary education.
Illiteracy, which affects about 36 percent of the total labor force (19 percent
in the urban sector) according to the latest census, is particularly high in
the agricultural sector (50-60 percent) and contributes to the serious regional,
economic and social imbalances which continue to affect Brazilian development.
The low educational attainments in the rural sector are accompanied by an
absence of technical preparation which restricts the optimal use of modern
techniques in agricultural and livestock production. Furthermore, the need to
increase the productivity of Brazilian workers is considered by the Government
as an essential element for further development of all sectors. Progress in
achieving this objective is expected in the long-run because of the rapid
expansion of formal education for the school age groups (the future labor
force). However, in the short-run most of the present Brazilian labor force
needs intensive training, particularly those adults who are among the majority
which never completed basic education (Annex 2).
2.05      Wages.  Between 1967-75, industrial wages improved by 27 percent
in real terms. The proportion of the labor force working in the higher
paying, dynamic sectors increased most rapidly, leading to a substantial
increase in earning inequality and a significant skewing in the wage struc-
ture. The increase in wages was 2.2 percent a year for employees earning
between one and four times the minimum wage, but 8.9 percent for those earning
more than 70 times the minimum wage.



2.06      Manpower Requirements in the Agricultural Sector.  Overall growth
in agricultural employment is expected to increase rather slowly from about
13 million in 1975 to only 14 million in 1985. However, in order to meet the
objectives of the Government's programs in the agricultural sector, consider-
able training efforts will be required to raise the productivity of farmers
and other rural workers. The use of insecticides, increased mechanization and
the expanded availability of rural credit are foreseen. The adoption and use
of such new techniques and practices must be accompanied by programs to pre-
pare the rural labor force. For the most part, requirements are for fairly
short courses for about 650,000 rural workers per year from 1975-85, of whom
about 40,000 would be self-employed persons requiring more intensive training
in administrative skills relating to credit schemes and marketing. About 75
percent of the workers would be involved in direct agricultural production
activities, such as crop raising, and animal husbandry, and 25 percent in
activities such as agricultural mechanics and artisan works. These overall
needs may be compared with the present capacity of the rural training agencies
of about 114,000 per year (Annex 3).
2.07      Manpower Requirements of Industry.  Growth in industrial employment,
by an estimated 220,000 persons per year through 1985, is likely to be concen-
trated in manufactured exports like chemicals, plastics, transport equipment
and mechanical and metallurgical products, and in substitution of manufactured
imports in both the intermediate and capital goods categories, like steel,
automobiles and fertilizers. Considerable additional vocational training of
the new labor force entrants and upgrading of the skills of existing workers
will be required (Annex 4). The main training needs are in the mechanical and
electrical trades, especially for repairmen and technicians. There seems to
be an especially acute need in the Northeast and Southeast regions. One of
the objectives of Government policy is to redistribute industrial activity
geographically so as to achieve a more equitable inter-regional distribution
of employment opportunities and to strengthen small and medium-scale indus-
trial enterprises.
2.08      Manpower Requirements in the Tourism, Commerce and Other Services
Sector. It is estimated that in the tertiary sector about 750,000 new jobs
will be created annually through 1985, and tourism employment as a whole will
increase twofold by 1985. In the hotel and catering industries 26,600 new
jobs would be generated annually from 1981 onwards. The rest of the tertiary
sector development will be in commerce, transport and other services, result-
ing from the spill-over effects of industrial development and from special
federal projects of economic and social assistance to the poorest segments of
the North, Northeast and Center West regions (Annexes 5 and 6).
2.09      Employment Services.  Information about job vacancies and the place-
ment of workers is a responsibility of the Secretariat of Employment and Wages
of the Ministry of Labor, which has established a limited network of employ-
ment agencies. Because of inexperience and inefficiency, the existing system
is able to find jobs for only a limited number of unemployed workers. In
order to allow it to play an effective role in the Brazilian labor market,
there is a need to expand the network of employment agencies. The Secretariat



- 6 -
of Employment and Wages is establishing a National Employment System (SINE)
with state centers and local employment agencies throughout the country. To
implement the Svstem, an estimated 2,525 trained employees would be needed
by 1978 and some 1,700 employees per year thereafter would need upgrading.
2.10      Occupational Safety and Health.  The recent rapid pace of indus-
trialization has involved many processes and techniques that are new for the
labor force. As a result, there has been a very sharp increase in occupa-
tional accidents and work-related diseases. In 1975, there were two million
reported accidents, equivalent to a high 15 percent of the insured labor
force. The social and economic costs of this situation are very great. The
financial burden on the Social Security System has been heavy, even though
this System does not cover all workers. Through the use of its specialized
agency FUNDACENTRO (National Foundation for Occupational Safety, Hygiene and
Medicine) located in Sgo Paulo, the Government is starting a campaign to
reduce industrial accidents by implementing compulsory occupational safety
training schemes. The Secretariat of Labor Relations is responsible for
carrying out the program, which is expected to reach about 500,000 workers per
year (of the 1981 target group of 7.1 million industrial workers) when in full
operation, eventually reducing the accident rate to 6 percent of the insured
labor force by 1986.
III.   VOCATIONAL TRAINING IN BRAZIL
Issues in Organization and Management
3.01      Background.  Vocational training organized by both the public and
private sectors has a fairly long tradition in Brazil. In 1942 the Government
established the National Service for Industrial Apprenticeship (SENAI) under
the responsibility of the National Confederation of Industry, which represents
private industry. In 1946 similar action was taken to establish the National
Service for Commercial Apprenticeship (SENAC) under the responsibility of the
private National Confederation of Commerce. SENAI and SENAC are financed by
a 1% tax on the payrolls of industrial and commercial firms, respectively, and
therefore until recently both had financial and administrative independence
from the Government.
3.02      In 1963, the Intensive Program for Manpower Training (PIPMO) was
created as a dependency of the Ministry of Education and Culture, to provide
training mainly for employed workers not covered by the SENAI and SENAC
systems. Subsequently, in 1967 the Ministry of Labor and Social Security
organized the National Manpower Department (DNMO) to provide training for
unemployed workers. These two schemes arranged for training to be implemented
by existing agencies such as SENAI and SENAC, or by private firms or trade
unions. Having little overhead and no permanent training facilities, they
made flexible use of their resources, adjusting easily to new priorities.
In 1974, PIPMO absorbed the activities of DNMO and was itself taken over by
the Ministry of Labor's Secretariat of Manpower.



- 7 -
3.03      In the past there was limited coordination and no common strategy
between PIPMO, which was highly centralized within the Government, and SENAI
and SENAC which were independent from it. Furthermore, since private enter-
prises financed vocational training through the 1% tax on the payroll levies
for SENAI and SENAC, they felt that no further efforts were necessary on their
part. Only a few of the larger industrial enterprises, such as ELETROBRAS and
PETROBRAS introduced and operated their own in-plant training schemes to meet
specific requirements, and together with SENAI and SENAC they constructed some
fixed training centers. The limited initiative of the private sector as a whole
in establishing more in-plant training schemes has resulted in a situation
where most of the training has been in fixed centers with higher costs. Work
contracts for apprentices have been difficult to arrange, and finally, most
training plans were made without adequate prior assessment of the labor market.
3.04      In the field of rural training, the agricultural extension services
(EMBRATER and EMATER) 1/ are responsible for providing technical assistance
services to peasants and small-scale farmers.  PIPMO played a complementary
role in determining rural training needs and making agreements with the ex-
tension services and other agencies to provide the required training. However,
with no systematic assessment of the rural labor market, the different agencies
could not meet the full range of training needs implicit in recent agricultural
development policies.
3.05      Recent Developments.  Between 1970-75, the high rate of economic
growth put pressure on the labor market such that the supply of skilled man-
power could hardly meet the demand. Aware of this situation and of the above-
mentioned problems, the Government has taken several steps since 1974 to
improve coordination, eliminate gaps and rationalize expansion of vocational
training in Brazil.
(a) First, in 1974 the Ministry of Labor and Social Security was
separated into two Ministries. The new Ministry of Labor in turn
created three Secretariats to cover the areas of responsibility
assigned to it: Manpower, Employment and Wages, and Labor Relations.
The Secretariat of Manpower was charged with defining the action
required to provide the expanding economy with sufficient skilled
manpower. In December 1974, this Secretariat absorbed PIPMO,
transferred from the Ministry of Education (para. 3.02).
(b) Secondly, in 1975 a tax incentive law was promulgated which
enables enterprises financing their own training activities to
deduct twice the expenditure on training from their taxable
income. The Ministry of Labor is given the authority to
approve training activities financed under this scheme. During
the first six months after enactment of the law, about 1,000
training proposals were submitted to the Ministry of Labor by
1/   Empresa Brasileira de Assistancia T4cnica e ExtensAo Rural (EMBRATER)
at Federal level and Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao
Rural (EMATER) at state level.



- 8 -
both large and small firms grouped together. This is expected
to greatly increase demand for the services of SENAI and SENAC,
which will be called upon to execute many of the approved training
programs.
(c) Finally, in April 1976 the Ministry of Labor issued a decree
establishing a National Vocational Training System comprising all
the institutions concerned with vocational training in the country.
This System is to be operated by a Federal Council of Manpower
composed of representatives of the Ministries of Planning, Finance,
Education and Labor, of workers' and employers' organizations, and
of the Confederations of Industry and of Commerce. (Representatives
of these last two are the national directors of SENAI and SENAC,
respectively.) A second decree setting forth the functions and
composition of the Council was approved in March 1977. In general,
the Council, which held its first meetings in April 1977, has the
responsibility for establishing national vocational training
policies in support of the goals and objectives of the national
development plan and introducing suitable machinery for implementing
such policies. It will collaborate with the National Center for
Human Resources (CNRH), the research unit of the Secretariat of
Planning of the Presidency of the Republic, and the Secretariat of
Employment and Wages to improve techniques for collecting quanti-
tative and qualitative employment information for use in planning
vocational training nationwide (Annex 13). The Council will also
(i) promote the coordination of vocational training with formal
education; (ii) promote better coordination within the SENAI and
SENAC systems themselves and stimulate course standardization
nationwide with a view to establishing a national accreditation
system for recognized occupations; and (iii) undertake a research
program at the state and national levels aimed at improving training
methodology and evaluation techniques, and reducing unit costs. The
law also provides that SENAI's and SENAC's annual budgets have to be
approved by the Ministry of Labor. Finally, as the training of
instructors at all levels for the training agencies has become a
serious problem over the last five years, the Council will cooperate
with the National Center for Vocational Training (CENAFOR)--an
autonomous agency for the training of technical teachers and
instructors, established in 1969 with UNDP/ILO assistance and
financed through the Ministry of Education.
3.06      The abovementioned changes are designed to centralize decision-
making and reinforce the capacity of the Ministry of Labor to identify national
vocational training needs and decide which agency will do which part of the
job. Since the Secretariat of Manpower of the Ministry of Labor is a relatively
inexperienced body lacking sufficient numbers of qualified staff for these
purposes, it will have largely to rely for some time to come on the technical
expertise of the existing agencies. It has already received considerable
assistance from SENAI and SENAC during the initial phase of implementation of
the National Vocational Training System. In order to strengthen further its
position vis-a-vis the training agencies and enable it to cope with its new
responsibilities, the Ministry will require considerable support from locally
and internationally recruited specialists.



-9-
Industrial Training
3.07      Most industrial training in Brazil is organized by the National
Service for Industrial Apprenticeship (SENAI) in its 245 training centers or
through in-plant schemes in enterprises. SENAI is a highly decentralized
organization managed by the national and regional councils of the National
Confederation of Industry. The national council includes among its members
representatives of the Ministries of Education and Culture and of Labor (Annex
13). Courses offered ranged from the management to the semi-skilled worker
levels, with a total output of 430,000 in 1975 (290,000 from SENAI centers and
140,000 from in-plant training programs).  About 80 percent of the training in
centers is oriented towards adult workers and supervisory staff in short
courses where dropouts are negligible. The remaining 20 percent are students
of the formal education system who have access to the vocational training
centers to receive occupational training.  Many State Secretariats of Edu-
cation have contracts with SENAI and other training agencies for this purpose;
in 1975, 41,800 secondary students received training. Of the 140,000 persons
who received in-plant training in 1975, about 5 percent were apprentices and
95 percent were adult workers of whom about one-third were supervisory staff;
the main training areas were steelmaking industries (24%), electricity (14%),
railways (12%) and petrochemicals (11%).
3.08      Resulting from the 1% tax on the payroll of industrial firms, SENAI's
1975 budget of US$75 million (1977 prices) was 12% above its 1974 budget in
real terms. In 1976, the budget increased by 10% in real terms and the same
rate of increase is expected through 1981. There is some redistribution of
SENAI's budget among geographic regions: in 1975, 90% of the revenue originated
in the South and Southeast, although SENAI centers in these regions produced
only 83% of total graduates. The unit cost per SENAI student/hour (averaging
US$1.00) is slightly higher than in other similar Latin American institutions,
due mainly to higher instructor salaries and higher maintenance costs.
3.09      The main issues of the SENAI system are administrative and organiza-
tional. Administration is highly decentralized among autonomous states.
Within states, centers are loosely coordinated by the state councils of
the Confederation. As a result, there are wide variations in the relationship
between SENAI output and manpower requirements and there is no standardization
of course content and instructional methodology. Each state determines its
own curricula, length of courses, instructor/trainee ratio, training nethods
and workshop organization. There is no systematic and continuous assessment
of the labor market or clear evaluation system. In an effort to overcome
gradually this situation, the SENAI's National Directorate is introducing
planning at the federal level and a program of research on the functioning of
the labor market.
Services Sector Training
3.10      Training for the services sector is organized by the National
Service for Commercial Apprenticeship (SENAC) in its 76 training centers.
SENAC is a much more centralized organization than SENAI, with a National



- 10 -
Board responsible for the whole country comprising representatives of the
Ministries of Education and Culture, Labor, commercial enterprises, and
organized labor (Annex 13). Almost all training action is for adults and
supervisors in short courses organized in fixed centers. In 1975, less than
10 percent of the 290,000 persons trained by SENAC were trained in enter-
prises. The rest were trainees in apprenticeship (55 percent) and upgrading
(35 percent) courses in fixed centers. The main training areas were in
secretarial skills (44 percent), nursing (10 percent), and hotel and
catering (9 percent). In recent years SENAC has been experimenting with
so-called "pedagogic enterprises" for training in hotel and catering, beauty
and barbering occupations. These are institutions which finance their
training programs out of the profits of the services they provide to the
public. Trainees receive graduated stipends during their training. Two
hotel schools already operating (in Aguas de Sao Pedro and Barbacena) are
based on this methodology, and SENAC is planning to use the same approach in a
third hotel school under construction with IDB assistance, as well as in the
hotel schools to be constructed under the proposed project.
3.11      SENAC's 1975 budget of US$27 million (1977 prices) was 20% above
its 1974 budget in real terms. In 1976, the budget will increase by 18% and
a 10% rate of increase is expected thereafter through 1981. As in the case
of SENAI, there is some small redistribution of SENAC revenues from the South
and Southeast to the North, Northeast and Center West regions. Of the total
SENAC output of 290,000 trainees in 1975, 88% were in the South and Southeast
regions and only 12% in the North, Northeast and Center West regions. SENAC's
expansion program will improve somewhat this situation by 1981, when 76% of
the output will be in the South and Southeast regions and 24% in the North,
Northeast and Center West. The unit cost per SENAC student/hour (averaging
US$0.40-US$0.50) is lower than SENAI's because of lower instructor salaries
and maintenance costs. However, it varies substantially among courses (1-8
ratio of variation), mostly because of considerable differences in class
sizes.
3.12      The main problems of the SENAC system are technical.  No assessment
of the labor market is made before courses are planned, and there has been
little innovation in training methodology except for the pedagogical enter-
prise concept and a very recent effort aimed at offering programmed courses
for catering occupations. Finally, no systematic follow-up or tracer studies
are made. In an effort to overcome some of these difficulties, and in anti-
cipation of the substantial increase in its total output which SENAC plans by
1985, the National Directorate is planning to undertake manpower studies in
collaboration with the Secretariat of Manpower of the Ministry of Labor.
Rural Training
3.13      All the rural training activities and part of the staff of PIPMO
are being taken over by the National Service for Rural Training (SENAR), which
was created in 1976 and will be operated by the Ministry of Labor and financed
through 1978 by a special development fund earmarked for that purpose under a
presidential decree (Annex 8). SENAR will play an important role in analyzing



- 11 -
the rural labor market, defining training needs, offering training and
conducting continuous evaluation of training programs in collaboration with
the Ministry of Agriculture, EMBRATER, and local agricultural agencies,
cooperatives and farming enterprises. Training will emphasize mobile action
based on the experiences gained by PIPMO in the Sao Francisco River region.
SENAR will utilize instructor staff and technical personnel of the EMATER's
and other agencies, as well as provide some of its own instructors.
Occupational Safety and Health Training
3.14      In 1975, two million persons (i.e., about 15% of the insured indus-
trial work force) were involved in occupational accidents. Lost time due
to accidents of all kinds amounted to 354 million hours in the reporting estab-
lishments and the direct cost in wages lost was estimated at US$127 million,
which probably understates the case because accidents are routinely under-
reported (Annex 9). To this amount should be added medical and hospital costs
and indirect costs, such as those related to production interruptions and
damaged materials and equipment, which could amount to as much as four to six
times direct costs.
3.15      In the face of the increase in occupational accidents resulting from
the rapid industrial expansion, in 1972 the Government made compulsory the
establishment of specialized occupational safety, hygiene and health services
in enterprises employing more than 100 employees. The regulation indicates
the number of safety engineers, inspectors, nurses and factory medical officers
required to be employed according to the size and activities of the enterprise,
together with their duties and qualifications. Subsequent regulations intro-
duced in 1975 elaborate in more detail the steps to be taken against the
hazards in different industries and enterprises. The Government campaign to
reduce occupational accidents has been divided into three stages beginning in
1972: (a) to concentrate efforts on the 10,500 industrial enterprises each
employing more than 100 workers with a total of 6,890,000; (b) to extend the
action to the 670,000 enterprises each employing less than 100 workers with
a total of 6,110,000; and finally (c) to extend the action to agriculture.
3.16      The Secretariat of Labor Relations of the Ministry of Labor is
responsible for these activities, operating through its divisions attached to
regional offices of the Ministry located in the state capitals. It sets
standards, supervises enforcement and makes inspections as required. Training
and research are the responsibility of the National Foundation for Occupational
Safety, Hygiene and Medicine (FUNDACENTRO), a semi-autonomous agency under the
Secretariat of Labor Relations, which is financed by 0.5 percent of the basic
work-accident insurance contribution of enterprises (Decree 62172 of January
1968) and is managed by a curatorial council responsible for finance and a
deliberative council responsible for technical activities (Decree 77319 of
March 1976). The council members are nominated by the Minister of Labor
(Annex 13). At present FUNDACENTRO has a national center in Sao Paulo and



- 12 -
three small administrative branches in Rio de Janeiro, Brasllia and Recife,
all in rented premises. In future it plans to expand considerably its activi-
ties in Sao Paulo and to establish a network of eight regional centers to
cover the whole country.
Employment Services (SINE)
3.17      Plans for establishing an employment system in Brazil date back
to 1953, when a few placement offices were set up in connection with the Trade
Union Social Fund. Most of these offices were later absorbed into the regional
offices of the Ministry of Labor. In 1975, legislation was enacted establish-
ing the National Employment System (SINE), under which the Secretariat of
Employment and Wages in the Ministry of Labor is responsible for general policy,
technical guidance and financial assistance to the system, development of oper-
ational standards and procedures, and implementation of a program of staff
training. Each state wishing to participate in SINE must present to the
Secretariat of Employment and Wages a program conforming to established guide-
lines and must sign an agreement with the Ministry of Labor which specifies
the terms, conditions and financial assistance to be provided. By 1976, 17
SINE offices providing placement services were operational in Sao Paulo, Rio
Grande do Sul, Bahia, Santa Catarina and Piaul with a total of 656 technical
and administrative persons employed. In addition to the public employment
system, there are some 500 small private agencies registered with the Ministry
of Labor.
3.18      Due to the relatively short period of operation of the SINE offices,
critical assessment is difficult. Nevertheless, certain regional disparities
in approach are apparent which could lead to lack of comparable statistics
on job seekers, vacancies and employment levels, if not corrected. Govern-
ment s strategy is basically to improve the functioning of the labor market
through the expansion of a network of SINE employment offices, providing
free information, advice and placement services to job seekers; information
and recruitment services to employers; information on trends with regard
to training needs, job creation needs, migration and so on to policymakers.
Within the SINE framework a national office, 22 state offices, 52 local
offices for towns with between 200,000 and 500,000 inhabitants and 218 local
offices for towns with between 50,000 and 200,000 inhabitants would be estab-
lished. The national office, which would function within the Secretariat of
Employment and Wages, would be responsible for standardizing SINE's procedures,
analyzing regional labor market reports, articulating SINE programs with the
national employment policy, training SINE personnel and supervising state
agreements. The state offices would coordinate SINE's local activities with
the national office. The network of local offices, some located in the
project vocational training centers, would have the major responsibility for
developing the information, placement and follow-up services. To ensure
uniformity of approach in each participating state with regard to the organi-
zation and administration of the employment offices, the Secretariat of
Employment and Wages, plans also to arrange training and upgrading courses
for existing and future SINE staff, which is critical to the success of the
proposed expansion.



- 13 -
IV.   THE PROJECT
Objectives and Content
4.01      The proposed project would develop the capacity of the Ministry of
Labor to perform its functions within the newly established National Voca-
tional Training System (para. 3.05(c)). These are basically to coordinate
and rationalize expansion of the major public and private vocational training
agencies in the country, with a view towards alleviating shortages of middle-
level, skilled and semi-skilled manpower in all sectors of the economy in
accordance with established development priorities.  Be-ides this institution
building effect, the project would provide for a substantial increase in voca-
tional training opportunities in selected sub-sectors and geographic areas,
through the physical facilities to be financed. Finally, the project would
complement the aforementioned efforts in vocational training through the
expansion nationwide of an employment information and placement system and
an occupational safety and health program.
4.02      The content of the proposed project is summarized below and detailed
in Annexes 7, 12, 14, 16, 17 and 18.
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping of vocational training
centers, as follows:
Numbers of Centers
Complete      Equipping          Trainee          Annual
Training Centers       Facilities       Only              Places          Output
-  Industrial (SENAI)    12               1               4,746 /1        25,700
-  Commercial (SENAC)       3            -                  495            5,000
-  Hotel School (SENAC)   3              -                  795            9,500
-  Occupational Safety
and Health
(FUNDACENTRO)           1 /2          8               2,095           24,300
Totals               19             9               8,131            64,_500
/1   Including 144 existing places in the one SENAI industrial training center
to be equipped only.
/2   Partially replacement of temporary facilities rented by FUNDACENTRO in
Sao Paulo.
(b) provision of 180 mobile units (vehicles and equipment) for
the expansion of SENAR rural training programs, to provide
annual training opportunities to about 250,000 persons:



- 14 -
(c)  staff training for about 600 instructors of SENAI industrial,
SENAC commercial and SENAC hotel school training centers,
and for about 2,525 administrators and other staff of the SINE
employment information and placement system;
(d)  studies on the labor market and follow-up of students by the
Ministry of Labor and preparation of programmed instructional
materials for SENAC hotel, catering and related services courses;
(e)  technical assistance to SENAI, FUNDACENTRO, SENAR, SINE and the
Ministry of Labor, including 36-2/3 man-years of specialists'
services, 27-1/4 man-years of fellowships, and a seminar on
employment information and placement services; and
(f)  selected project administration costs including 100 percent of
the salaries of six Project Unit staff during project imple-
mentation and consulting services to the Project Unit.
Industrial Training (SENAI)
4.03      At full operation in 1981, the project centers would increase the
direct annual output of trainees from the national SENAI system by some nine
percent to about 325,000. In the particular states where the project centers
would be located (Bahia, Pernambuco, Distrito Federal, Goias, Espi?rito
Santo, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul), they
would increase annual output from the SENAI system by about 13 percent to
a total of 200,000 trainees, of which 80,000 would be new entrants to the
labor force (which represent some 22% of the total estimated annual require-
ments for new and replacement workers in the secondary sector in those states
through 1985-Annex 4). Trainees would include persons at the supervisory,
middle technician, skilled and semi-skilled worker levels in the mechanical,
electrical, refrigeration, instrumentation, garment and printing trades. One
of the project centers (specializing in instrumentation for the petrochemical
industry) would also produce higher level technicians. This would be SENAI's
first experience in post-secondary training. The Government gave assurances
that by June 30, 1979 appropriate action would have been taken to obtain
official recognition of the SENAI higher technician degree.
4.04      The project institutions would operate on a multiple shift basis
with apprentice, secondary school and adult job entry courses organized
during the day (about 40 percent of all trainees) and upgrading courses for
already employed workers (60 percent) arranged in the evenings. Courses would
vary in duration from 40 hours for upgrading to 1,800 hours for apprentice
training. The Government gave assurances that the operational year for the
training centers would be established at a minimum of 45 weeks.
4.05      At present the content and duration of courses in the same fields
vary considerably among SENAI centers. As a first step towards establish-
ing recognized national skill levels, the Government gave assurances that
during project implementation action would be taken to establish (a) minimum
standards regarding the content and duration (according to the method of
instruction) of SENAI's courses for the most common occupations, and (b) an



- 15 -
adequate system for the exchange of information and experience among all the
regional departments of SENAI. The use of self-contained training modules
would permit trainees to enter the system at the stage appropriate to their
qualifications and return for further training at any SENAI center at later
stages in their careers.
4.06      To staff the SENAI project institutions, an estimated 400 new
instructors and supervisors would be required. They would be selected from
among experienced workers and supervisors in their respective fields and given
pedagogic training at the National Center for Vocational Training (CENAFOR)
in Sao Paulo, one of CENAFOR's seven regional centers, or some other appro-
priate instructor training institution. The drawing up of acceptable contracts
between the Ministry of Labor, SENAI and the collaborating instructor training
institution(s) specifying the curriculum, duration and financial arrangements
would be a condition of loan disbursement for the staff training courses.
4.07      The project would also finance technical assistance to carry out an
evaluation study by SENAI to assess the results of an experiment which it has
been conducting since 1968 in ten of its training centers in Rio de Janeiro,
involving the use of individualized instruction techniques.  The objective of
the study would be to determine the appropriateness of extending the use of
such techniques nationwide. Draft terms of reference for the study have been
reviewed by the Bank, and the Government gave assurances that the study itself
would commence no later than January 1, 1978.
Commercial Training (SENAC)
4.08      At full operation in 1981, the commercial training centers to be
financed under the project would provide for only a relatively minor increase
of some 1.0 percent in the direct output of the national SENAC system, to about
520,000 persons annually. However, they would make a substantial impact on
training opportunities in the state of Mato Grosso and the federal territories
of Rond8nia and Amapa, as they would be SENAC's first training centers in those
areas. These are newly opening and rapidly developing areas which have par-
ticularly acute shortages of skilled manpower. The combined output from the
project training centers of 5,000 trainees in secretarial, accounting and sales
occupations would satisfy about 38 percent of the estimated annual requirements
for new and replacement workers in the tertiary sector (excluding tourism)
in that state and those territories through 1985 (Annex 6).
4.09      The training centers would operate on a multiple shift basis with
job entry courses (60 percent of all trainees) during the day and upgrading
(40 percent) arranged in the evenings. Courses would vary in length from
40-150 hours for upgrading and 80-450 hours for job entry. Approximately 40
instructors and supervisors would be required to staff the project institu-
tions, and they would be recruited and given pedagogical training under arrange-
ments similar to those for SENAI industrial training staff (para. 4.06 above).
The Government gave assurances that the operational year for the training
centers would be established at a minimum of 45 weeks.



- 16 -
Hotel Training (SENAC)
4.10      At full operation in 1981, the three project financed hotel schools
in Brasilia, Florian6polis and Rio de Janeiro would double the number of SENAC
hotel schools in the country to six and would increase the direct annual
output of SFNAC trainees in hotel, catering and other activities by about
7.2 percent to a total of some 200,000 persons nationwide (including 6,400 for
the hotel industry, 11,500 for catering and 139,000 for other activities-
Annex 5). In the hotel and catering training areas, output from project hotel
schools would increase the direct annual output of SENAC trainees by 100
percent and 26 percent, respectively to a total of some 17,900 persons nation-
wide. Project hotel schools output would meet about 25 and 18 percent of the
training needs in the hotel and catering industries, respectively.
4.11      Facilities would consist of 100-bedroom first class hotels attached
to training centers. This is the minimum possible size of hotel, the earnings
of which would finance all training costs when the hotel is at 70 percent occu-
pancy. The Government gave assurances that the operational year for the hotel
schools would be established at a minimum of 45 weeks. Key positions in the
hotels would be held by instructor-supervisors (approximately 160), who would
be recruited and given pedagogical training under arrangements similar to those
for SENAI industrial training staff (para. 4.06 above). The operating staff
of the hotels would be trainees who would alternate between the training
center, where they would receive theoretical instruction and off-the-job
practice, and the hotel itself where they would receive on-the-job training
and experience. The duration of the courses would vary from 45-2,200 hours
for job entry (76 percent of all trainees) and 60-300 hours for upgrading
courses (24 percent). To permit maximum flexibility, the training programs
would be arranged on an individual basis, with each trainee moving through the
hotel on his own itinerary. To the extent possible, trainees would be grouped
for instruction in the attached training centers, but even there flexibility
would be encouraged through the use of programmed instructional materials for
the theoretical subjects. The preparation of such instructional materials
would be financed under the project.
Occupational Safety and Health Training (FUNDACENTRO)
4.12      At full operation in 1981, the output from the FUNDACENTRO network
of eight regional training centers and one national headquarters/training
center in Sao Paulo would be about 24,300 graduates per year (Annex 10).
Approximately 20 percent of these would be high-level technical personnel
(senior medical officers, safety engineers and psychologists) who, after
training at the national headquarters, would either staff the regional train-
ing centers, work as safety personnel in large enterprises, or join universi-
ties and other educational institutions where they would organize and deliver
occupational safety and health courses. The remaining 80 percent, mostly
supervisory staff (medical officers, safety engineers, trade union officials,
managers and foremen), would be trained in FUNDACENTRO's eight regional
centers or in enterprises and cooperating educational institutions, after
which they wculd be responsible for in-plant safety and health training of
workers in smaller enterprises. It is expected that an additional 500,000



- 17 -
workers would receive training annually through in-plant schemes, representing
one-twelfth of the insured labor force. The anticipated effect of this
training would be to reduce accident rates from 15 to 8 percent of the insured
labor force during 1976-81, and to stabilize the rate at 6 percent by 1986.
(Annex 11).
4.13      Courses would vary in duration from 10-60 hours, and they would
cover topics such as epidemiology, work physiology and psychology, ergonomics,
work hygiene and work safety. It is expected that FUNDACENTRO would seek
and receive from universities and other institutions assistance in the prepa-
ration of curricula, teaching materials and audiovisual aids. In addition,
technical assistance specialists would assist in establishing the laboratories
and training counterpart staff for the FUNDACENTRO national headquarters in
Sao Paulo, and they would subsequently assist in the extension of training
activities to the regional FUNDACENTRO centers and in the organization of
advisory and technical services programs for enterprises (para. 4.14 below).
4.14      Besides direct training, FUNDACENTRO would manage a national pro-
motional campaign to encourage awareness and acceptance of occupational
safety and health practices in Brazil, maintain documentation and library
services on related subjects; establish an advisory service to assist larger
enterprises in organizing their own occupational safety and health programs;
and provide technical services to enterprises in the form of basic quali-
tative and quantitative analysis related to industrial hygiene and of basic
measurements related to occupational safety. The Government gave assurances
that the operational year for all FUNDACENTRO facilities would be established
at a minimum of 45 weeks.
Rural Training (SENAR)
4.15      As a result of the project, SENAR would increase its rural training
programs by more than two and one-half times to reach some 309,000 persons 1/
at full operation in 1981, thereby satisfying about 40 percent of estimated
rural training needs in selected regions where priority agricultural and rural
development projects are either underway or planned (Annex 8). The mode of
training would be by mobile unit, with each unit consisting of a vehicle and
sets of training equipment (sub-divided into kits) for each separate training
activity, such as soil conservation, plant protection, agricultural machinery
operation and repair. Interchangeability of kits among mobile units would be
possible and would permit maximum flexibility in the range of courses which
could be offered.
4.16      Courses would vary in duration from 150 to 300 hours and would be
offered to small-scale farmers, agricultural laborers and rural artisans.
Prior to commencement of courses, participants would be classified according
to age, schooling and economic activity to ensure some degree of homogeneity
1/   Compared with the 1975 output of SENAR's predecessor agency PIPMO -- the
National Project for Rural Manpower Training.



- 18 -
within groups; there would be no specific entry requirements, except that the
minimum age for participants would be 14 years. Only a certificate of attend-
ance would be given at the end of each course.
4.17      In executing the various training programs, SENAR would adopt the
same approach as has been applied by its predecessor agency PIPMO, namely to
utilize specialized agencies (Ministry of Agriculture, extension services,
banks extending agricultural credit, local machinery or farm inputs firms)
in defining detailed training needs within specific geographic areas and
subsequently to utilize their instructors or key personnel to offer the
training courses. The most important collaborative effort would be between
SENAR and the agricultural extension service (EMBRATER at federal and EMATER
at state level). The respective responsibilities of SENAR and the collabor-
ating agencies would be clarified in agreements acceptable to the Bank (similar
to a previous agreement between PIPMO and EMBRATER) and the signing of such
agreements would be a condition of disbursement of loan funds for the SENAR
component of the project. In general, EMBRATER and other collaborating
agencies would provide instructors for agricultural training courses and SENAR
would use its own instructors for rural artisan training. The Government gave
assurances that acceptable detailed training programs showing the annual
itineraries of the mobile units would be furnished to the Bank by June 30 of
each year, beginning with the first such itinerary to be received by June 30,
1978.
4.18      At full operation, SENAR's permanent staff would consist of about
1,305 persons. Most positions would be filled by former staff of PIPMO. The
Governmental Administrative Department for Civil Servants (DASP) has approved
the staffing and salary scale of SENAR and most of the key positions have
already been filled. The Government gave assurances that by April 1, 1978 all
the key administrative and support staff of SENAR would have been appointed.
4.19      Of SENAR's total permanent staff, some 265 would be directly involved
in training (80 for course planning, coordination and supervision at agency
level and 185 field instructors). All training staff would participate in a
general orientation course, and specialized training would also be offered to
those responsible for organizing and implementing instructor training courses.
Assistance will be provided by the ILO under the terms of an ongoing project
with the Ministry of Labor, and from the specialized personnel of other
institutions as appropriate.
Employment Services (SINE)
4.20      To staff the decentralized employment offices of SINE, by 1978 some
3,250 persons would be required (8 percent at state and 92 percent at local
level). Of these, about 2,525 persons would require specific, although short,
training courses, both at the time of job entry and thereafter every two years
for upgrading (Annex 12). Course content would be established by the Secretariat
of Employment and Wages and specialists would be recruited from each state to
carry out the program. To assist SINE during the starting up period (6 to 12
months), the Secretariat of Employment and Wages would contract part-time local



- 19 -
consultants who have relevant experience, for a total of 13 man-years equiv-
alent. National fellowships would be awarded to about 100 persons for one
month each to study specific topics in those states where SINE is already well
established. Foreign fellowships would be awarded to 10 persons to study
vocational guidance and the functioning of foreign employment services, and
international specialists would be recruited in the field of labor market
analysis and employment statistics. Finally, SINE would organize a seminar to
be held in early 1978 with participation of foreign specialists on the subject
of organizing and implementing employment information and placement programs.
The Bank would be given an opportunity to comment on the detailed agenda and
financial plan for the seminar prior to disbursement of loan funds for this
purpose.
Manpower Studies (Ministry of Labor)
4.21.     Manpower studies would be carried out by the Secretariat of Manpower,
on behalf of the Federal Council of Manpower, to establish an information base
relating to the existing stock of skilled manpower, install a system for
the continuous assessment of manpower needs and devise means to channel the
information to the training agencies for use in their planning process.
Furthermore, the Ministry of Labor would recommend and coordinate an evalua-
tion program which would take the form of follow-up studies of trainees
during their transition to work. The Bank would review draft terms of refer-
ence for the studies, and the Government gave assurances that the studies
themselves would commence no later than January 1, 1978. The studies would be
designed in close collaboration with the local agencies specialized in human
resources planning and implemented by the training agencies (SENAI, SENAC and
SENAR).
Technical Assistance
4.22      The project would include the following technical assistance (Annex
14):  (a) About 9 man-years of international specialists' services, 1 man-year
of international fellowships and 4 man-years of fellowhips to other Latin
American countries to assist SENAR in establishing its rural mobile training
programs (complementing two man-years of assistance presently being provided
by ILO under UNDP financing); (b) about 5.5 man-years of international special-
ists' services and 10.5 man-years of international fellowships to assist
FUNDACENTRO expand the occupational safety and health training programs;
(c) about 4 man-years of international specialists' services and 7 man-years
of fellowships to assist SINE in expanding its employment information and
placement services, and 6.8 man-years of international fellowships and US$60,000
for a seminar on employment services; (d) about 14 man-years of national
specialists' services and 2.5 man-years of international fellowships to assist
the Secretariat of Manpower in coordinating vocational training at the national
level; (e) about 4.0 man-years of local specialists for the evaluation of SENAI's
individualized instructional methodology in industrial training; and (f) about
2.5 man-years of international fellowships for training the directors of SENAC
project hotel schools and commercial training centers. The cost of technical
assistance is estimated as follows: US$55,000/ man-year for international
specialists' services; US$35,000/man-year for national specialists' services,
and US$16,320/man-year for international (including other Latin American)



- 20 -
fellowships. The UNDP would finance US$1.5 million equivalent of these tech-
nical assistance costs under a project, for part of which the ILO would be the
executing agency, and the Bank would finance the balance of about US$1.3
million of the costs.
Evaluation
4.23      The Government gave assurances that:  (a) by January 1, 1978 it would
cause the Project Unit, in cooperation with the Secretariats of Manpower,
Employment and Wages, and Labor Relations and the training agencies, to submit
to the Bank an acceptable plan for monitoring and evaluating the qualitative
and quantitative impact of each of the project components in accordance with
their stated objectives, and (b) within three months of the Closing Date of
the loan, it would cause the Ministry of Labor to prepare and send to the Bank
a report providing a preliminary assessment of the project, its results and
experience gained during implementation.
Cost of the Project
4.24      The total project cost, net of identifiable taxes, is estimated at
US$92.51 million equivalent, as summarized below and detailed in Annexes 15-20.



- 21 -
US$(million)l'
Local        Foreign         Total      x of Total
(a) Industrial Training (SENAI)               19.63          3.16          22.79         24.6
- 13 Industrial Training Centers          16.58          3.16           19.74        21.3
- Staff Training                           1.03           -              1.03         1.1
- Technical Assistance                     0.14           -              0.14         0.2
- Project Administration                   1.88           -              1.88         2.0
(b) Hotel and Commercial
Training(SENAC)                           17.46          1.60           19.06        20.6
-  3 Hotel Schools                        13.81          1.37           15.18        16.4
-  3 Commercial Training Centers           1.63          0.20            1.83         2.0
-  Technical Assistance                    0.01          0.03           0.04           -
-  Staff Training                          0.22           -             0.22          0.2
-  Teaching Materials                      0.18           -             0.18          0.2
-  Project Administration                  1.61           -              1.61         1.7
(c) Rural Training (SENAR)                     8.99          5.10           14.09        15.2
-  180 Mobile Units                        8.79          4.74           13.53        14.6
-  Technical Assistance                    0.20          0.36            0.56         0.6
(d) Occupational Safety and Health
Training (FUNDACENTRO)                     4.13          1.18            5.31         5.7
- 9 Occupational Safety
Training Centers                        3.53          0.87           4.40         4.7
-  Technical Assistance                    0.17          0.31            0.48         0.5
-  Project Administration                  0.43           -             0.43          0.5
(e) Employment Information and
Placement Services (SINE)                  1.22          0.38            1.60         1.7
-  Staff Training                          1.08          0.12            1.20         1.3
-  Technical Assistance                    0.14          0.26            0.40         0.4
(f) Ministry of Labor                          3.24          0.33            3.57         3.9_
-  Manpower Studies                        1.00           -              1.00         1.1
-  Technical Assistance                    0.18          0.33            0.51         0.6
-  Project Administration                  2.06           -              2.06         2.2
Base Cost Estimates (a-f)                 54.67         11.75           66.42        71.8
Contingencies                             21.40          4.69           26.09        28.2
-  Physical (11.9%)                        6.49          1.42            7.91         8.6
-  Price  (24.4%)                         14.91          3.27           18.18        19.6
Total Project Costs                       76.07         16.44           92.51       100.0
1/ Base costs estimated in expected prices as of April 1977 (US$1.00 = Cr$13.50).
Differences due to rounding.



- 22 -
4.25      Construction costs have been estimated at US$280/M2 for SENAI,
industrial training centers, and SENAC commercial training centers,
US$440 for SENAC hotel schools, and US$407 for the FUNDACENTRO headquarters/
training center. Cost estimates are based on data obtained from private
enterprises in seven of the 15 cities where project institutions would be
located, and they assume functional and economical accomodation schedules and
specifications which emphasize low maintenance costs and maximum use of local
building materials. All facilities would be used intensively on a multiple
shift basis. Industrial and commercial training centers would be one story
reinforced concrete structures with brick interior walls and roofs of either
flat concrete slabs or steel trusses with asbestos-cement or tiles. Simple
concrete and poly-vinyl flooring would be used, and electrical, mechanical and
sanitary installations would be flexibly designed to permit future adaptation
of facilities to varying training purposes. The FUNDACENTRO headquarters/
training center in Sao Paulo would be of similar standards, except that it
would have three to four stories and include air conditioners because of the
nature of the equipment to be installed. The hotel schools would be of six to
eight stories and would generally conform to the areas and standards appro-
priate to a first class hotel in Brazil; site works would include a swimming
pool and parking facilities. The costs of site acquisition have not been
included in total project costs, because most sites are already owned by the
training agencies and the Ministry of Labor or are expected to be donated at
no cost by the communities. Furniture and equipment costs are based on
preliminary lists prepared by the training agencies and modified to reflect
recent experience with similar Bank-financed vocational training programs in
Latin America.
4.26      Contingency allowances have been added to base cost estimates (ex-
pressed in US dollars) for: (a) unforseen factors equal to 10 percent of base
cost estimates for construction, furniture, technical assistance, staff
training, labor market and evaluation studies, teaching materials production
and professional services, and 15 percent of base cost estimates for site
works, equipment and project administration; and (b) expected price increases
estimated for construction at 13.5 percent in 1977, 13 percent in 1978, 12.5
percent in 1979 and 12 percent annually in 1980-81, and for all other cate-
gories at 8.5 percent in 1977, 8 percent in 1978, 7.5 percent in 1979, and 7
percent annually in 1980-81 (Annex 20).
4.27      The foreign exchange component of the project would be about US$16.44
million equivalent, representing 17.8 percent of total project costs. This has
been calculated as follows: (a) site development, 6 percent; (b) construction,
10 percent; (c) equipment, 35 percent; (d) technical assistance, 65 percent,
and (e) staff training, 5 percent.
Project Recurrent Costs
4.28      The annual recurrent costs of the project institutions and mobile
units at full implementation in 1981 would be about US$23.25 million (1977
prices), equivalent to about 10 percent of the projected total recurrent
expenditures of the agencies in that year, as follows (Annexes 21-24):



- 23 -
(US$ million)
Recurrent Costs in 1981       Total Recurrent
Project       Expenditures in       Percentage
Agency              Total        Institutions          1977          (2)/(1)   (2)/(3)
(1)             (2)               (3)
SENAI               116.0            13.0               76.1           11.2       17.0
SENAC                39.0             2.3               15.1            5.9       15.2
SENAR                21.7              7.0               8.0           32.2       87.5
FUNDACENTRO           3.1              0.42              1.0           13.5       42.0
Ministry of Labor
(including SINE)  52.3              0.53             31.0             1.0       1.7
Totals         232.1            23.25            131.2            10.0      17.8
The recurrent costs of the SENAI industrial and SENAC commercial training centers
are well within the projected income of both agencies from their respective
payroll taxes.  The SENAC hotel schools would be self-financed out of the earn-
ings of the hotels. FUNDACENTRO's recurrent costs would be financed in the
main by its payroll tax (90 percent), supplemented by a small Government
contribution (10 percent) already earmarked for that purpose. Through 1978,
the recurrent costs of SENAR (including those of the project training programs)
will be financed by a special development fund earmarked for that purpose under
a presidential decree. The Government gave assurances that it would take the
necessary steps to meet all of the operating costs of SENAR and SINE and to
cause SENAI, SENAC and FUNDACENTRO to make adequate budgetary allocations to
meet the respective recurrent costs generated under the project.
V.   IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project Administration
5.01      Project administration would be a cooperative venture on the part of
the Ministry of Labor and the training agencies (Annex 25). A special Project
Unit would be established within the Ministry of Labor, for the purposes of
coordinating implementation and maintaining financial control of the project
through (a) the Secretary of Manpower for the SENAI, SENAC and SENAR compo-
nents; (b) the Secretary of Employment and Wages for the SINE component; and
(c) the Secretary of Labor Relations for the FUNDACENTRO component. The
Project Unit would report to the Secretary General (Vice-Ministry). The
respective functions and responsibilities of the Project Unit, Secretaries and
agencies, implementation schedules, procedures for the transfer of Bank loan
funds and local counterpart financing, and the procurement arrangements to be
used under the project would all be detailed in: (a) subsidiary agreements
between the Ministry of Labor and SENAI, SENAC and FUNDACENTRO, and (b) intra-
ministerial operating programs drawn up by the Ministry of Labor for the SINE
and SENAR components. The Bank would review drafts of the subsidiary agree-
ments and the operating programs, and their signing, after approval by the
Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.



- 24 -
5.02      The Project Unit would comprise a director, architect, civil engineer,
vocational training specialist, programmer and accountant, all appointed on a
full-time basis in consultation with the Bank. The loan would reimburse 20
percent of the total costs of project administration, including: (a) 100
percent of the salaries of the aforementioned Project Unit staff over the
implementation period of the project, estimated at US$981,000; and (b) the
equivalent of 2-1/2 man-years of consultant services, estimated at US$210,000,
to permit the Project Unit to retain such short-term specialists as it may
require to assist it in procurement matters (e.g. lawyers, equipment special-
ists).
Professional and Technical Services
5.03      All architectural design work and related engineering and construction
supervision would be assigned to consultant firms employed by the training
agencies on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, except in the case of:
(a) SENAI's regional office in Sao Paulo, which has permanent staff for such
activities; and (b) SENAC's hotel schools and commercial training centers, for
which preliminary design work only would be performed by architects at SENAC
national headquarters, who have already handled similar operations. Equipment
and furniture lists and specifications would be drafted by the training
agencies. All architectural designs and equipment and furniture lists would
have to be approved by the Ministry of Labor before they are submitted for
approval to the Bank. The cost of professional services (architectural
designs and related engineering and construction supervision) for FUNDACENTRO's
national headquarters building in Sao Paulo would be reimbursed under the loan.
Implementation Schedule
5.04      To assist in the effective and timely execution of the project, an
implementation schedule has been prepared (Annex 26). This schedule was dis-
cussed during appraisal and mutually agreed upon with the Ministry of Labor as
a project implementation and monitoring tool which would be updated regularly
by the Project Unit in consultation with the Secretariats of Mlanpower, Employ-
ment and Wages, and Labor Relations, and the training agencies.
Sites
5.05      SENAI has already selected acceptable sites for the construction of
the industrial training centers, and no difficulties are foreseen in their
timely acquisition. SENAC already owns two of the three sites for construc-
tion of hotel schools and all three sites for the commercial training centers.
All are acceptable, and no difficulties are foreseen in the timely selection
and acquisition of the site for the third hotel school. FUNDACENTRO is seek-
ing a suitable site for the construction of its national headquarters/training
center in Sao Paulo; submission to the Bank of evidence that the Government
has rented or acquired acceptable premises for the eight regional centers to
be equipped under the project would be a condition of loan disbursement for
the purchase of such equipment.



- 25 -
Maintenance
5.06      SENAI, SENAC and FUNDACENTRO would each be responsible for the
regular inspection and repair of their own facilites. For proper and effect-
ive maintenance and operation of the mobile units, SENAR would prepare a
maintenance handbook and establish appropriate procedures. The Government
gave assurances at negotiations that it would make or cause to be made ade-
quate budgetary allocations for the maintenance and repair of all buildings,
furniture and equipment provided under the project.
Procurement
5.07      All civil works contracts expected to exceed US$3.0 million and
equipment contracts (except for vehicles) would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Civil works contracts for lesser amounts and all contracts for furniture and
vehicles would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. However, such
furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped into packages of at least
US$50,000 may be purchased in accordance with regular Government procurement
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. The total value of items pur-
chased in this manner would not exceed US$3,800,000 (equivalent to about 15
percent of the total estimated value of furniture and equipment). Domestic
manufacturers of furniture and equipment (defined under Brazilian law as those
whose bids contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50
percent of the total bid) would be allowed a preferential margin in bid
evaluation of 15 percent of the c.i.f. price or the prevailing tariff, which-
ever is lower.
Disbursements
5.08      The proposed loan of US$32.0 million, equivalent to 35 percent of
the estimated total project cost of US$92.51 million, would finance 94% of
the foreign exchange component (US$15.47 million) and 22 percent (US$16.53
million) of local currency costs. The UNDP would finance US$1.5 million of
technical assistance costs, and the Federal Government and the training
agencies would finance the balance of project costs. The loan would be
disbursed over a 5-1/2 year period (Annex 27), with the project completed by
June 30, 1982. Disbursements would finance an estimated: (a) 100% of foreign
expenditures or 26% of local expenditures for equipment; (b) 35% of total
expenditures for site development, selected professional services, construc-
tion, furniture, staff training, studies and teaching materials production;
and (c) 100% of selected technical assistance and project administration
expenditures.
V.   BENEFITS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Benefits
6.01      The project would develop the capacity of the Ministry of Labor
to perform its functions within the newly established National Vocational



- 26 -
Training System (para. 3.05 (c)). These are basically to coordinate and
rationalize the expansion of the major public and private vocational training
agencies in Brazil (SENAI, SENAC, PIPMO/SENAR), with a view towards alleviat-
ing shortages of middle-level, skilled and semi-skilled workers in the primary,
secondary and tertiary sectors of the economy in accordance with established
development priorities. The channeling of loan funds through the Ministry of
Labor to the training agencies, the establishment of a Project Unit in the
Ministry of Labor to assist it in implementing the project, and the provision
of substantial specialists' services and fellowships to the Ministry of Labor
in the planning and management of vocational training, would all contribute
to this end.
6.02      Besides this institution building impact, the project would also
provide for a substantial increase in vocational training opportunities in
selected sub-sectors and geographic areas through the physical facilities to
be financed. Training in the rural sector would be increased some two and
one-half times to meet an estimated 40 percent of national requirements for
trained rural manpower, with emphasis on those regions where there are on-
going or planned agricultural and rural development projects. There would be
a further 13 percent increase in the output of trained industrial manpower in
the nine project states, where industry is concentrated and such demand is
highest. For the first time, commercial training would be introduced in one
state and two federal territories in the North and Center West regions of the
country to meet a growing demand for trained personnel. Lastly, with regard
to the tourism industry, expansion of hotel schools based on the pedagogic
enterprise concept would double the output of trained manpower for the hotel
industry. To complement these vocational training programs, the project
would also provide for the expansion of a national employment information
and placement system (SINE) under the direction of the Ministry of Labor.
6.03      Finally, the project would provide for the expansion nationwide
of an occupational safety and health training program, under the direction
of the Ministry of Labor (FUNDACENTRO). Besides the considerable but unquanti-
fiable social and personal welfare benefits of such an endeavor, this project
component would have a purely economic rate of return on investment of about
26 percent (Annex 11). The benefit stream includes a conservative estimate
of the reduction in the loss of total hours worked and of medical costs of
accidents. The cost stream includes the agency and Ministry of Labor's
capital and recurrent costs for the program and the recurrent costs incurred
by the firms required to establish safety programs within a 15-year period.
Risks and Uncertainties
6.04      There would be no major risks of a technical nature associated with
the project. The main participating agencies (SENAI, SENAC, PIPMO/SENAR) have
considerable experience in their respective fields of training. The compo-
nents for SINE and FUNDACENTRO, which have much less experience, would be of
a reasonable scale that is manageable in the Brazilian context. More subject
to uncertainty would be the institutional objective of the project -- that is,
the extent to which the Ministry of Labor would be able to develop its full



- 27 -
potential for coordinating the National Vocational Training System and partic-
ularly to guide the activities of the well established agencies such as SENAI
and SENAC. The actions taken by the Government during the past three years as
described in para. 3.05 above, and the project implementation and financing
arrangements described in para. 6.01 above have been designed to foster these
ends.
VII.       AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      The Government has given assurances that:
(a)  by June 30, 1979, all appropriate action would have been taken
to obtain official recognition of the new SENAI higher tech-
nician degree in instrumentation (para. 4.03);
(b)  the operational year for all project training institutions
would be established at a minimum of 45 weeks (paras. 4.04,
4.09, 4.11, 4.14);
(c)  during project implementation, action would be taken to
establish: (i) minimum standards regarding the content
and duration (according to the method of instruction) of
SENAI's courses for the most common occupations, and
(ii) an adequate system for the exchange of information
and experience among all the regional departments of
SENAI (para. 4.05);
(d)  by January 1, 1978, the evaluation study by SENAI of its
individualized instruction techniques would have commenced
(para. 4.07);
(e)  by June 30, 1978, SENAR would furnish to the Bank an acceptable
detailed training program showing the annual itinerary of the
mobile units and similar programs would be submitted by June 30 of
each year thereafter during the period of project implementation
(para. 4.17);
(f)  by April 1, 1978, the key administrative and support staff of
SENAR would have been appointed (para. 4.18);
(g)  the Project Unit, in cooperation with the training agencies and
other local agencies specialized in human resources planning, would
furnish to the Bank acceptable terms of reference for the manpower
and follow-up studies and by January 1, 1978, such studies would
have commenced (para. 4.21);



- 28 -
(h) by January 1, 1978, the Project Unit, in cooperation with
the Ministry of Labor and the training agencies, would submit
to the Bank an acceptable plan for monitoring and evaluating
the qualitative and quantitative impact of each component of the
project (para. 4.23);
(i) within three months of the Closing Date of the loan, the Ministry
of Labor would prepare and send to the Bank a report providing a
preliminary assessment of the project (para. 4.23);
(j) the necessary steps would be taken to meet all of the operating
costs of the project (para. 4.28);
(k) a director, architect, civil engineer, vocational training
specialist, programmer and accountant would be appointed to the
Project Unit on a full-time basis in consultation with the Bank
(para. 5.02); and
(1) adequate budgetary allocations would be made for the maintenance
and repair of all buildings, furniture and equipment provided
under the project (para. 5.06).
7.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
loan:
(a) the signing of acceptable subsidiary agreements between the
Ministry of Labor and SENAI, SENAC and FUNDACENTRO, and the
approval of the Ministry of Labor of acceptable operating
programs for the SINE and SENAR components of the project (para.
5.01); and
(b) the establishment within the Ministry of Labor of a Project
Unit (para. 5.01).
7.03      The following would be conditions of disbursement under the proposed
loan for the respective portions of the project:
(a) for the staff training courses for instructors and supervisors
of SENAI and SENAC, the drawing up of acceptable contracts
between the Ministry of Labor, SENAI/SENAC and the collaborat-
ing instructor training institution(s) (paras. 4.06, 4.09, and
4.11);
(b) for the SENAR component, the signing of acceptable agreements
between SENAR and collaborating agricultural agencies regarding
the operation of the rural mobile training units (para. 4.17);
(c) for the purchase of equipment for FUNDACENTRO's eight regional
centers, submission to the Bank of evidence of the acquisition
or renting of suitable premises by the Government (para. 5.05);
and



- 29 -
(d) for the employment services seminar, the opportunity for the
Bank to comment on the detailed agenda and financial plan
(para. 4.20).
7.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project consti-
tutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$32.0 million to the Federative
Republic of Brazil for a term of 17 years including a 3-1/2 year period of
grace.
May 26, 1977






ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
Vocational Training Project
Population (1970-1985)
% of Annual Change
1970      1975      1980     1985   75/70   80/75   85/80   85/70
(a)Total PopulAtlin ('000)   9.60   107.000  222.8h0  3Il.  2                 8     2.8       2.8
O0- 4             L5*100    17,200   19,940   21,700  2.6       2.       2.2
5 - 14            214,400    27,700   31,660   35s950  2.6      2.7      2.6      2.6
15 - 24            18,000    21,200   23,900   27,110  3.3       2.4      2.5      2.7
25 and over          35o260    40,90o   47,,84O   566,,24o  3.O    3.1      3.2      3.1
(b)Geographic distribu-
tion ()                   100       100      100       100
North             3.85       3.93     4.00      4.08    0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5
Northeast        30.30      29.65    29.15    28.52    0.5       0.4     0.5      0.5
Center West       5.45       6.16     6.93      7.79    2.5      2.5     2.3      2.4
Southeast        42.70      42.06    41.44    40.83    0.4       0.4     0.5     0.4
South            17.70      18.20    18.48    18.78    0.6       0.4     0.4      0.4
Rural            43.0       40.0     36.0      32.0    -1.4    -2.0    -2.1    -1.8
Labor Force ('000)       29.400   34.100   39.40o  46.00         3.0    -3.0      3.1     3.0
Source:  (a) World Bank Atas (1976) and UN Dmuographio Indicatorj (1975).
(b) Inastituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica (TIBE) - 1976.
%ay 16, 1977



BRAZIL
Vocational Training Pro.iect
GDP. Enrloymrnt and Productivity (1970-1985)
(At 1973 Prices US$14)     8            (% of Total GDP)              (I of  anmal chan8)
IZO      1M        l9dO      PIJ.E    1970   1M    197 0   195    17            196017    19,5190 -195770
1. Total GDP        45, 298   71.322   97.107   146.612      100    100    100    100                    6.4       8.6        8.1
(at factor cost)
Agriculture       7,895   10,698   13,700    17,600    17.4   15.0   14.1   12.0            6.2        5.1      5.1        5-5
Industry        14,153   23,424   31,900    50,000    31.3   32.8   32.9   34.1           10.6        6.4       9.4        8.8
Services        23,250   37,200   51,500    79s000    5L 3   52.2   53.0   53.9             9.9       6.7       8.9        8.5
(Value added per worker at 1973 US$)        (% of Avera pe)                    (% of annual chanpe)
1970      1975      1980    -i         1970   1M    l9d   -9             =0   198d/70    19b5/d0   1977.7
2. Productivity   1.665    2.207    2                .r o    100    100    100    100          5 8       4.0       5.0        La
Agriculture         663      830    1,000      1,220       40      37     37     35         4.6        3.8      4.0        4.2
Industry         2,883    3,700    4,670       6,000      173    168    173    174          5.1        4.8      5o0        4.9
Services          2,235    2,860    3,300      3,900      134    129    122    113          5.0        2.9      3.4        3.8
(t0)                   (% of Total Iaior Force)              (% of annual change)
1970      1975      1980      1985    1970   1=    1980   1928        192.    1960t?7   195180   19 S/7
3. Labor Force     29> 0        1o                           100    100    100    100          3.0          0      3.1        3.0
Emaloyrren       27.200   J2,4XS   36.700    41.800    92.5   95.0   93.1    q,_2           2. .4                3.6       3.2
Agricult u r l I9 I                 130d00               450.4   37.8   35.0   31    5       7         1.3       1.1       1.3
Industry         4,900    6,4oo    6,900       8,600    16.7   18.8   17.5   18.7           5.5        1.6      4.4        3.9
Services        10,400   13,200   16,000    20,700    35.4   38.4   40.6   45.0             4.9        3.8      5.5        4.7
Unemployrent      2 200    1,700- 2,700        2.200      7.5    5.0    6.9    4.          -5.3        9.6    - 2.4         -
4. Educatianal Profile of the Labor Force (% in 1970)
Sectors                 Illiterate      1-3  years     4-5 wars   6-9 years   10-12 YearS   University    Total
Prirary                    5.6            33.7           9.6         0.8           0.2          0.1          100                I!
Secondary                  21.8           30.2          32.1         9.6            4.2          2.1          100
Tertiary                   16.9           23.6          30.0        14.2          10.4          4.9          100
BRAZIL                     35.8           28.4          21.3         7.             408          2.3         100
Z c-cc: ho. 1 (all) and Noo. 2 & 3 1970-75: sank Eccncric Memorandum No. 1267 aeR of January 1977.
Nlon. 2 & 3 1975-85!icssion Pro-cctiona.
No. 4:1970 Con--us.
M'ay 16, 1977



ANNEX 3
BRAZIL
Vocational Training Project
Employment and Training Needs - Primary Sector
a) Labor Force in Primary Sector (1981)
Primary Sector Labor Force ('000)                 Regional Primary
of which                               Sector Labor Force
Self                  Family Members   Total National
Regions          Total   Employees   Employed   Employers  Without Wages   Rural Labor Force
Brazil          13,900      3,658        7,573        217        2,452              100.00
North              580         74          394          2          110                4.17
Northeast        5,500      1,314        3,233         53          900               39.57
Center West        820        170          550         16           84                5.90
Southeast        3,800      1,600       1,680         100          420               27.34
South            3,200        500       1,716          46          938               23.02
b)  Primary Labor Force by Subsectors (1981)
Subsector                             Labor Force               %
('OOOs)
Agriculture                                         12,321               88.64
Livestock                                              861                6.20
Forestry                                                46                0.33
Fishery and Hunting                                    163                1.17
Vegetable Extraction                                   381                2.74
Others                                                 128                0.92
Total                                    13,900              100.00
c) Annual Skilled Manpower Required for On-going and Planned
Rural Development Projects (1977-85)1/
Manpower required ('000s)
Skilled and Mid-Level
Region                                       Semi skilled               Technicians
North                                              40                          20
Northeast                                         300                         150
Center West                                        30                          15
Southeast                                          40                          25
South                                              30                          20
Brazil                                            440                         230
- Assumptions are based on experience gained in on-going Polonordeste Rural Development
Project: half the total agricultural labor force will require training, of whom 65%
as semi-skilled workers and 35% as skilled workers, to meet the plan's objectives.
Source: POLONORDESTE, SUDENE and Mission estimates. Also SENAR estimates from the
integrated rural development projects in North, Northeast and Center West Brazil,
and from priority rural development projects in other regions.
May 16, 1977



aDI 4
Suzz  ~        ~         EL
Vocational Tralninzf jresot
Proisort States - Iag1oy.mtb and Traixdnz Needs - Immuidwy BaSool (1975-1985)
SIA cdoxW4 (3V81)
Bmlnint L1oo)           1Anna          AMrstio.la            UMW^gda
Project              195                     Mlnpowr                Of ubJeh             Of ilioh
States-                E        rBeln  ROOIUnT^lPo  Ig.  oz  P8. n"
Bahia                 350         442         20,300         3475      120       4,765    300
Pernambuco            288         335         139200         1,355     300        2,035    300
Distrito Federal       60          94           5s,000       2,325     660       3,490  2,250
GoiAs                 106         137          6,0oo         1,800     180       2,700    210
Espirito Santo         74         103           5,200        1,565     200        2,345    740
Minas Gerais          678         902          439600        2,210   1,266        3,320    334
Rio de Jarwiro        890       1,200          57J300       169055     860      24,080    800
Sto Paulo           2,646       3,600        170,300        43,565   5*930      65,350 30,100
Rio Gruido do SUl  _ 520          700          33.300       7.235  -  660       l08 .0 .9
Total              5.612                    354.200        79.285  10.U76     318,935 15,24
%)                        -     -           (100%)         (22%)   (3%)/        -      -
Y Based an monthly indtstrial cenOua of "Boletim Teonic" of the MnintrY of Labor.
i/ Augu     a copound annual growtJh rate In .nyeyunt by state, in the order of which
States are listed, of 2.5%, 1.5%, 4.5%, 2.5%, 3.5%J 3.0%, 3.0%, 3.0% and 3.0%.
I/ Includes mnpowr requdremint due to attrition (3% pea.).
i Project Institutions' output would represent an Increase of 13% of SSNAI total
output in 1981.
Sources SENAI and  Bia  n projection.*
May 16, 1977



VOCAOatIe   Twaiaiaa Pxeot
TStlwr 8.otr    IlM t ad draiaina e"da (1975-3985)
Seleoted 
Tertiary          19T5       15          _pr                  EH1    Cinial
Sector Activities 1fIJOUL Preinoio 11ZaI T1   Seol       C2EELo    L
Hotel                  70        166        13,100       6s,400  3,198       -         3,198
Catering              15          216       13, 500     11,520  2,283       135        2#418
Administrative and
Offioe Workwr      1,300      2,221       131,100     114#000  1,200    29520        3,720
Persanzel Serwices     29          50        2,900      1lo490    426       225         651
Sales               2.400      3           222.900      23.600   _1          90          2L0
Total              910_       6A62        3,50        17.0l0  72         2.970       10.227
(%)                                       (100%)       (41%)                        (All
I/ Includes mnpeir  requiremens due to attrition (5% p.a. in the hotel indutry
and 3% p.a. In the other subsetwis).
X/ Total SEMAC output wild be 200,000 in 1981, of ihich 14,450, inol2ding ulWrading,
would be from Project Lutitutiuis in these five subseotor training areas.
/ Project Instituticnst output would represent an increase of 31% of total SCKAC
output in the hotel and catering subsectors hi&ch would cover about 25% and
18% of the training needs respectively.
Sourest SENAC and mission projections.
MaY 16, 1977



13RA.ZIL
Vocational Training_Pro,ject
Selected State and Territories - Employment and Training Needs - Commercial and Services Sector '
Employment        Proposed
Annual        ~Annual
Employment (1970-1985)                           Needs for           Output
Population          1970 Census                Tertiary Employment                 Tertiary            SENAt
1950      1970                 Tertiary                Projected 2/                  Sector              C,eter
Census    Census    Total       Sector          1975         1980         1985        (1975-1985(1
Amapa             21,000    86,000   29,104         12,158      21,580       34,800       53,600            3,200             1,650
(Macapa)
Rondonia          27,000    84,000   33,903         13,774      21,040       29,880       40,900            1,986             1,650 /
(Porto Velho)
Mato Grosso        n.a.  1,600,494  494,503        140,250    175,875       211,750      249,450            7,350             1,650
(Campo Grande)
/ Excluding Tourism.
/ Resulting from the spill over effect of Lndustrial developsent, euploymnt In this seotor is expected
to have a 9.5% yearly rate of growth in Macapc   7% in Pbrto Velho and 3.5% in Campo Grande.
3/ Actually 5ENAC proposes to start the operation of this center at 50% of capacity in 1981, 75% in 1982
and l00% in 1983.
May 16, 1977
a%



-    400004 4040N0N444 000    0   4    - o                    4' NO  00' 40
-o  000000004000000  -t 0000004040040       4             j 004 oj
21 40000014tN00400o044  p2-2K-                 2-  2   4400  0000
3                                     N   -    000
000000400,04000  C I 4000000  - 0   .0  00 0   C    00  non' on'
000.04.0.0.00 044000  ,-0j4 44.0.0.0 00 4   -    4 4   4    ool 004 oF N I
1                  -       -    -
4NCNNN  N1 0000004.04 4 4   0    C 0   4    00! 104 40 000
NI   C  00  00   N  4    4'  4N  Ni  000*1
0300  04    N 4   N    NI
    ' I I
.1                                                          0 NO    a
ill 10000100010000000000010                                    N 4N
31 sO.- -
00011110010  00 4000'OCCC
00 NNN    iii    iii    oloooi
00 044000                                    I
Ii                      40
0I                       A---
04.                          O00NN                                       00
3
13  o1 000000000,0,0         44 N 000   I                                      0
I                    ii                 0 o0000000
0                                000   I                                  I   0
001                                                                          .0
g10     o   o    on                                                           0
OINI    C   C    44                   I                               loI    0
4j 00N00000000 C 0*0000000010000000000    N
04001    N        non                 I                               H      
2]                                                                            0
00                                                                             N
8
ow                                                                        014
N                                                      .000,0
O     00                                                                                  00
00    0
3    8
o        0
o         0   0   0     0
00000  0 000000  00    0    000              0 0000
0     0   00  0
0.0  0        00
00            000
0.                                                                            0
0          0                                                                              0
o          0                                                                             .0
-1 
 0  
0            0-E14                    ci
8 -                  00410000 000000 00000000000000000
0   o-'                00             04'
0.0  0       000!
0           0
88
0       0004
0       000  C                 02
o        040  4  000 1000000
0         38
0          0.0
0         0
0         00
4                  000000000,000000000100   000   00000
U                                                                       K
NI
04]  C   444.0044                                                      I
oioooiojoo*ooooooi  ..
041   N 000344000                                                       41   0.0 .0
04001   4 444  NNO.04                                                     0
OOOj 04000404400004 00000*00*00    010    00000 4
041  000  .0
COO      N 0   C                     040 .0
-0000  0 0000000000000   00000000                      0 0   4     00000  4    000 .0
000 0                                      044        4N    4                C      0  0
00  0                                      I--         - -   -               1   00  0
00         040 .0
0      00              0                  22.        U
000   00       0.04         -  00       004         000          04.040
0040   44     000           0    004.     0  -      000         0000.
.000          -odO.  0      0      0    00  0       0..0        00004
0304  03    00000   0     0  '00      0400 0      040044.    00
8  o1o8o88        83.3  0      0000 040  4. .0.0  0  400040      .04000
00  0000000000       0 0,.0 0      00 040  0.0 000 04      00000       00400
o00  0004000.0       0000          -00   0- 0  0   0       0.000       04040
0   004000  00        04040  0 0    4  '000  0 0   0.0     0004        --000
00  0004000          000000  0. 0   -  00000000   0  4.    000  -      004000
00   00   00.0              0 0   000  00  00  00    0000 0 -    000
0000  00  0 00        000000   4   40000400400000  00    000004  0    04004
0 000000  0    0   0 004.00000   0 0.0' 0   000040  o             00
0 00  04 0 0 0 0   0   00440  .0 00004000  00.0000  00 0   0
0 0   00  00  4 0  0   0 04000  0 0400-000404000  04000 C 0 04                0000  N
04     000 0   0 0 0        040  0 0      00  00000  04  00  04 0 04           00044  4
04 0  000.000  4 00 0   04 0000000   0 .000400004.00104000  0 00 0,0           00400  0
3 .0004000004 04 044000 4 0400040040404 044. 4 0404 4000
.0000.0000  0 0 0  C  0000  04 0 0  00   0 0   0           0            00040  -
0  004000  -0 .00 0   0  0000      0            0 0   0    3 00 00          0000  4
04 0 0000004 0 0 0 0 0000   0000404040  4                                     400004
N           4                        4               ,.0Nh141 3






ANNEX 8
BRAZIL
Vocational Training ProJect
Act1ivties of PIPMO & SENUR
Activity                                 PIPMO                 SENAR               Remarks
A. Planning of Manpower Training
i) Analysis of employment situation
(labor market)                                 no                 yes                with respective agencies
ii) Definition of training priorities              no               occasionally only   is done by respective
agencies
iii) Definition of training needs              partially, through       yes
specialized agencies
iv) Identification of:
a) problems concerning manpower
training                                                                        done by SMO
b) priority programs                                               yes               previously done by SMO
B.  Programming of Manpower Training
always in collaboration
i) Definition of modalities of               yes, with respons-       yes               with responsible agency
action (which kind of training,           ible agency
where, by whom, etc.)
ii) Preparation of training
programs                                     yes                   yes
iii) Programming of selected modali-           yes, with respons-       yes
ties of action                            ible agency
C. Implementation of Training Program
i) Preparation of teaching aids              financial assistance   yes                 SENAR will also sub-
to methodology                            contract, when necces-
sary
ii) Training of instructors                   financial assistance   yes
and training
iii) Provision of training                        no                    yes               specialized agencies
equipment                                                                            also
iv) Direct execution of training                 no                  nly partially-      done by specialized
programs                                                                             agencies
D. Monitoring and Evaluation of
Training Programs
i) Monitoring                                   yes                   yes               SENAR will operate in
ii) Supervision                               partially                yes               strict collaboration
with the specialized
iii) Evaluation                                   no                    yes               agencies
SMO = Secretaria de Mgo-de-Obra
l/ SENAR will provide own instructors for the following courses: bricklayer and masonry,carpentry,
installation electricity and agricultural mechanics.



BRAZIL
Vocatioal Trsininz Prosect
Occupational Accidents. 1970 - 197E
Direct
Total            Percentage of                          Average of Days         Cost per
Year      Insured Workers       Accidents         Insured Work Force         Deaths      Lost per Accident       Accident (S$) L
1970          7,284,022         1,220,111                16.75                 2,232             17                   42
1971          7,649,848         1,330,523                17.39                 2,587             16                   61
1972          8,001,877         1,504,723                18.80                 2,805             17                   84
1973         10,956,956         1,632,696                14.91                 3,122             20                  105
1974         11,537,024         1,796,761                15.57                 2,764             20                  118
1975         12,996,796         1,916,187                14.74                 3,942              _                  105
v Total accidents/total estimated cost (see para. 3.14)
Source: Instituto Nacional de Previd8hcia Social.
May 16, 1977



ANNEX 10
BRAZIL
Vocational Training Project
Output of FUNDACENTRO Network
1981
High Level                      Middle Level              Total
Medical      Safety      Industrial   Assistant    Supervisors        trained
States        Officer    Engineer        Nurse         Nurse      of Work Safety   by State
Alagoas            40          58           -              42              98             238
Amazonas           64          88           25             56            153              386
Bahia              82         113           35            110            202              542
Ceara              64          88           25             56            153              386
Dist.
Federal            42          42           22             43             53              202
Espirito
Santo              64          88           30             54            152              388
Goias              64          88           -              54            153             359
Maranhao           42          58           22             42             98             262
Mato Grosso        62          88           22             54            154              380
Minas Gerais      324         456           62            290            808           1,940
Par!               62          88           25             64            154             393
Para'ba            42          58           -              43             98             241
Parana            104         138           38             90            252             622
Pernambuco        164         220           28            146            406             964
Piaui              42          63           22             42             98             267
Rio Grande
do Norte           42          58           -              43             98             241
Rio Grande
do Sul            325         462           76            294            808           1,965
Rio de
Janeiro           322         460           58            280            806           1,926
Santa
Catarina           84         120           46            120            202             572
Sao Paulo       2,066       2,883          184          1,640          5,044          11,817
Sergipe            42          48           -              40             99             229
Total         4,143      5,765           720          3,603        10,089          24,320
May 16, 1977



BR A7ZTI,
VoiLnonTrininPrjc(t
Occupational Safety and Hy isiene Campaigr'
Rate of Retlrn AnalysisJ
-OoRs (Th TJs$ M                                                    Benefits  Tn US      li
T~~~~
Rlecurron 1,
Recurrent               Costs Pri-          (% of ac4S-            11adical and Pxo-
Year      C2apital  IiUJTDACTlTIJT() Overhead  vate Firmis  Total.   (etsS    Va es    luction Los sW       Total
(2%of-?)
1977       0. f22       8           .17        2.94       17l    15-
1978       1.91        .93          .19       8.80      11.83      Vl          1.27         5eO3           6.35
1979       3.75       1.03          .21      17.61       22.60      11- 1/2     ). el5'     17.80          22.05
1980       1.47       1.13          .23      35.22       35.o5       ?          '7.c2       30.48          38.10
1.931       .10       1.24          .25      5'8,- 73    60032      8-1/2       8.26        4L30           49.56
1]982       .10       1.36          *27      5t873       6o.1b6     8           8 3<8 3     1.!4.65        53.34
1983        .10       1.            ,30     5y1.73       Oo.63    7ll/          95'3        57 .18         66.71
198h)       .10       1.65'          33      5'8.73      60.81      7          10.16        60.96          71.12
1985        o10(      1.65'         _33      t t373      608]1.    6-1/2       10,(M        61.o8o         75.60
1986        .10       1.70          .34      5'8.73      60.87      6          I1IJ3        68,5i3         80.01
1987        o10       1-70          o34 35873            6o.87      6          11.b3        68 3 8         80.01
1L988       110       180           .36      5'8.73      6o.s99     6          11.113       6805;8         80.01
1989        .10       1080          .3G      '8.73       60.99      6          11.13        68.58          80.01
1990        .10       1.90         .38       58 73       61,11      6          11,43        63, 58         80.01
1991        .10       1.(0)        .38       5'8.73      61.11      6          11,43        68.5'8         81.51
/ Shadow exchange rates were not used; in this case they would not have had a significant impact on the
eccnomic rate of return.
/ Include total capital and recurrent costs for the whole National Program carried out by the Ministry
of Labor, FUT,JA(GENTR0 and private finms.
Expected reduction of accidents is from 1551 of total work forces in 1976 to 8% in 1981, 1/2% per year
in 1982-86 and stabilization afterwards.
4 x 1 in 1978-80, 5 x 1 in 1981-82 and 6 times afterwards.
frTwo-thirds of the value of the FUNDACENTROts Headquarters in Sao Paulo.                                                  p
May 16, 1977



ANNEX 12
BRAZ Th
Vocational Training Project
Staff Training Program for SINE 1977-1979
Post               Number         Course           Course duration
of Staff     Location   Initial Training    Upgrading
Program Chiefs                25         Brasilia       30 hours            30 hours
Promotors                     25             of         30 hours            30 hours
Analysts and Research
Assistants                100         Regional       30 hours            18 hours
Administrative
Assistants                 25         Brasilia       18 hours            18 hours
Agency Chiefs                250           States       30 hours            18 hours
Social Assistants            250             of         30 hours            18 hours
Training Offices             250             it         30 hours            18 hours
Placement Officers           900             It         30 hours            18 hours
Desk Assistants              700                        18 hours            12 hours
TOTAL      2,525
May 16, 1977



BRAZIL
Vocational Training System
National Vocational Training System Organization Chart
Ministry of |  _                         Federal Council  - P.njg oa f
Labor       \                          \ of Manpower         Presidency of
the FLepblic
peeretariat General  
Secretariat of           Secretariat             Secretariat of|
Labr Rlaions          of Manpower             Employment and
8 Labor Relations'            |Wages
|FUNDACENTRO|                                                                   S    11
PIPMO    t      ~SENAR
(non Rural                (Rural
Sectors)                  Sectors)
I Confederation  \    _    _    _   _   _   _   _   _  __  _  . _ __ _ _                    Confederation
of Industry          SEEAC
I ~   ~~~~        i                                          - 
Executive relationship
-------- Advisory relatimshlp
1/ Not an institution but a program of the respective Secretariat.
2/ Regional Centers of SENAI and SENAC.



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 4
BRAZIL
Vocational Training Project
SENAI: National Structure
National Council: Representatives of the
Ministries of Planning, Finance, Edu-
cation and Labor, of the workers' and em-           Ministry
ployers' organizations and of the Fede-             of Labor
ration of Commerce         _
tTechnical Advisers          National Headquarters                       Legal Advisers
| ~~Director
|Vocational | |         Upgrading| |Payrol|        | Accounting|      jl
Training in         & In-Service      Tax                &               Personnel
SENAI Centers         Training   l|Control            Budgeting
I               i Cooperation       General                             Public
with           Services           Treasury         Relations
Enterprises .
Executive relationship
Advisory relationship
A! Regional Centers.



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 4
BRAZIL
Vocational Training Project
SENAC:  National Structure
National Council: Representatives ot the
Ministries of Planning, Finance$ Edu-
cation and Labor, of the workers' and enm-        Ministry of
ployers' organizations and of the Fede-- _           Labor
ration of Commerce
SENAC                              Legal
National Headquarters                  Council
Director_
Technical and
Administrative
Commission    I
jVocational  Research   Orien-          Statis-    Architec-   Adminis-
Training      &        tation      tistics    ture &        tration     Personnel
Divisiorn  Planning   Division   Division   Communica   Division
Division                           tion Di-
. vision                  .
Executive relationship
- - - - - - -    Advisory  relationship
- SENAC Regional Centers



BRAZIL
Vocational Training Project
FUNDACENTRO: National Structure
Ministry of
COUNCILS                    Labor
CURATORIAL - FINANCE
DELIBERATIVE - TECHNICAL
ADVISERS
- LEGAL
SUPERINTENDENT ;           _        - PUBLIC RELATIONS
.~~INTENDENT                         - PLANNING
- INTERNATIONAL
NATIONAL TECHNICAL CENTER
SAO PAULO
DEPARTMENT  DEPARTMENT [DEPARTMENT   DEPARTMENT   DEPARTMENT  DEPARTMENT  DEPARTMENT    COORDINATIO   ADMINIS   ACCOUNTING
OF          OF           OF           OF            OF          OF           OF           REGIONAL    TRATIVE   DEPARTMENT
WORK        WORK         WORK     AGRICULTURAL      WORK     EDUCATION   DOCUMENTAT        CENTERS     DEPT.
SAFETY      HYGIENE    MEDICINE       SAFETY      PSYCHOLOGY               ION
rifE
may 16, 1977
o w



ANNEX 1L
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
Vocational Train.ng Project
Technical Assistance Schedule
Total
A. Specialists                Im      1,977     1978     17        1980      1981     1982
1. SENAR                     110        9                  35       21         1        -
Rural Training
Planning                  18        -        12        6        -          -       -
Organization of
l4obile Units              8        3        -         2        2          1       -
Preparatian Inst.
iaterials                 18        4         8        3        3          -       -
Instructor Training        30        -        12       12        6          -       -
Program Control &
Evaluation                36        2        12       12        10         -       -
2. S:IE                                                    218  3  24  2
labor Market
AnaLysis                  24        3        12        9        -          -       -
Eraployment
Statistics                24        -        12       12        -
Seminar./
3. FlmACENTRO                  66      12        42       12         _
National Plannming &
Ooordination of
experts                   24        6       12         6        -
7Tork Safetv Engineer       12       -         6        6
Mine Safety                12        -       12-
A^grlcult'lral Safety       12       3         9        -
Protection Equip.           6        3        3         -
/ US$60,000 is provided to finance a seminar on employment to be held in early 1978
(para. 4.20).



ANNEX 1L
Fage 2 of 3
Total
I/m     1M      12 18    179    1980    1981    1982
4. SECRETARIAT OF MANPMER      168      12      48       48              12
Organization of train-
ing at National Level       60       3      12       12      12      12        9
Prinary sector training
at National Level           36       3      12       12       9      -         -
Secondary sector train-
ing at National Ievel       36       3      12       12       9      -
Tertiary sector training
at Natianal Level          36        3      12       12       9      -         -
5. SENAI
Evaluation of individual
instruction                __8      48      _            -           -         -
TOTAL                      440      84     158      116      60     13        9
(International Specialists)  (224)    (24)   (110)    (68)    (21)    (1)         (-)
(National Specialists)        (216)    (60)   ( 48)    (48)    (39)    (12)       (9)
B. FELLOWSHIPS
1. SENAR                            _        24 -            _
International            10       -       10      -        -       -        -
Regional (Latin America) 47       -       14      33       -       -        -
2. SINE                     82      12        0      30                        -
International            82      12       40      30      -        -        -
3. FU1ACENTRO              128                2      12
International           128      57       59      12      _       _         _
4. SECRETARIAT OF MA.NPOER  30       6        6       6      6        6
International            30       6        6       6      6        6



ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 3
Total
VMm     1977    1978    197      1980    19X      1982
5. SENAC                     O        6       6        6       6       6       _
International           30         6       6       6        6       6
TOTAL                  327        81     135       87      12      12        -
(Internatimal Fellowships)(280)   (81)   (121)    (54)    (12)    (12)         (-)
(Regional Fellowships)    (47)      ( -)   ( 14)    (33)    ( -)    ( -)       (-)
Cost  International Specialists 224 man-months at US$55,ooo per year  US$1,026,850
National Specialists       216 man-months at US$35,o000 per year       630$000
International Seminar                                                   60 .000
Sub-total Cost                         US$1,716,850
Cost  International Fellowships 280 man-months at US$1,360 per month  US$  380,000
Regional Fellowships        47 man-months at US$  875 per month  -
Sub-total Cost                         US$  421.925
Total Cost all Technical Assistance              US2
I/ All technical assistance for FUNDACENTRO, Ministry of Labor and 27% of
SENAR wiould be financed through UNDP funds as follows:
US$ .41 million for FUNDACENTRO (BRA/75/010);
US$1.09 million for the Ministry of labor including SENAR (BRA/76/12).
v.ay 16, 1977



ANNEX 15
BRAZIL
Vocational Training ProJect
Estimated Project Cost by Cate,or2 of Exnenditure
US$ (million)
Local      Foreign       Total
1.  Civil Works
a. Site Works                     3.09          .20        3.29
b. Construction                  21.63         2.40       24.03
Sub-total                        24.72         2.60       27.32
2. Furniture                          3.19          0          3.19
3.  Rquipment                        14e37         7,74       22.1.1
Sub-total 1, 2 & 3               42.28        10.34       52.62
4. Techiical Assistance                 .84        1.29         2.13
5. Staff Training                     2.33          .12        2.45
6. Teaching Materials                   .18         0            .18
7. Studies                            1.00          0          1.00
8. Professional Fees                  2.07          0           2.07
9.  Project Administration            59            0           5-97
Total Base Cost                  54.67        l1175       66.42
10. Contingencies
a. Physical (11.9?l)              6.49         1.42        7.91
b. Price (24.4%)                 14.91         3.27       18.18
11.  Total Costs                      76.07        16.Wj.
Mxay 16, 1977



BRAZIL
Vocational Training Projict
SENAI - Summary of Estimated Cost* (US$'OOOf
No.    Project Item           Student   Buildip    Site   Construction   Furniture   Equipment  Technical  Staff    Teaching   Studies  Professional  Project   Total
Name               Places    Area M-    Works                                              Assist.    Training Materials                   Fees        Admin.
01    PA/CFP. Cama9ari          240       2,355      92.8       618.4           79.7        306.2                                           -         64.0         109.7    1,270.8
02    PE/CFP. Petrolina         150       2,ooo      63.0       525.2           95.8        289.4                                           -         52.9          97.3    1,123.6
03    DF/CFP. Gama              180       2,365      70.6       588.2           56.0        311.7         -          -           -          -         59.3         102.6    1,187.8
04    GO/CFP. Vila Canaa        210       2,479      73.9       616.6           52.6        311.1          _        _            -          -         62.2         104.6    1,212.5
05    ES/CFP. Serra             340       2,707    101.0        673.3           71.8        307.0          _         _           _          _         69.7         115.3    1,338.1
o6    MG/CFP. Contagem          286       3,112    116.1        774.1           69.0        383.2          -         -           -           -        80.1         134.2    1,556.7
07    MG/CFP. Belo Horizonte  144           -         -           -              -          236.4          -         -            -          -         -            23.6       260.0
08    RJ/CFP. N. Igua5u         360       4,751    177.2    1,181.8             90.1        673.3                                                    122.7         212.2    2,457.3
09    PJ/CFP. B. Manse          160       2,o20      75.4       502.4           52.6        280.4           -         -           -            -      52.0          91.1    1,053.9
10    SP/CFP. Santos Dumont 1,058         7,070    179.4    1,674.4            151.5        865.o           -                                  -    117.2          287.0    3,274.5
11    SP/CFP, V. Leopoldina 1,372        10,845    323.8    2,697.4            194.3      1,168.7           -          -           -                 211.4         438.4    5,034.0
12    RS/CFP. Sapucaia          135       1,800      67.2       447.7           38.7        272.1           -                                         46.4          82.6       954.7
13    RS/CFP. Porto Alegre    111         1,629      60.7       405.2           43.6        260.9           -          -           -           -      41.9          77.0       889.3
Staff Training                        -         -           -              -                         -       1,032           -           -                             1,032.0
Technical Assistance                             -                  -                   -         140           -                                -             -         140.0
BASE COST             4,746      43,127  1,401.1   10,704.7             995.7      5,656.3       140        1,o32        -          -         979,8        1,875.6  22,785.2
*April 1977 Prices
May 16, 1977                                                                                                                                                                   L



BRAZIL
Vocational Training Project
SENAC - Summary of Estimated Cost* (US$'000)
Project Item         Student    BuildinR    Site                                                     Technical       Staff      Teaching                 Professional        Project
No.             N         me      Places       Area M      Works    Construction    Furniture    Equipment    Assistant    Training   NItclals   Studies                 Fees              Adun,        Total
Hotel Schools
14     DF/HE. Brasilia               265        9,809      323.1        3,734.7          576.7         253.0           -             -          -           -            284.0              488.7      5,660.2
15     SC/BE. Florianopolis          265        7,809      566.4        3,336.0          576.7         253.0           -             -          -           -            273.2              473.2      5,478.5
16     RJ/HE. Rio de Janeiro         265        7,809      566.4        3,336.0          576.7         253.0           -             -          -           -            273.2              473.2      5,478.5
Vocational Training
Centers
17     RO/CFP. Porto Velho           165        1,404       54.8          365.0           98.0           87.8          -             -                                     37.8              60.6        704.0
18     AP/CFP.   Macapa              165        1,404       43.8          292.0           98.0           87.8          -             -                                     30.2              52.2         604.0
19     MT/CFP. Campo Grande          165        1,404       54.8          365.0           98.0           87.8          -             -                                     37.8              60.6         704.0
Staff Training                 -           -         -             -               -             -             -           218.8         -           -             -                  -           218.8
Teaching Materials             -           -         -             _               _             -              -             -         175          -              _                 _           175.0
Technical Assistance           -           -         -             -               -             _            42              -          -           -                                             42.0
BASE COST                   1.290       29.639   1.609.3        11,428.7        2,024.1       1.022.4         42            218.8       175          -             936.2           1.608.5    19.065.0
* April 1977 Prices
May 16, 1977



BRAZIL
Vocational Traiinna ProJect
FUNDACENlEO - Sumrv of Eat:imted Qogt* (US$0POO)
No.     Project Item          Student  Btuilding  Site   Construction  Furniture  Equipment  Technical   Staff           Teaching    Studies  Professional  Project         Total
Name             Places   Area M2   Works                                           Assistance  Training  Materials                   Fees        Admin.
20   SP/National Technical
Center & Sao Paulo
Regional Center          405       5,347    284       1,893.3        169.7       683.4                                                       152.5        303.0       3,485.9
21   MG/B. Horizonte Center    -           -        -           -             -         152.8                                 -                                  15.3          168.1
22   SC/Porto Alegre Center                                                             152.8                                                         -          15.3          168.1
23   PE/Recife Center            -          -       -           -                       152.8         _                                               -          15.3          168.1
24   BA/Salvador Center          -          -       -           -              -        152.8          -          -          -           -           -           15.3          168.1
25   DF/Brasflia CenteT          -          -                                           152.8          -           -                                             15.3          168.1
26   AM/Manaus Center            -           -       -           -             -        152.8          -           -          -           -                      15.3          168.1
27   PR/Curitiba Center                      -       -           -              _       152.8          -            -                                            15.3          168.1
28   RJ/Rio J. Center             -          -       -                          -       152.8          -            -         -            -          -          15.3          168.1
Technical Assistance                                                       -        -           481.7          -         -                                               481.7
BASE COST                 405       5,347    284       1,893.3         169.7    1,905.8         481.7          _         _            _       152.5        425.4       5,312.4
*April 1977 Prices
May 16, 1977



BRAZIL
Vocational Training Project
Summary Total Project Costs*(US$'000)
Project Item        Student      Buildin8      Site                                                    Technical      Staff       Teaching                   Professional      Project
No.             Name             Places        Area M      Works      Construction    Furniture    Equipment    Assistant    Training    Materials    Studies                 Fees           Admin.       Total
1-13     Senai                   4,746        43,127    1,401.1       10,704.7            995.7       5,656.3         140.0       1,032.0          -            _            979.8         1,875.6      22,785.2
14-19     Senac                   1,290        29,639    1,609.3       11,428.7          2,024.1       1,022.4          42.0         218.8        175.0          -            936.2          1,608.5     19,065.0
20-28     Fundacentro               405         5,347       284.0        1,893.31/         169.7       1,905.8         481.7          -             -            -            152.5           425.4        5,312.4
29     Senar                            -            -           -                       -         13,526.5         559.3          -            _-                                           -        14,085.8
Sine                                                                                            -            394.8       1,201.4         -            -              -               -          1,596.2
Ministry of
Labor                 -             -          -             -               -             -            514.5           -            -                           -2.060.0                   3,574.5
Base Costs              6.441        78,113    3,294,4       24.026.7         3,189.5      22.111,0        2,132.3       2.452.2       175.0         1,000        2.068.5         5.969.5      66,419,1
Contingencies             -             -         494.2       2,402.7            319.0       3,316.6         213.2         245.2       175.0           100          206.8           597.0        7,912.2
Physical Increase         -             -          (15%)        (10%)            (10%)         (100%)        (1070) (10%)                             (10%)         (10%)            (10%)        (11.9%)
Sub-total                                   3,788.6       26,429.4         3,508.5      25,427.6       2,345.5        2,697.4       192.5        1,100        2,275.3          6,566.5      74,331.3
Price Increase            -             _       1,098.7       7,664.5            947.3      5,594.1          445.6         512.5         28.9          209          432.3         1,247.6       18,180.5
_             -         (29%)         (29%)           (277)         (22%)          (19%)         (19%)       (15%)         (19X)         (19%)            (197)       (24.4%)
Total Cost                              -       4.887.3      34,093.9         4.455.8      31,021.7        2,791.1       3,209,9        221.4        1.309        2.707.6          7.814.1      92.511,8
*   April 1977 Prices
/  Only for 405 student places,  new construction for the Sgo Paulo FUIDACENTRO
Headquarters.                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
May 16, 1977






BRAZIL                                                                                                              P321TX 20
Vocational Training Proiect
Contingency Allowances
(in US$'000)
Technical               Staff               Teanhing                              Professional                Project
Site Workn        C-ontr-ctioc              Fcrniture              Eqiiprent           AcOictance              Training _tMateraial                     Sices                  Fee                    Adsin.                        Totals
Forsigc    Locai    eig         Local    Foreign       Local    Foreign    Local       Forsign      Local    Foreign    Local   conESig    Loc.l  Foreign    Local    Foreign    Logal             Foreign      Local      Prias       Locai         Total
BaRo toots                 197.7   3,096.7   3,904.4   20,122.3         -      3,189.5    7,738.9   14,372.1   1,295.0         837.3        _      2,452.2        -      175.0      -       1,000                 2,068.5                 5 2,969.5   13,135.8   53,283.3   66,419.1
Phyoical Contingencies       29.7     464.5      390.4    2,012.2                318.9    1,160.8    2,155.8        129.5       83.7        -         245.2       -       17.5      -         100         _         206.8        -          597.0    1,710.4    6,201.8    7,912.2
(p-rc-ntge)              (15%)      (157)      (lO)        (10%)               (1) /) (15%) (107.)                (10C-1)    (107.       -         (10%)               (101)      -                              (10%)         -          110%)      (11.97,)  (11.97.)    (11.9%)
Bloe Cost In-ldtiin
Physical Cnnticgengiec    227.4   3,561.2   4,294.8   22,134.5          -      3,508.4    8,899.7   16,527.9   1,424.5         921.0        -      2,697.4        -      192.5      -       1,100         _      2,275.3         -        6,566.5   14,846.2   59,485.1   74,331.3
Price C-tingengien:
Anount                       65.9   1,032.8   1,245.5    6,419,0        -        947.3    1,957.9    3,636.1        270.7      174.9                  5 512.5     _       2S.9      _         209         -         432.3        -        1,247,6    3,622.4   14,558.1   18,180.5
Perccetage                  (297.)    (29%)      (291/)      (297.)     -         (2T7)       (226)      (22%)      (19%)      (19%)        -         (19%)       _      (15%)      -         (19%)                 (197)                     19;o)   (24.4%)   (24.4')    (24.4%)
Coot IncludinR All
Conticg-nies                293,3   4,594.0   5,540.3   28.553,s        -      4,455.7   10,857.6   20,164.0   1,695.2   1,095.9            -      3,209.9               9214       -       1                       7n7.367 -  9   - 6._7814.0   18.468.6   74,043.2  9. l52I a
May lb, 1977






BRAZTL
Vocational Training Project
Estimated Recurrent Expenditures and Unit Costs of SF.NAI Projeect Items (1981)
(at 1977 prices)
Recurrent Ex .enditures 1981
Of VAlich                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~US$
Non-                                                                      Annual
Teachiing   Teaching  Material                                  Total       Total        Cost      Cost
Personnel  Personnel  & Supplies   Maintenance  Others           Trainee   Trainee        Trainee  Trainee/
Centers        Total       35%         15%      _   13%           10%                     Places    Hoturs/year  Place    llour
Camacari          .29         .10         .04         .04             .03        .08           240      323,100       1,210        .90
petrolina          .43        .22         .10         .08             .06        .18           150      279,600       2,867      1.54
Gama ]             .46        .16         .07         .06             .05        .12           180      316,815       2,556      1.45
Serra-             .34        .06         .03         .02             .01        .05           340      396,720       1,000        .86
Canam-/           .34         .06         .03         .02             .01        .05           210      389,250       1,620        .88
Contagem           .43        .15         .06         .06             .04        .I.2          286      448,800       1,'03        .96
Belo Horizonte   .17          .06         .03         .02             .01        .05           204      209,616         833        .81
Nova Iguacu       .99         .34         .14         .13             .10        .28           360       900,030      2;750      1,10
Barro Mansa        .34        .12         .06         .04             .03        .09            160      300,000      2,125      1.13
rorto Alegre       .26        .09         .04         .03             .03        .07            111      225)000      2,342       1.16
Sapucaia           .34        .12         .06         .04             .03        .09            135      283,500      2,519       1.20
Sao Jose         3.59       1.26          .54         .46             .36        .97         1,058   2,639,090        3,393       1.36
dos Campos
V. Leopoldina   4.70        1.64          .70         .61             .47       1.28         1,372   3,263,330        3426        1.44
Total         12.68       4.38        1.90         1.61           1.23        3.43         4,806   9,974,821        2 I 8       1.27
/Bank mission estimates.
SOURCE:  SENAI (except Serra and Canar which are Bank Mission estimates).
May 16, 1977



BRAZIL
Vocational Traning Project
Estimated Recurrent Expenditures and Unit Costs of SENAC Project Items (1981)
(at 1977 prices)
Recurrent Expenditures 1981 (US$M)                                     US$-
of which                                        Annual
Non                     Total     Total         Cost         Cost
Teaching I/ Teaching 2/         3/      Trainee   Trainee       Trainee      Trainee
Centers            Total     Personneel-  Personnel-  Others-        Places    Hours/year   Place         Hour
HS Brasilia           .63        .05            .15         .43         265         879,000      2,378         .72   632,800
HS Florianopolis      .63         .05           .15         .43         265         879,000      2,378         .72   632,800
HS Rio de Janeiro    .63          .05           .15         .43         265         879,000      2,378         .72   632,800
VTC Campo Grande      .13         .07           .03         .03         165         204,675        788         .64   130,900
VTC Porto Veiho       .13         .07           .03         .03         165         204,675        788         .64    130,900
VTC Macapa                                      .03         .03         165         204,675        788         .64    130,900
Total           2.28         .36            .5h       1.38        L2.         3,251.025      1,776        .70  2,291.100
-   Full time teachers only for the academic or theoretical aspects of students training.
2/ Hotel employees acting sometimes as instructors are computed under this column.
-   Includes:  materials, supplies, heat, light, power, maintenance, amortization, insurance and overheads.
source:  SENAC
May 16, 1977
IX



BRAZ IL                                 AMIEX 2
Vocational Training Project
Hotel Schools: Financalj Ana3ysis
A) Projected cost of oPerationnat full i=DeMntatim (at 1977 US$ cost )
Operating costs                    Hotel        School          Total
Teaching salaries                    -          48,149         48,149
Non-teaching salaries            106,900        37,556        144,456
Materials and supplies            69,630         8,900         78,530
Heat, light, power                23,704         5,934         29,634
Maintenance                       26,667         5,934         32,601
Amortization                     177,800        44,445        222,245
Others                            42,962        31,111         74,073
Total cost of operation          447,663       182,029        629,692
Less hotel revenue                                            610,740
Net cost of operation                                          18,952
/ US$1 - Cr$13.50
B)               Hotel School Net Income (1981)
(at 1977 US$ Cost)
1. Sales                                                      US$
ooms-l/ (25,200 x 18.52)                                  466,740
Restauint (20,000 x 3.7)                                   74,000
Others-                                                    70,000
Total                                                  610,740
2. Operational Cost (Hotel)
Salaries                                                  106,900
Materials (Restaurant)                                     66,660
Maintenance and others                                      59,300
Social Secur~y                                             37,200
Amortization-                                             177,603
Total                                                  447,663
Net income of the Hotel                                US$163,077
1/ Rate of occupancy = 70%
2/ Valet, sauna, barber, boutique, telephone: 15% of room sales.
3/ 2% per year out of 80% of the value of the building (Hotel) plus
10% per year out of 80% of the value of furniture and equipment.
may 16, 1977



ANNE -24
BRAZIL
Vocat;Lona1 Traininz Proiect
Budget a-nd Estimted Recurrent BzM,sditvreu of SENAR proLeot ito  (191
a) Total. Budzet and ProJeot Orating Cos0t (US$M)
SENAR Budget
Of -which-
Project
Year     Tot      al           SIfalais    C        MA  Other      One.ra1L  tCos         bai9
T-)rr       (2)'       (3)          (4)      75)              (6)            (6)st1)
1977      8.5        0.5         4.3         3.1        0.6             0.22             2.6
1978     13.6        o.4         6.4         6.o        0.8             0.72             5.6
1979     21.2        0.1         9.3        10.6        1.2             2.77           13.1
1980     21.5        0.1         9.5        10.7        1.2             6.34            29.4
1981     21.8        0.1         9.7        70.8        1.2             7.0            32.1
b) SENAR Estimated Project Recurrent Exgenditures at full imuiemantation
Prolect Recurrenit Expendit s 1981 (US$4)                             uSs$
fI which                             Operating Costs
Total    Instructor  Nan-teac1i4g  Material & Maintenance        per        per        per
Salsaries    SalariesY    9Upple                       z rmoblle   trainee    trainee
unit                  hour
7.0       1.60         1.20           .35          3.85        34,900      25
/ It includes prsonnel responsible fcr a2l  mobile units (180 under the project and
existing 30)
T It includes gasoline cost.
/ Including all instructorst salaries of the part of the program executed by EM&TER,
the unit cost per trainee/hour amounts to US$ .24.
Source: Ministry of Labor and mission estimates.
May 16, 1977



BRAZIL
Vocaticnal Training Prolect
Proiect Unit: Proiosed Relationfl and Oranizaticn Chart
I"iiistry of Labor
t   General Secretariait                             Project Unkit
FUNDAQEIJTRO         .             :                  of
Labor Relations                       II
SEKATAI                                                     a _
I--------          iat of ~~~--- - ---u
Secretariat of
;og             Construction_       Vocational     Accountig
Training
Executive relations
Supporting relations
_______----- Supervision relations                                                                                            T
dTay 16, 1977



BRAZIL                                           A    lI
Voeata1 T~~~~~~~.du~~~m, Nelmet1of 
Iaplaeentation Schedule
Activities and Institutions                 1977           1978             1979             1980           1981             1982V/
1. Selection 6 Appointment of Consul-
tants.
A.  Senai                                  x x
B. Senac
Hotel-Schools                          x              x      x
Centers                                x     x               x
C.  Fundacentro                              x
2. Surveying, Soil Test
A.  Senai                                  x x
B. Senae
Hotel-Schools                         x               x x
Centers                               x      x              x
C. Pundacentro                               x
3. Design
A.  Senai                                  xx x x         ,x
B. Senac
Hotel-Schools                         x x x             x x x         x x
Centers                               xxxx            xx   x          xx
C.  Fundacentro                                x x        x
4. Civil Works Tendering
A.  Senai                                      xx         xx
B. Senae
Hotel-Schools                                x        x     x         x x x
Centers                                    xx           xx              xx
C.  Fundacentro                                           x x
5. Construction
A.  Senai                                        x        xxxx             xxxx            xxxx             x
B. Senac
HCtel-School                                          xx x x          x x x x          x x x x         x x x x
Centers                                               x xx x X         x x             x x x xx
C.  Fundacentro-                                            x xx           x x x x         x x
6. Furniture Listing, Specifications
& Tendering.
A.  Senai                                      x x        x x x x
B. Senac
Hotel-Schools                                         x x                xi            x x
Centers                                               x x             x x x x          x x x x
C.  Fundacentro                                                            x x x x
7.  Furniture Manufacture, Delivery
& Installation
A.  Senai                                                 x x x x          x x x x
B. Senae
Hotel-Schools                                                          xx              xxxx             xx
Centers                                                   x x
C.  Fundacentro                                                                x x          x x
1/ Calendar Years.



AMNC 26
Page 2 of 2
Activities and Institutions                  1977             1978            1979             1980             1981               98 v
8. Equipment Listing, Specifications
& Tendering.
A.  Senai                                           x x        x x x x
B. Senac
Hotel-Schools                                             x x x x          xxx              x x
Centers                                        x x        x xxx           x x  xx
C. Fundacentro
National Headquarters                                          x x         x x
Regional Centers                                                           x x x x
D.  Senar                                          x x         x x x x         x x
9. Equipment Manufacture, Delivery
& Installation.
A.  Senai                                                      x xxx           x x  xx
B. Senac
Hotel-Schools                                                                  x x          x x x x          x x
Centers                                                        x x        X x x X           x x
C. Fundacentro
National Headquarters                                                          x x          xx
Regional Centers                                                                            xx x x
D.  Senar                                                      x xxx            x x x x         xxxx              x x
10.  Technical Assistance
B.  Senac                                          x x         x xx x          x x x x          xx x x
C.  Fundacentro                                                 xxx              x x x          xx
D.  Senar                                                      x               xxxx             x                 xx xx
E.  Sine                                           x x         x xx x          x x xx
F.  Ministry of Labor                              x x         x xx x          x x x x          xxx               x x x x
G.  Staff Training
A.  Senai                                                      x xxx           xx
B.  Senac                                                     x xx             xx
C.  Sine                                           x x-        x xx            Xxx
11.  Teaching Materials, Evaluation
& Studies.
A.  Senai                                          x x'
B.  Senac                                                     x x
C.  Ministry of Labor                                         x x xx           x xx x
12.  Professional Services                          x x x x         x xxx           xxx               xxxx             xx x 
13.  Project Administration                              x x        x     x x   * xx                     .xx
1/ Calendar Years.
May 16, 1977



ANNEX 27
BRAZIL
Vocational Training Project
Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000)
Accumulated        Undisbursed
Fiscal Year         Semester         Disbursements          Disbursement          Balance
1978               1                  100                    100             31,900
2                2,100                  2,200             29,800
1979               1                5,150                  7,350             24,650
2                6,800                14,150              17,850
1980               1                5,800                 19,950             12,050
2                6,650                26,600               5,400
1981               1                2,400                 29,000               3,000
2                1,400                30,400               1,600
1982               1                1,000                 31,400                 600
2                  500                31,900                 100
1983               1                  100                 32,000                --
i.Tay 16, 1977



AIRM X 2 8
Page 1 of 2
------------------------------------------------------------- 7------- 7------ 7........ 7 -7   --------- 7--------- 7------                                            7------ 7
: GNP/ : X GNP   :% TOTAL:%  CIF PUBLIC I                     I        I           IPRI. 1AV.PAl.   I                  8        ISEC   I          I
I        ICAPITA: n[VOTEDIPUBLIC t EMUCATION    tLITER- e PRI. eCOMPLE- sSTU- ISCH.TEACHIPROGRE33-1 SEC. ISTU- I                                            I
I        IAl         Tn EDU,i  FXP. t RECURRENT    IACY                iENROLLiTION          IDENTS13ALARY INSION RATE  tENROLLIDENTSiMIGHERs
I        1"ItRKETS (PURLICIDEVOTCDIEXP ALLOCATEDs  RATE  iRATID tRATE FORiPER   ORELATION #FROM PRI.IRATIO iPER   IENROLLS
II-lip. SPRICESS EXP.    6To    I                Tot        ItIt OF   I NET   OPRI SCH.ITEACHI TO GNP/ #TO SEC,   j MET   17EACM- RATIOt
Y--'ImlttS.l (US$)$ ONLY)   iFOU. aPRI. 3EC, M1.1ADULT3)j (X)   iCYC1E(%)iFR    i CAPIIA   t (%)                                   i M       oER    I (z)   I
(1) it   (2) :   (31    : (4)                  (S)          (6)    : (7)   : (8)    :(9)               (101    : (11)         :(12)   :(13) :(14)
.....................................................................................                                                  ............
ADVANCED
;,J;T;-l ;         73    7.SL 4 , 11 I at    4.5       919      479   25Q   209    99           96        93         ab         2,0          99         St       19        6,00
CANADA            7.1  Pe."It' 6,191IIE      7.7    19,11       so .Ss    19          96       89         98         24         2.0         99          82       37        9,00
GERMANV F REV. F. ime.OE 6. Zbot           4.P    in'?        -      14kA 26        99       91         99         31                     99          91       22      17,OOCY
JAI'AN            71 tO9.1F 4, o7nF          4 3    20,7        49    38    12        99       990        99C        29C        2.0         99C         94D      20C    26,000
NEtHERLANDS    7e   I 1. 9f: 5,29nt          9:9    19,IG    3a    45    19           99       915         99        29         340         97          73       P, 0    11,00
NE. ZEALAND    7 lt I11 l' 11 . I I rIt      r, .2    ...       39    ?4    29        99       99         99         26                      99         67       19      24 00
N1IR.AY            7 1  11 11C S , Runt     Iti   IS;z         sn    ?3    1 3       99       99         98         ?0         1.9          99         76       1 4      1 1 .00
S-F DEN           7 i    8 .,?I 7,24(t       A"        60 u     16    114    i 3      99       99         99         1 7                    90           5       I 0     30, 00
U.K.              I,,  51; . 91, 3, Sq ME    6:3   t'2,7        26    39    22        98       99          ...       26         ;:0                     :3       17       11.0
1). S. A .        7,- ZI I . 9V 6. 670t      f, 1)    I S . 11  ...  73kk 27          99       99         99         29U        2.0                     93       19U    29. 01,
q)L P. tvqnt     ? .;.    I I I     54Y   29V   14Y    82A         9-SY       . . .      32Y       . . .        IUA        58Y       43V    1 1 , 00
IRELAND           71,   3. 1 EP. S20F           I    IS. "      43Y   41Y   14Y    90          97         994        3s        . . .        9SA        75        1 9       7, OOA
POR I UGAL         7e    9 oE I . 6 SaF                                                                                                                  sxv    . . .      7.60Y
St' A I N         7 1Ili. IE ?. ilq(f        ;:;A   ;;:;A                                         A                                                    29A       30        6.00A
AF fl I C A
; RJA                  I S. 7     771%      7 .-i              4tG   SP9   ISC    30          76         62E        4at        6.QG        49F         1 7      2S        4,00
14t NIN                  I.,lE    I Pol'    -, . S    V 0       47    "I    I 0       1 1      32XB       7 0 Iq     5418      M ON         438          78      395       0,44CY
B; TSWANA        I I t . /        P911      S . 0    20,11    'SA    ?O    ts        2s        7OX       75         39         s . 0       24          13X      la        0.30Y
B I?uNnl          74    it.fi       9.)      Ps    I9199    47W   4tR   12R    I,0             2OX        lo?        38        to.0          14          2X      18        1 .0
CAME RIIIIN        I    II L      2SOE      S:q    20 I)       say   ?9Y   ITY    ...          74          . .      91DY                                9       23CY    0,90cy
C . ,R.           7,;    1I L,   ?I of       4 .,IN   it) I 41  96    1 9     ...    ...        64cy      Pli        6lic Y                              SCY    27by    0,07Y
I S   I . OL    I w-E      i       In 11     78    22              is       29xey    10           690Y       ;.u           a          2xey   30         0.01gy
CHAD
CONGn( S I         7:1      I      117-1     6::"
ig'-s     40    32    21        907    133X         63         63         6.0         48         33X       22       3,40
71  A6. I       119.1     5 . S     . 11     29    36    24        40       74X        a S        4 0       . . .        64         lqy       28      It . 0 o
ETHI               14  I          I 00       I 1    20 to      4?    ag    Is         7        1 7c      42         S(         3. 0        63           2       so        0. 20
GABUN             7 S    U      1,960t       9 :,I   20 6       25      9     1 1     ...    184XBY    25C           46C        r, . 0       ISA       20C       21C       1,40cy
GHANA             71    9.6L    /iltiF       II. I    24t4DR   380   1 SO   230    ...         56XCY    62           IOCY    . . .           1 4        1 1 x    16CY    0,748Y
IV(IRY COAST    Y2    6.1it   1160F          6. i    eii. I     27qy 338Y 13Y          9A      92         %7A        46                     ; ; -      ; 0       25        1.20BY
KENYA             7-i  1 2 QE    ?(oF        6.1N   e7 u        63    1 1     1 1     40       73         ...        4u         ;:0                      2       23        1.039Y
LESO rSil         79    L . ?      tint    12 OP   231u         49    18    2o        40       85         90         r, 2       7.ON        a I         I 0      26        1. 00
LIBERTA           ?S    L . s      41 0      ?: 11   t3.?       27    1 `S   20       73       Ss          . . .     31;        2,0          , . .     1 2       26        1.10AY
MADAGASCAT?        711   8.6       ISO       3. ?    I??. I     S I    24    25       40       68X        30         6 S       I Is . 0     46          9x       26        1 .0 0
MALAWI            711  'I . 9      I SO       i.1    20.9       ...    ...    ...    25        9fix       ow         SO         7 . 0       40          4x       20       0,26cy
MALI              7111   9 GE       "'i      4 fiN   v'S        168  '528   120    Inc          taA       22A        40A       14 , 08      37A         4A       IIA      0,16AY
MAUNIIANIA         y')    I . 'IL    2911F   4:5    211.0       ...    ...    ...    I 0        tsx        ...       22         ...         ...          3       24        ...
MAU141 I IUS       7 1-1   U.9F    9NOF      3.7    1 1 ;700   7 1     1 0     4      no       86         94         3 1        . . .        . . .     31        10        1 .47ey
MOROCCO           1.1   I 6 . I    54(       S.0c   lb's        44    47       9      467       r) 4 x    P 1        37         . . .       St         13X       a 1      2,00
NIGERIA            7 171. OE    127F          S.^               40A   24A   20A    ...         39xcv    ...          34cy                                        20cy    0,37CY
RWANDA             73    It ..It    Flnt     3.?C   OR 00              ...    ...    23        5?                    S I        ...         . . .       2        1 3      0.23CY
SENEGAL            I 1   'I . 9L    isilE    4 . ON   22,90R   38A   42A    S A       t 0      3ax         . . .     4 6                               I I x     25       1 I 7 I c Y
SlEliPA LEONE   7i    0.91F    1 9-IF        I .,I   23,4       3 1    36    5 o      ts?      34X        45         32         4.OE        6 S        13X       2 I      0,530Y
St 104AL I A      7 9    3.,?      IOA       3. ?a   10,80    490   t60   190    lio?          34X        86         3r,       Io.0         60          3        1 5      0.1 0
SUDAN             7 1!  I 1i . 1?    2 30E  11 . r,    1 3. P  43    29    as        I S      38         7i         4 1)       4.0         25         1 1      20        1,23Y
SWAZILAND         719    o . 1,    1171,      i.8      ...      38    31    19        -io      73         71         la         3. 8        St         24        22       1 , 00
TANZANTA          ?;I  I 11 . IIE    I ulif  Ii. I N   1 7,i)   36    ...   1 2       63       44X        . . .      49         . . .        T          2       ?IC       0.30
TUNISIA           7 i    S . %    65,11F    6. S    e3,4       37    43    is        55       72         ei         41         6,D         31         J4       a]        3,00
UGANDA            Io   1 1.2F    ?4nE        S. PN   I 7,6CR   400   22Q   250    25A          aaxcy    ...          36         . I .       14A         4xcy   21         0,58ov
UPPER VOL[&    72    -3 . RE        9OF      q.0    21.9        6-i    I 0     6       r,       I 0       . . .      4-i       18.0         20          2       23        coolay
ZAIRE             is   24 . IE    I Sof      S 2CN 21 ;IC    94C   17C   29C    tS             63         lo         44A        6,0         43          a       24        0,96gy
ZAMBIA            711  'I.8       qpo        r1:3    14.2       34    18    t6        43       Be         80         47         9.0         20         ts       22        1.00
CENIRAL AMERICA AND TWE CARIBBEAN
a-lin-F----
S 2    22,7       97    2S    12        89        86CY      115        29         3.0         158        22cy    ?5        IZOIICY
DOMINICAN REP.7P    14.6t    6SOF            3: 0    13.9       42    24    22        St       80         17         54         5.0D        63         1 3.5    24        7 .00
EL SALVADOR    75    I.AL    ItnE             1. 6    23,8      61      S     22      608      69 C       ...        39cy       . . ,       3 9        13xc    ?ICY    4,35BY
G IJ A I E M A L A  7 A  q.3E    qgnf        I '"    160        SS    2 3     1 4     4 ?      6 4        26         SS         5.0         b 9         a       2 5       Al , 0 9 Y
HAITI             7 P    4.9[    lTnE        11 . 9    6,6D    6 t     t I     a      200      22         ?S?        4 13       S.0         so          3       2 3       1,00?
HUNDURAS           71      A L    i I 11 E  3.q    26,S0    64    t 3        t a     52       etx        I 8        3 7        6.0         7 5        lgx      1 4       3.Do
JAMAICA            I "      011tI 9,lE       6 . SY   1 9$7     33Y   2zv    ly    86         I(6xY       ...        S2         . . .       ...        32XY    I 9        4, 7gy
MEXICI            TO   S7.QfIn9nE            2 6       9 3      S4    an       2      76       7 1        31         46         3 u         63         19       23        6j32CY
NIC4RAGUA         7 ;I   2 , 11 L  67nE         S    1 4 11. P  6 1    t 3    It 3    97       b's        21         37         2: 0        93         1 7      P4        7.00
TRINIDAD 9 1. 7 1        1I LI , 7 ( OL         I    tft,9       3     2 7    1 2     9 a      9 1) x     a I        39        4 . 0        1 5        49       25        2.56AY
SIAUIH AMERICA
-------------
BOL I V I A        7 6   'i8       IISF      S.0    17,SF         ..   ..             38       178        29D        ?4         SF                      49      IOD       . . .
BQAZIL            71; 1 t) I11  I . 1, I 1!  S . n    1 2,4     4?F   20E    37E   64A         86G        ...        27cy       . . .                  26C      ISCY    6,008
CHILE             72   1 u11 K    Pi iflE    ti . bY   I ti, 6AY   36Y   t4Y   36Y    ...    tltXDY    ...           379Y       . . .                  48XDY   . . .      I 4 .
COLUMBIA          7 u23,1t    VOnE           I . ow    1 019    3 I    t a    ao      7 3      67         2ii        36         It, u       90         1 7      1 4       4,00
ECUADIIR          72    6.9t    lie(F        3. 7    27.7C    4 IRY 420Y IOGY   69             72         ...        la         . . .       . . .      la       1 4       4,97SY
GUYANA            711   o.9        9041      r, . SN   I 4.70    47    3S    14       93A      92X        19         33         6.0         19         62X      ?a        I AD 0
PARAGUAY          711   2.9       -; 1.1      I . 8    I 1;Q    S 9    I 3    22      9 1      82         ob         3 c        1.9         65         t 7      1 2       stoo
PERI)             7 1t4.9t    7$10E          I .5    2 ti , t D    SO    22    1 S    72       8 0        iss        39DY       3 .0        ? 0        30       23DY   12,00
VENEZLIELA        73   1 t .6t 1.904'f       11.6    19.9       309   28Q   35G    77A         8i                    3S        2, 4         . . .      33       ...    12,63CY
I



A NNE7,X 2 8
Page 2 of 2'
COMPRATIE EDCATON  IDICAORS (CaNTD)
APRI:!L 7,1977 I
*  gGNP/ I I GNP   II TOTAL:%  Of PUBLIC  I                 I                    PRI,  IAV.PRI,   I             I        iSEC   *
*   CAP;TAI  nCV0TEDIPU,8LlC : EDUCATION    iLITER-  EPRJ. ICOMPLE.  I3TU.  i3CH,TEACHiPROGRE33Si 3EC, iSTUm i
*Al    inT EDU.I    xp. g RECURRENT    lACY                 ENROLLITinN        IOENYSISALARY INSION RATE  1ENROLLIDENTINSHIGMERi
I       IMARKFTI (PU8LIC,DEVOTEDsEXP ALLOCATEDI   RATE IRATID  IRATE FORIPER   IRELATION ,FROM PRI.IRATIO iPER   IENROLLI
IPOP p*  *PRICESI Copr.    I  TO    I        T0g       its OF   I NET   i#RI.3CM.lTEACHi TO GNP/ iTO SEC.   I NET   ITEACH* RAT10i
Y17,MILLS.1 (IISS)l ONI Y) I      EDU, iPRI.  SEC, ml.aADULTS)i  (S)   lCYCLE(IiER    i CAPITA   i  (8                  i (2    lERt    I CZ)I
I       I        II                   IIIII       I          I           I        I                     I
I  I() I~ I1?) I  ( 1    I  (0)I            (5)          (6)        7 7)  I  () IS     (9)       I (0)     MI)       1(12)   .13) I  CAI
ASIA AND) OCEANIA
AF--IS   - 711  I,,.1     I t      ..               39P  25P   16P    10         26X       20       02         ,0         18         80      2 1     1.0 0
BANGLADESH       73  76,,(      I tortE   I .2    20,2.       .     .          23      561        .*       R ... As.                       211     28
CHJNA(IAJI,AN) 73   IS. IL    A I 0       3.2    1 lo      it     j  0  -2 2   82      9BIC      90        Ot0      II.I                   61 C     26     20;OOC
INDIA            72 S99,6[    lI OIE     ? * NY I* .         .      ..        2?9      79)      .*. .      4lA       . . .       *...      281     20AY    4,OOAY
INDONFSIA        70 12PA.IF    22nG    I2.a    I2,         63     3    10     62       63        00        12        2,AUG      91I        12      2 6      2. 00
IRAN             73 133.1 It,250E         S. S   t,6    -50R   288   128    so         77        74AA      12        5.08       BOA       24       32       24.32cy
JR AD            7)-  I uR 8tI I II 1    6. 7    16,3nR . .'.... 26                    61CY      . ..      22        ..           .       26XCY  26         6.2SCY
JOIRDAN          71   ?.OE    1 S'tlE     7 . (   8.8    5'2    1 5    221    59       91        it,       3 8                             9.  8  Bx  22    8,00
K ORE A          75  35. I      51If     ?.q          t6,OR    69    33  2     92D0   10 9       98        92        5 .9        77        551     38       7,6
LE BA NON        7,?    .2   ,to I I       *11    .9    1RtFl  39    00    10  68      86        65        29        2.0        63         26U     25      23,00
MALAYSIA         74I  227      600       .0I   28.0       00    32    II1    60C      96F       90        32        0 .00O      83SF     ROF      27F      3,00F
OMAN             7 ?   0. 72  1,6(60E     I .7N    3,8     96     -   -        20      200       99        31        7*0         . ..      0.4X     9
PAK101 AN        75  "9         I So O    I *6    16.2     4 9    25   I28     21t     47X       SItl      39        ?.0         . . .     170     18       6.00;
PAPiJA N.G.      i 75    2.0    'tIlt    5*6    16, 'I     38    2 6    242    32      57?       73P             1  2. 0        90         12X?    20       0.90?
PHILIP'PINCS    7 1  ' I 'LE    s3tE    ,' .     Il1. 9   73    25    12      87     to04      ...       301      25. 0        . ..     460      . ..    21 .0 0
SINGAPORE        7'l   2.PE ?,2'IOt       1 .1    16.?     40    II    2 5     79A     960       7?A       33        . ..       99A       57Y      ?A1      8.25Y
SYRIA      75    1.0~~~~I '  6 6    0,'6    6. 9     1 9    25    26    953      89        71        35i       2.0u       92         45      21      12.00
TIHARILAANn      70   L0    It A  )      /I) ,INF 21),7F   65,    9    is,   82        870       91C       3?        S,0  U     9IC       220      28       2.0 0
T114K[Y           2   0 7. 90    6 000    ...   i3,0        . ....    ...2.OSYCY    ...                    34DY      ,.          .        2200    2700    5,318y
YEH1N            70    ,  o~II    I 8,11,E     0,  / '.7   45P  21P  23P    1 0         151       II       36        5.          1          2      19       0,0sBY
YtEMEP 1',D.R.  7'1  I.oE    2?f)E       2. SA   I ?.b6    79    22     -      10      100       31        29       11 . 0      99         220     20       0. 08AY
NUOBE R I)F COINI 1JNT   3:               751    70S     70    69    69          12   89        9 5       I8           5 13    55        7 9      75        704
RANGE:                      (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.-   (3.8.   (25   (0.    0-    (9-  I f-  (Il    1 - C19-    11,8-    (17-     I(.0-    (9-       (,01-
12.tIP     32. 3    96 It 52) 4 00)    98)      18001    09 I       65 I       25.1)    99)I      75S. 0)  4t3      23,0)
0UARTILESii,pr1it                      S.     e22,1      95    St   22      75       8i7       75        0 6         a        8 (I      29       26       6,0
M EO)I A IfI              'I.     1Rl       1 5   21    15 9   50       721       50        18          5        61        1 6      23      2.00
I                      3ER  t    13.As,9"    A8   I6    1 2  2 1     52        30    1  S            3        a's        9        0       * 9
-MAGPI'.TIID  NTI. OR 1F'ILIf.IRLE SRI297 1                       NuGDP
?  GIESTI,INAVLE            ~~~~~~~~Cu2972                P=INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                      COUMNSII AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
A  INLIItDES PART.Timr STYdDFNTS DxI9711                            Q:CENTRAI.  GOVT. ONLY                                          OR lORD MISSIONS
A*  CLtMRIN4T .ITH PRIMARY             Ls 29701                      RzMINISTRY OF EDUCAtION (MOE) ONLY                     3 TO 14 18R0 MISSIONS
Fm197q                       3:MGE AND STATE GOvT.  ONLY                                      AND/OR UNESCO
G=1976                        T3EXCLUDING CFNTRAL. GOVT.                                      STAT1STICAL
U21PUBLIC ONLY                                                  YEARBOOK
V=INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPFNDITURE
XEINCLUDING OVFRAGED STUDENTS
YEUNESCI) SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATIOIN DATA AROE IJSEFIIL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVe STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
OEVELIIPHENT HET'EEN VAR1rt11S COULNTRIES. HOUWtVER,ON4 THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT cAuTILiN. O)ATA POESFNTEDTNI THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCEST THE
PEWAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIHAYES 18R DATA FROIM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCVRACY OF THE DATA. NEVERIHFLESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THt f)CCASIIJN OF ITS I'PlERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THF FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
HI 501
(1)'EDIJCATIJUN' AS DEFINEn IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FOIRMAL AND NON-FORMAL,
(2)"P'9IMARY CDUCATZION RFFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF IYPF (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) I
(3)'LITERALY RATFS"(COl..o) ARF OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCrOUNTRIFS THFY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOJBTFOI. THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF RLITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY,
(f'11PURLIC EXPENDTTIIREF TN rrl1CATION'(C0LS.3,4 AND 9) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL ANn RECURRIENT FOPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PURlITC AGFENCIESI
(5)-ENRI1LLHENT RATI'lS"(COLS 7, If? AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR ANO MEAN THE PFRCFNTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APIPROPRIATE SCHnOOL.  PIJBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A AIDE MARGIN UF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTOIl'S OWING TO VAIIIATInN IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS), ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREGUENTLY ARE HIIGHER THAN THF NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN   SCHOOL. OVERAGED  STUDENTS WHOSE INCLU3ION IS  INDICATED   BY
FOOTNOTt 5 At 'J30 CAP; T'FI ATE THE RATIOS.



I             -    :    -    -
E
k! t- A-N T i C  GQE  N
MACAPA,,
BE
MANAi'
Ao un
A
87A
NV
H 4
ET RESINA
i                                                  A                                  YI jA1_
_j
A IAit,L;:Ju
CfORTO VELHO
14                                                                                           47                                                                  MACEIO-
RIO BRAN 0
\lA.AGOAS
ARACAJU
'WVADM
_'CLAABA                    BRASILIA-5-(
"lo
G(iANIA/Cana.
.l,e                                                           ME                                 BELC, HOR12ZONTE
C-po G,wd.                                                          'VtRIA
13.r,a
sa. J-6
'Ej __
d- C-r-7E
Leoqoldia p
3R,                                                                                                                           DE
JANEIRO
qA0-FAULa
b-
_A
?6oR(At46P0U$
E]OPORTOALMRt



