Report No. PID8336
Project Name                     Central African Republic-(*) ...
Fiscal Adjustment Credit
Region                           Africa Region
Sector                           Adjustment Operation
Project ID                       CFPE60092
Borrower                         Central African Republic (CAR)
Implementing Agency              Prime Minister's Office
Environment Category             C
Date this PID Prepared           November 1, 1999
Projected Board Date             December 16, 1999
1.      Background.   CAR has not lived up to the promise of its development
potential. Poor economic management and dismal governance prevented the
development of its rich endowment in natural resources, which includes
agriculture, diamond, gold and timber. GDP per capita fell on average by 1.9
percent annually from 1977 to 1987, and by 1.4 percent from 1988 to 1998. Per
capita income was estimated at just over US$300 in 1998. Poverty is
widespread, especially in the rural areas.
2.      CAR engaged in political liberalization in 1993, at a time of severe
economic crisis. Its currency, the CFA Franc, was overvalued. Government
employees and military personnel were not paid regularly, leading to strikes,
and export crops were not being normally marketed. The 1994 devaluation
triggered a strong, but short lived supply response, as fiscal mismanagement
and corruption continued unabated. The Government became unable to pay the
military, who rebelled repeatedly between May 1996 and January 1997, wrecking
the economy. To avoid an escalation in civil strife, the international
community provided peacekeeping forces and helped prepare and monitor the
legislative elections of November 1998 and the presidential elections of
September 1999. With the return of security to the capital city and adherence
of political forces to the Bangui Agreement sponsored by African leaders in
early 1997, the economy bounced back to an average growth rate of about 5
percent in 1997-98.
3.      The dialogue between CAR and the Bretton Woods Institutions entered a
new phase in 1998. The IMF took the lead in preparing a program of fiscal
adjustment and economic reform for the 1998-2000 period, which was supported
by a donors' meeting sponsored by the World Bank in June 1998. In July 1998,
the IMF Executive Directors approved a three-year ESAF in an amount equivalent
to US$66 million. In September 1998, a Paris Club meeting extended debt relief
on Naples terms. The government appointed in January 1999 took strong actions
to improve tax collection and implement structural reform, which allowed the
IMF to complete its first review of the ESAF and to release its second tranche
in June 1999.
4.      Project Scope and Objectives. The proposed credit aims at restoring the
basic functions of the State through fiscal consolidation, with an immediate
objective of timely payment of wages to government employees and the military.



This will improve the prospects of sustained civil peace and economic
recovery, which, in turn, will help restore the country's external credibility
and induce badly needed external assistance. Completion of the privatization
of four key government-owned banks and enterprises will help improve the
fiscal position, while allowing the Government to focus on core public sector
activities, and improving transparency.
5       Learning from past experience, the operation would focus on a limited
number of key measures. To mitigate capacity weakness, the operation would be
followed by a Policy Support Project, for the preparation of which an advance
under a PPF has been extended. The credit would be disbursed in two tranches
of US$ 9 million and US$ 5 million, respectively, and a floating tranche of
US$ 6 million linked to privatization. The first tranche would be made
available upon effectiveness. The second tranche would depend on the
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic framework and full implementation
of specific reform actions in the area of public finance. The disbursement of
the floating tranche would be contingent on the satisfactory implementation of
specific measures in the area of privatization.
6.      Environmental Aspects. In accordance with the Association's Operational
Directive on Environmental Assessment (O.D. 4.01, Annex E), the proposed
operation has been placed in Category C and does not require an environmental
assessment.
7.      Benefits.  The proposed operation would support implementation of the
economic program, which is a critical part of an international compact to help
restore peace and security in CAR, and help put the country back on the
development path. It would help: (i) restore basic functions of the State,
particularly the regular payment of salaries to civil servants and the
military, and improve the prospects of civil peace in a post-conflict context;
and (ii) service the debt. In turn, these are expected to restore external
credibility and foster private investment .
8.      Risks.  The most important risk is that of political instability.    Civil
peace and security remain fragile, even after the recent elections, especially
since the international peacekeeping force is scheduled to leave in mid-March
2000. This risk would be much greater without the budget support provided by
this operation. Second, the Government's limited commitment to fiscal
discipline and economic reform, improved governance, and its unproven ability
to build domestic consensus on reform. If the new government is not able to
deliver agreed actions, enjoy the support of the President and the
legislature, and mobilize the population behind the program, economic reform
will stall. Third, the risk of insufficient external support. CAR will need
additional assistance in the short-term, notably to fund the demobilization
and restructuring of the military, and in the medium-term, to develop human
and physical infrastructure. Close donor coordination is central to re-
establishing the basic conditions for economic and social development in CAR.
And fourth, the limited capacity for economic management and implementation of
reform, a constant problem under previous adjustment operations. The operation
seeks to mitigate this risk by concentrating on a limited number of actions,
and ensuring that the most difficult ones are taken up-front. Further support
will be provided under the envisaged Policy Support Project.
Contact Points:
-2-



The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H. Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Slaheddine Khenissi
Telephone: (202) 458-9293
Fax:        (202) 473-8466
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 5, 1999.
- 3 -



