Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7348-CA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TIHE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 14.4 MILLION
(US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FORA
FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT
November 24, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 24, 1999)
Currency Unit      =      CFA franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00                  CFAF 631.00
SDR 1.00           =      US$ 1.38
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB           African Development Bank
BICA           Banque Internationale pour la Centrafrique (Commercial bank)
BPMC           Banque Populaire Maroc-Centrafrique (Commercial bank)
CAR            Central African Republic
CEMAC          Communaute Econornique et Monetaire de I'Afrique Centrale
COBAC          Regional Banking Supervision Agency
ENERCA         Power Utility Company
ESAF           Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU             European Union
FCC            Fiscal Consolidation Credit
ILO            International Labor Office
MINURCA        UN Peacekeeping force
MISAB          Inter-African Peacekeeping Force
NGO            Non-government Organization
OCSS           Social Security Office
OHADA          Organization for Harmonization of Business Law in Africa
ONIFOP         Vocational Training Institute
ONMO           National Labor Office
PETROCA        Company of Petroleum distribution
PFP            Policy Framework Paper
PNDS           National Health Development
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
SAC            Structural Adjustment Credit
SAUR Afrique  Private Water Company
SNE            Water Utility
SOCATEL        State-owned Telecommunication Company
SOCOCA         Parastatal monopoly in the cotton sector
TELECEL        Cellular Phone Operator
UBAC           Union Bancaire de I'Afrique Centrale (Commercial bank)
Vice President           Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director                 Serge Michailof
Sector Manager           Luca Barbone
Task Team Leader         Slaheddine Khenissi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT
Table of Content
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUIMMARY ......................................................i
L     BACKGROUND .....................................................1
II.   THE ECONOMIC REFORM  PROGRAM ......................................................3
A.    Economic and Social Development Strategy ....................................................3
B.    The reform program  supported by the operation .....................             ...............................4
IIL   THE PROPOSED CREDIT .....................................................                                         10
A.    The Credit and its rationale .........................           .............. 10
B.    Disbursement procedures, implementation and supervision ................................................... 12
C.    Benefits and risks ................................................... 13
IV.  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS ..................................................... 13
V.    COLLABORATION WITH  THE IM     AND OTHER DONORS ............................................... 14
VI.  RECOMMENDATION ..................................................... 14
Annexes
Annex A: Letter of Development Policy ........................................... 15
Annex B: Program  Matrix Policy ........................................... 24
Annex C: Transitional Support Strategy Note ..............                             ............................. 26
Annex D: Central African Republic at a glance ................                            ........................... 36
Annex E: Key Economic Indicators ........................................... 38
Annex F: Status of Bank Group Operations ........................................... 41
Annex G: Bank Group Program  Summary, FYI 999-2001  ........................................... 42
Annex H: Timetable of Key Processing Events ...................                               ........................ 43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:      Central African Republic
Amount:        IDA Credit SDR 14.4 million, US$20 million equivalent
Terms:         Standard IDA terms with 40 years' maturity
Progrr
Description:   The program supported by the proposed credit consists of measures to
consolidate public finance and to accelerate privatization of key public
enterprises, in a post-conflict context.
Benefits:      The proposed operation would help the State: (i) carry out its basic
fuinctions, particularly through the regular payment of salaries to civil
servants and the military, and enhance the prospects for civil peace in
a still fragile post-conflict context; and (ii) service the debt. In turn,
these are expected to improve external credibility, induce badly needed
external assistance, foster private investment, and ultimately put the
country back on the development path.
Risks:         Political instability. Civil peace and security remain fragile, especially
since the international peacekeeping force is scheduled to leave in
mid-March 2000. This risk would be much greater without the budget
support provided by this operation and the Fund ESAF.
Resistance to change and opposition from vested interests, including in
revenue agencies. This risk has been lowered recently, with the prior
actions to the credit taken by the new Government, notably the
lowering of cotton prices. By providing a credible signal of sustained
support from IDA to the reformers in the country, the credit reduces
the risk of backtracking.
Risk of limited implementation capacity is mitigated by concentrating
on a limited number of actions, and ensuring that the hardest ones are
taken up-front. Moreover, technical assistance under the envisaged
Policy Support Project will help in implementing the reform program.
Insufficient external support. CAR will need additional assistance to
demobilize and restructure the military, and to develop human and



ii
physical infrastructure. Close donor coordination is needed to re-
establish the basic conditions for economic and social development.
Staff Appraisal
Report:        None required
Estimated
Disbursements: First Tranche i(SDR 6.5 rnillion), January 10, 2000
Second Tranche (SDR 3.6 million), May 15, 2000
Floating Tranche (SDR 4.3 million), August 15, 2000



REPORT AND RECOMNMIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT
OF SDR 14.4 MILLION (US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation for a Fiscal
Consolidation Credit (FCC) to the Central African Republic (CAR) for SDR 14.4 million,
the equivalent of US$20 million. The credit would be on standard IDA tenns, with a
maturity of 40 years, and would be disbursed in three tranches, including a floating
tranche.
2.    The credit aims at fiscal consolidation to help the State carry out its basic
finctions in a post-conflict context, with an immediate objective of timely payment of
wages to government employees and the military. This should enhance the prospects for
sustained civil peace and economic recovery, and lay the foundations for a poverty
alleviation strategy. Privatization of four key banks and enterprises should help improve
the fiscal position, through lower losses and subsidies, while enhancing transparency and
efficiency. Creating the conditions for civil peace and sustainable development is the
Government's main development objective, articulated in the May 1998 Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) and supported by an IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) approved in July 1998. The credit would contribute to the fiscal
consolidation sought under the IMF supported program.
1.       BACKGROUND
3.    CAR has not lived up to the promise of its development potential.  Poor
macroeconomic management and dismal governance prevented the development of its
rich and diverse endowment in natural resources, which includes agriculture, diamond,
gold and timber. Per capita income fell on average by 1.9 percent annually from 1977 to
1987, and by 1.4 percent from 1988 to 1998, to slightly above US$300.
4.    Poverty is pervasive, and affects in particular the rural population, representing
about two-thirds of the country's 3.5 million people. Life expectancy is a low 49 years.
Infant mortality is high at about 100 per thousand. HIV/AIDS prevalence is estimated at
11 percent, and may be higher. Illiteracy is widespread (about 40 percent), while gross
school enrollment is low (about 58 percent, 46 percent for females). Only 18 percent of
the population have access to safe water.
5.    CAR engaged in political liberalization in the early 1990s, at a time of severe
economic crisis and social unrest. Its currency, the CFA Franc, was overvalued, and
export crops were not being normally marketed. Government employees and military
personnel were not paid regularly, leading to strikes. An economic program supported by



2
the Third Structural Adjustment Credit, launched in 1990 to pursue reform in the public
administration, parastatals and the agricultural sector was failing due to political unrest.
6.    Presidential elections in 1993 restored political stability, but for a while only. The
1994 devaluation triggered a strong supply response (over 6 percent real GDP growth in
1994 and 1995), which, however, was short-lived, as reforms needed to accompany the
devaluation were not implemented. In particular, fiscal mismanagement and corruption
continued unabated. The Government became unable to pay the military, who rebelled
repeatedly between May 1996 and January 1997, wrecking the economy. Most factories
in Bangui were destroyed; externally-financed projects were halted; and private sector
activities sharply declined. Between 1995 and 1996, the ratio of Government revenue to
GDP dropped from 9.2 percent to 6.1 percent, while the ratio of investment to GDP fell
from 14 percent to 3 percent, and the overall balance of payments remained in deficit (1
and 2 percent of GDP). The country could no longer service its debt, including to IDA,
and CAR was declared in non accrual status in April 1997.
7.    The international commumity intervened to avoid an escalation in civil strife.
First, an inter-African peacekeeping force (MISAB) and, since April 1998, a UN
peacekeeping force (MINURCA) helped restore security in the capital city and gradually
improved security in the rest of the country. With the return of security and adherence of
political forces to the Bangui Agreement sponsored by African leaders in early 1997,
economic growth bounced back to an average of over 5 percent in 1997-98, and
investment surged to 9 percent of' GDP in 1997 and about 13 percent in 1998.
8.    The dialogue between CAR and the Bretton Woods Institutions entered a new
phase in 1998. The IMF took the lead in preparing a three-year program of financial
consolidation and structural refoirm. A PFP for the 1998-2000 period was agreed in May
1998 and was supported by a donors' meeting sponsored by the World Bank a month
later. In July 1998, the IMF approved a three-year ESAF for an amount equivalent to
US$66 million, and debt relief on Naples terms was extended by the Paris Club in
September 1998.
9.    Disbursement of the first ESAF tranche allowed CAR to settle IDA arrears. CAR
was expected to rapidly implement certain measures, which would have allowed IDA to
prepare an adjustment operation in 1998. This, in turn, would have paved the way for the
restoration of normal relations with the African Development Bank (AfDB).  In
hindsight, however, that expectation was overoptimistic. With the campaign for the
legislative elections going on, and a lame-duck government, CAR did not meet the
program targets for end-1998. Revenue fell short of projections, new wage arrears
accumulated, and key reforns - especially the privatization of petroleum distribution -
was delayed. The IMN could not complete its review of the first year of the ESAF, and
IDA could not advance the preparation of the adjustment operation.
10.   Progress was made on the political front, however, as CAR's external partners
helped prepare and monitor the legislative elections of November 1998. Political forces
rallied behind the President won an absolute majority, albeit with a razor-thin edge. After
initially contesting the outcome, the opposition joined the Parliament in March 1999. A



3
new Government led by Mr. Dologuele, a former senior staff from the regional central
bank was formed in January 1999.
11.   The new Government took strong measures to improve tax collection and
accelerate structural reforms. Fiscal targets were met and there was good progress in the
area of privatization.  Privatization of petroleum  import and distribution gained
momentum, as an agreement with three private investors was reached, and progress was
made towards privatizing the management of ENERCA, the power company. One major
commercial bank was privatized, and the privatization of another bank was accelerated.
This progress allowed the IMF to complete its first review of the ESAF and to release its
second tranche on June 22, 1999. Before that, in May 1999, IDA extended an advance
under the Project Preparation Facility to prepare the proposed Policy Support Project
(FY2000), designed to help CAR implement its reform program.
12.   Parliamentarian elections were followed by Presidential elections in September
1999, which resulted in President Patasse being reelected at the first round, winning more
than 51 percent of the vote. A new Government has been appointed under the direction
of incumbent reformist Prime Minister Dologu6le, who has opened the cabinet to figures
from the opposition and civil society, while keeping in it the technocrats in charge of
implementing the reform program.
13.   Against this background, the peace keeping force (MINURCA) is scheduled to
complete its withdrawal from CAR by March 2000. A longer time schedule may be
necessary, however, given the delays incurred in the implementation of the provisions of
the Bangui Accords concerning the demobilization and restructuring of the armed forces
in a pre-election context. This is a highly politically sensitive issue, which is, however,
crucial for future stability.
II.    THE ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
A. Economic and Social Development Strategy
14    The Government's medium term objectives consist of arresting and reversing the
degradation in the country's human and physical infrastructure, and developing its
considerable natural potential. But its immediate priority is fiscal consolidation to help it
carry out its basic functions, notably the preservation of civil peace. This requires
increasing revenue and improving spending management. Fiscal consolidation will also
be strengthened by the privatization of large public enterprises, which will lower quasi-
fiscal losses and subsidies, improve transparency, and enable the Government to focus on
its basic functions. A healthier fiscal position will allow the regular payment of wages,
including to the military, and the servicing of the debt. In turn, these would improve the
prospects of improved external credibility, higher external assistance, economic recovery
and poverty reduction.
15.  In tandem with the public finance objectives, CAR intends to encourage private
investment as the engine of economic growth. This requires the progressive dismantling



4
of a patrimonial economic system. The authorities have already privatized/liquidated
most public enterprises and implemented the regional program to enhance competition.
They have also completed the privatization of two banks and the restructuring of the third
one. Once the fiscal program is firmly on track and relations with external partners are
back to normal, the priority wi[ll be to increase public spending on human capital and
essential infrastructure.
16.  Improved governance is central to CAR's development strategy. Indeed, poor
governance is at the core of the country's problems and is largely to blame for the
prolonged political and economic crisis. The authorities intend to improve transparency
and accountability of public sector management, notably by eliminating off-budget
spending, tightening budget controls, reviewing tax exemptions, privatizing public
enterprises and setting appropriate penalties for abuse and corruption.
17.   The Government is seeking to reverse the deterioration of social indicators by
increasing spending for social sectors, notably education and health. In 1998, about 75
percent of the budget allocations for goods and services in education and health was
effectively disbursed, which was higher than the disbursement rate of 50 percent in 1997,
and also higher than the disbursement rate of 67 percent for the other sectors. The 1999
budget provides for an 18.6 percent increase in spending on goods and services for
education, and an 15 percent increase for health. An Education Development Plan is
being finalized, and a new National Health Plan is being prepared, based on the
evaluation of the previous plan for 1996-98. Health priorities include the need to
improve access to safe water and to start tackling the AIDS/HIV problem. The
Government also seeks to encourage the participation of communities and NGOs in the
delivery of public services; and to promote, whenever feasible, labor-intensive techniques
in the execution of public investment projects.
B. The reform program supported by the operation
18.   The proposed operation seeks to consolidate political stabilization and civil peace
through fiscal adjustment, in a still fragile post-conflict context. The support of the
Bretton Woods Institutions is critical to give internal peace a chance and improve the
likelihood of economic recovery and poverty reduction.
19.   Taking account of past experience with adjustment in CAR, and the fragility of
local institutions, the policy content of the operation is relatively modest and sharply
focused. The comprehensive policy agenda of the PFP for 1998-2000 notwithstanding,
the credit focuses on fiscal consolidation to help the State carry out its basic functions,
notably law and order, in a post-conflict context. The public finance agenda of the credit
is complemented by the privatization of two banks (BICA and UBAC) and two major
public enterprises (PETROCA and ENERCA), which also aims at reducing quasi-fiscal
losses and subsidies, while improving transparency and economic efficiency. The litmus
test for fiscal discipline is the regular payment of salaries, and improved revenue
collection. Disbursements under the proposed credit would be contingent on strong up-
front actions, demonstrating the Government's commitment to reform.



5
20.   Public financial management. The program supported by the credit aims at fiscal
consolidation, which is essential for basic State functions. This, in turn, would improve
the prospects for sustained civil peace, external credibility and economic recovery. Fiscal
consolidation notably requires: (i) improved revenue mobilization; (ii) more efficient and
more transparent spending management; including the regular payment of wages (iii) and
gradual settlement of domestic and external arrears. Strong measures were taken in the
first half of 1999, leading to a significant improvement in macroeconomic performance.
21.   To increase revenue, the Government will (i) centralize the collection of all tax
and non tax revenue under the sole authority of the Ministry of Finance and Budget; (ii)
improve the administration and collection of taxes and customs duties; and (iii) gradually
reform the tax system. These objectives are congruent with the regional initiatives within
CEMAC (Communaute Economique et Monetaire de l'Afrique Centrale), aiming at
broadening the tax base and consolidating/simplifying the tax system to make it more
equitable, more transparent and easier to administer. Reforms include the replacement in
2000 of the turnover tax with a value added tax at a single rate, the introduction of a
single tax for small businesses (impot synthitique) and the reduction in the number of
income tax brackets.
22.   Finally, special tax arrangements in the main exports sectors (timber, cotton,
diamonds and coffee) will be reviewed to ensure both international competitiveness and
appropriate level of revenue. In the past, special tax arrangements have been too liberally
granted, sometimes illegally. Over the past two years, the Government has refrained
from granting special tax exemptions. It has also started analyzing past agreements, with
a view to denouncing those which are way off the mark. As a condition for second
tranche release, the Government agreed to submit to IDA an inventory of tax
exemptions granted to mining and logging operations from January 1, 1995 to end-1998,
and reiterated its commitment to refrain from granting new special tax exemptions.
23.   The Government has already taken a number of measures to improve
transparency and tighten budget control. Off-budget spending has been curtailed in 1998
and should be eliminated by the end of the program supported by the IMF. Unlawful
bank accounts of ministries have been closed in April 1998. Any deviation from the
approved budget in the course of the year now needs to be approved by the National
Assembly. The monitoring of budget execution has improved through the preparation of
monthly reports on tax and non tax revenue; and on expenditure by ministries and
economic categories. The Treasury has started preparing a monthly and a quarterly cash-
flow management plan to keep spending in line with the approved budget and available
resources.
24.   Further improvements include the preparation of quarterly and annual reports on
budget execution, and the strengthening of programming, implementation and monitoring
of public spending. Given severe resources constraints, the Government will strictly
observe spending priorities. The three-year rolling public investment program will be
updated and its management strengthened: its impact on current spending will be better
assessed, and the recurrent cost implications of new projects will be taken into account
when preparing the investment program.



6
25.   Wages absorb a high share of budgetary resources (47 percent in 1998), crowding
out spending on essential goods and services. The Parliament has already adopted a Civil
Service Law introducing merit-based promotion rules. The payroll will be carefully
checked to eliminate remaining "ghost workers". These measures should help the
Government keep the wage bill under control. As a condition for second tranche
release, the Government agreed to avoid any additional wage arrears during the 12
month-period preceding April 1, 2000.
26.   To restore its credibility and bolster economic activity, the Government intends to
gradually eliminate payment arrears to domestic suppliers and civil servants, in a
transparent and equitable way, on the basis of an audit of internal debt as of end- 1997.
The authorities also intend to settle external payments arrears, but domestic resource
constraints make this objective largely dependent on additional assistance from donors
and creditors, including in the form of debt relief. As mentioned before, the Paris Club
extended in September 1998 debt relief on Naples terms.
27.   Privatization and econornic liberalization. Starting in 1998, the Government re-
energized its privatization program and focused it on two large commercial banks,
PETROCA, the petroleum impcrts and distribution company, and ENERCA, the power
utility. The privatization program aims at reducing quasi-fiscal losses and subsidies,
while improving transparency and economic efficiency. In addition to disengaging itself
from existing parastatals, the Government is committed not to create any new public
enterprise, including financial institutions, nor to take new capital participation in
existing enterprises.
28.   CAR has made good progress towards the restructuring and privatization of the
banking sector. Four banks were closed. Of the three remaining commercial banks, two
have been privatized (Banque Internationale pour la Centrafrique, BICA and Union
Bancaire de l'Afrique Centrale, UBAC). The third bank (Banque Populaire Maroco-
Centrafricaine, BPMC) has been recapitalized by its shareholders to meet new capital
adequacy requirements. The authorities will continue to cooperate with the regional
supervision agency (COBAC) to ensure that banks abide strictly by prudential rules and
constitute adequate provisions to cover non-performing loans.
29.   The privatization of PEIROCA has been initiated under SAC III, but little
progress was made, as the Government was reluctant to lose its major source of extra-
budgetary revenue. The key objective of the privatization of PETROCA is to increase
revenue in a transparent manner. Recently, key steps have been taken, including
Parliament approval of the liquidation of PETROCA and the settlement of the rights of
employees affected by its liquidation. Following the liquidation of PETROCA, the
Government has entrusted ENERCA with the task of importing petroleum products, to
avoid disrupting the highly seasonal supply of these products via the Ubangui river. An
agreement has been finalized between the Government and three multinational petroleum
companies. The agreement grants exclusivity rights to the private investors for a period
of five years, after which the sector would be opened to competition. The incorporation
of the company, which will take over import and distribution of petroleum products
(SOGAL), is a condition for second tranche release.



7
30.   The Government is taking steps to privatize the management of ENERCA, the
power utility, including the drafting of a strategy for the power sector and an electricity
code. A consultant has been selected to help prepare the bidding documents for the lease
of ENERCA. Approval by the Government of the strategy for the electricity sector,
submission of the new electricity code to Parliament, and bringing ENERCA to the point
of lease are conditions for the release of the floating tranche.
31. The Government has also tried to sell its shares in the telecommunications
company (SOCATEL), but these efforts have not been successful so far.  The
Government is pursuing the rehabilitation of the commercial and technical management
of SOCATEL to improve its salability. It has also opened the sector to competition, by
granting an operating license to a cellular phone operator (TELECEL).
32. In the water sector, the management of production facilities and commercial
activities has been privatized since 1991. A private operator (SAUR Afrique) has
managed an indirect lease-farming contract with SNE, a national holding company
created to that effect. The Government has recently taken steps to reduce the cost of this
management contract by liquidating SNE and negotiating a new direct lease-farming
contract with SAUR Afrique. The French cooperation will provide technical assistance
to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Public Works to manage the new contract.
33. The revision of the legal and regulatory framework has been hampered by the
Government's weak capacity, and lack of technical assistance. With the exception of the
electricity code (prepared with IDA assistance), and the legal framework in the forestry
sectors (being updated with French assistance), CAR has been unable to advance the
updating of the legal framework in important economic sectors, including mining and
telecommunications. A draft mining code prepared by the authorities was communicated
to IDA, but it needs considerable more work before it can be finalized. The Government
agrees that the efficient and transparent functioning of the water, electricity and
telecommunications sectors requires an adequate regulatory framework and an
autonomous regulatory body to manage them. Accordingly, the preparation of adequate
regulatory frameworks for the water and telecommunications sectors, as well as the
establishment of an autonomous body to regulate and supervise those sectors are
conditions for floating tranche release.
34.   The Government has merged the two public agencies responsible for employment
promotion (ONMO) and vocational training (ONIFOP), to improve efficiency and reduce
costs. Furthermore, with assistance from the International Labor Office, the Government
will prepare an action plan to restore the viability of the social security office (OCSS),
which has been suffering from the siphoning of its reserves by Government, high
operating costs, poor management and insufficient contributions.
35.   Business environment.  The Government intends to improve the business
environment. Legislation has been updated in the context of the Organization for
Harmonization of Business Law in Africa (OHADA). The authorities have prepared a
new draft Labor Code to foster labor market flexibility, which is expected to be submitted
to the Parliament before the end of 1999. The Govermment is committed to continue its
liberal price policy, and gradually eliminate remaining price controls and monopolies.



8
An Investment Charter simplifying admninistrative formnalities for private investors, while
avoiding excessive tax concessions, will be introduced in accordance with the General
Tax Code and the Customs Code.
36.   The Government intends to encourage the development of mineral resources, so
far insufficiently exploited. It will formulate a mining sector strategy in conjunction with
the revision of the Mining Code. In parallel, the Government will seek to increase
transparency and reduce fraud in mnineral exploitation through appropriate changes in the
tax regime and in its administration. It will ensure that mining activity is subject to the
provisions of General Tax Code and Customs Code and that its taxation is consistent with
the new Investmnent Charter.
37.   Given the landlocked situation of CAR, its vast size and the dispersion of
economic activities, good roads are essential. Therefore, in collaboration with donors,
the authorities will set up and implement a program of road rehabilitation and
maintenance to ensure the efficient operation of the essential links between population
and production centers, as well as of the main export and transit routes. They will also
redefine the role and structure of the Road Fund and take appropriate measures to
improve its operations on the basis of a recently completed financial and organizational
audit undertaken with the support of the European Union (EU).
38.   The authorities have adopted the principle of introducing road user fee and have
finalized the practical modalities of its implementation, in order to ensure the adequate
financing of the Road Fund. Resources to finance road maintenance were collected by
PETROCA, but there has been some delay recently in the transfer of those resources to
the Road Fund. Therefore, the full payment by PETROCA of its obligations to the Road
Fund for 1999 is a condition for second tranche release. The Govemment will also
tighten controls of financial management of the Road Fund and improve its
administration. The EU expects to implement an Action Plan based on the above
mentioned audit, starting in year 2000. In addition, the Government intends to develop
and implement a general framnework for shifting an increasing share of general road
maintenance and rural road construction to local communities and private companies.
39.   Cotton sector. The cotton sector is in a difficult situation, and its future is at risk,
with potential major consequences on poverty, as cotton is the main (possibly, the only)
cash crop for almost 200,000 rural families (about one-third of the population). The
sector is managed by a joint venture, SOCOCA, which has a monopoly on internal and
external marketing of cotton. It faces structural problems due to diseconomies of scale,
poor agricultural practices and excessive operating costs of SOCOCA. A Round Table in
April 1999 reviewed the scope fo:r cost savings and structural reform in the sector. The
Government has already decided to make the price fixing process more flexible: Starting
in 2000/2001, a minimum producer price will be announced before the harvest, that may
or may not be supplemented by a bonus at the end of the campaign, depending on its
results. As mentioned in the Transitional Strategy note (para. 23), IDA lending beyond
this credit and the Policy Support Project would require satisfactory progress in
implementing the needed structural reforms in the cotton sector.



9
40.   More immediately, it is the financial position of SOCOCA which is a cause of
concern. It has been exacerbated by the Government decision in 1998, just before
legislative elections, to raise producer prices by 20 FCFA/Kg (to 170 FCFA/Kg), while
world prices embarked on a steep decline (reaching a 14-year low in September 1999).
The deficit of SOCOCA was estimated at about FCFA 1.2 billion in 1998/99, and is
projected to be even higher in 1999/2000. The Government has been pursuing with
SOCOCA and external partners a program to close the financing gap through tax
exemptions, elimination of subsidies for inputs, reduction of operating costs, and direct
budget subsidies. For the 1999/2000 campaign, the Government has already reduced
producer prices by 20 FCFA/Kg, and closed the Grimari ginning plant. It has also agreed
that the deficit-reduction prograrn would not entail any recourse to medium-term bank
credit (directly or through the Central Bank).
41.  Improving the delivery of social services. CAR's social indicators are among the
worst in the world. Access to, and quality of, basic education and health has further
deteriorated since 1996. The capacity of the population to finance essential social
services has been severely curtailed by economic decline. The deterioration of social
indicators is affecting the great majority of the population, particularly the rural poor. It
is a major constraint to the country's economic and social development.
42.   Under the 1998-2000 program, the Government's strategy is to improve the
volume and quality of public spending on social services; and to encourage the
participation of beneficiaries, local communities, NGOs and the private sector to the
financing and management of social services delivery. The immediate priority is to
increase budget allocations to social sectors and disburse them as programmed. As
mentioned before, budget allocations for goods and services in the education and health
sectors have been significantly increased in the 1999 budget.
43.   CAR has enacted a law outlining education policies, and the Government is
finalizing a National Education Development Plan based on the recommendations of the
1994 National Conference on Education. This plan will focus on quality and equity of
education, while promoting decentralization, and the participation of beneficiaries, the
private sector, local communities, and NGOs to the financing and management of
education. Within the overall education strategy, the priority is to raise primary school
enrollment rate in general, and of girls in particular. To improve the quality of education,
the Government intends to strengthen teachers' training and re-deploy those working in
central administration to understaffed schools; improve the supply of text books and
school supplies; rehabilitate schools; and adapt curricula to the interest and needs of the
population.
44.  In accordance with the National Health Development Plan, priorities include the
increase in the access to, and quality of, health services, especially primary care for
mothers and infants and rural population; and the improved provision of essential generic
medicines throughout the country. The functioning of the Ministry of Health will be
strengthened by streamlining the management of health services at all levels through
appropriate training. Decision making will be decentralized, including through the
participation of communities in planning, managing and financing of health programs.



10
Health institutions will be given greater autonomy and responsibility for their own
operations and budget.
45.   The authorities' intentions and efforts to reverse the deterioration in the social
indicators will be backed by reviews of public expenditure in the education and health
sectors that will be carried out under the envisaged Policy Support Project. These
reviews are expected to map out sectoral strategies to improve the volume, cost
effectiveness and equity of spending, and to start tackling the AIDS/HIV problem in
CAR.
II.     THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.  The Credit and its rationale
46. CAR is attempting to overcome the legacy of two decades of poor economic
management and governance, while restoring civil peace and a business environment
conducive to development.  Past reform attempts failed because of Government's
reluctance to take needed actions. The civil unrest which has affected CAR in recent
years is due to the failure of successive governments to address the root causes of the
economic and social decline. Only external intervention has prevented the country from
sinking deeper into chaos.
47. Recently, a growing consensus appears to have emerged across the political
spectrum that fiscal consolidation, economic reform and civil peace are all needed to put
CAR back on the development path, and that they must go hand-in-hand. The new
legislature which took office in early 1999 has been vocal about the need for economic
reform, and has pressured the Government to act. Mr. Dologudle, who was appointed
Prime Minister in January 1999 and has been reconfirmed following the Presidential
elections of October 1999, has an acute understanding of the causes of CAR's decline,
and has the will to address them. It is expected that he will also have the political
authority to implement his program, as shown by difficult measures taken recently,
including the lowering of cotton producer prices, despite electoral promises to the
contrary. CAR may hence have now a real opportunity to change.
48.  The rationale of the proposed operation is, in parallel with the ESAF program, to
support the new Governnent's commitment to fiscal discipline and economic reformn.
Implementation of the program supported by the credit would help improve the prospects
of: sustained civil peace, external credibility and the likelihood of additional development
assistance for economic recovery and poverty alleviation. While the operation faces
significant risks (see paras. 59 and 60 below), the alternative, i.e., the no credit situation,
would be disastrous. In particular, the ESAF program would run astray for lack of
adequate funding, and civil peace and econornic recovery would be seriously jeopardized.
The international community might be called up again to help CAR restore internal
peace.



11
49.   Lessons learned from previous adjustment operations. During the period 1986-
90, CAR's economic reform program was supported by three SAC operations and a
Cotton Sector Adjustment Credit. The first SAC, approved in 1986, helped liberalize the
agricultural sector and initiate the restructuring of public enterprises. It was rated
unsatisfactory, however, because macroeconomic performance fell far short of
expectations. The Cotton Sector Adjustment Credit was approved in 1987, and led to a
significant reduction in production and marketing costs. SAC II, approved in 1988, was
partially implemented. The fiscal deficit remained well above targets, and the expected
supply response did not materialize, largely due to the overvaluation of the currency.
SAC III, approved in 1990, was derailed a few months later by political unrest. Public
finances deteriorated, making implementation of the initial programn impossible. A fourth
SAC was envisaged in 1995, but its preparation was halted by the mutinies of 1996-97.
50.   Past policy-based operations were too ambitious, overestimated the Government's
commitment to reform and its implementation capacity. Learning from past experience,
this operation focuses on a limited number of measures aimed at fiscal consolidation,
factors in capacity constraints, and relies on critical up-front actions demonstrating
commitment to reform.
51.   Link to CAS. The last Bank Country Strategy Paper for CAR dates back to
December 11, 1992.  Its objectives were to promote private sector development,
streamline the role of the State and support the most vulnerable population groups. But
weak political commitment, poor governance, lack of implementation capacity, economic
mismanagement and political unrest prevented the country from progressing towards
those objectives. In 1995, a new CAS was being prepared, together with an adjustment
operation, but was not finalized as the political situation deteriorated following the
mutinies in 1996/97.
52.   A Transitional Support Strategy note is being presented to the Board as an annex
to this report (Annex C). The note recommends a two-phase approach, with the first one
centered on fiscal consolidation, improving governance and laying the foundations for a
poverty alleviation program. The first phase would last for about 18 months, and include
the proposed credit and a companion Policy Support Project. Limited administrative
budget resources available would be allocated to intensive supervision of both operations.
The Bank would work closely with the European Union, which is expected to take the
lead in public expenditure reviews. Successful implementation of this operation would
allow considering new investment operations in the future and preparing a new CAS in
FY01.
53. Poverty impact. The proposed operation has a narrow focus on fiscal consolidation
and is not designed as such to make a contribution to poverty alleviation. As indicated in
the Transitional Support Strategy note, phase one of the country strategy will lay the
foundations for a poverty alleviation program. Fiscal consolidation is a prerequisite for
launching such a program.
54.   Credit arnount. The credit in an amount of SDR 14.4 mnillion would be disbursed
in two tranches of US$9 million and US$5 million, respectively, and a floating tranche of
US$6 million.  The first tranche would be made available upon effectiveness.



12
Disbursement of the second tranche is contingent on the maintenance of an appropriate
macroeconomic framework and the implementation of specific measures in the area of
public finance. Disbursement of the floating tranche is contingent on the implementation
of specific measures in the area of privatization.
B.  Disbursement procedures, implementation and supervision
55. The three-tranche approach ensures that key measures demonstrating government
commitment to reformn are taken up-front. Conditions for the release of the second and
the floating tranches are as follows:
Conditions for second tranche release:
i.    No accumulation of additional salary arrears during the period between March 31,
1999, and March 31, 2000 (para. 25);
ii.   Submission to IDA of an inventory of special tax exemptions granted to mining
and logging operations from January 1, 1995, to December 31, 1998, and
refraining from granting new special tax exemption from the effective date (para.
22);
iii.   Settlement of the current obligations of PETROCA due in 1999 to the Road Fund
(para. 38); and
iv.   Incorporation of SOGAL (para. 29).
Conditions for floating tranche release:
i.    Approval by the Government of the strategy for the electricity sector, submission
of the revised electricity Code to Parliament, and bringing ENERCA to the point
of lease (para. 30);
ii.   Preparation of a regulatory framework for the water and telecommunications
sectors, and creation of an autonomous regulatory body for the water, electricity
and telecommunications sectors (para. 33).
56. Disbursements would follow the Bank's simplified procedures applicable to all
adjustment operations. They would not be linked to specific purchases and would not
have procurement requirements. Proceeds of the credit would be deposited by IDA in a
Central Bank account at the request of the borrower. IDA may request an audit at any
time.
57. The adjustment program is supervised by the Inter-ministerial Committee for the
Adjustment Program chaired by the Prime Minister (who is also Minister of Finance, and
Minister of Planning), and managed by a Technical Committee for the Adjustment
Program, in which all ministries concerned with the implementation of the program are



13
represented. A monitoring unit based in the Ministry of Finance assumes the secretariat
of the Technical Committee. It issues a monthly report on the execution of the fiscal
program and a quarterly report on the implementation of structural reform. IDA
supervision missions will monitor program implementation.
C. Benefits and risks
58. Benefits. Through fiscal consolidation, the proposed operation would help the
State: (i) carry out its basic functions, particularly through the regular payment of salaries
to civil servants and the military, and enhance the prospects for civil peace in a post-
conflict context; and (ii) service the debt. In turn, these are expected to improve external
credibility, induce badly needed external assistance, foster private investment, and
ultimately put the country back on the development path.
59. Risks. The operation faces several risks, the most important being that of political
instability. Civil peace and security remain fragile, even after the recent elections,
especially since the international peacekeeping force is scheduled to leave in mid-March
2000. As mentioned above, this risk would be much greater without the budget support
provided by this operation and the Fund ESAF. Resistance to change and opposition
from powerful vested interests in the Presidency and in revenue mobilization agencies
may derail the reform program. This risk has been significantly lowered recently,
however, with the dismissal of a key adviser to the President for his involvement in a
scandal related to the importation of petroleum products free of custom duties. Also, the
new Government appointed following presidential elections has continued the reform
effort and finalized difficult prior actions to the proposed credit, notably the lowering of
cotton prices. By providing a credible signal of sustained support from IDA, the proposed
multi-tranche operation reduces the risk of backtracking.
60. An additional risk is the limited government implementation capacity, a constant
problem under previous adjustment operations. This operation seeks to mitigate this risk
by concentrating on a limited number of actions, and ensuring that the hardest ones are
taken up-front. Further mnitigation of this risk is expected from the Policy Support
Project, which is being designed to help key government agencies implement the reform
program. The last risk is that of insufficient external support. CAR will need additional
assistance to demobilize and restructure the military, and to develop human and physical
infrastructure. Close donor coordination is central to re-establishing the basic conditions
for economic and social development in CAR.
IV.      BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
61.  IDA has lent the equivalent of US$410 million to CAR since 1969, of which a
small amount of US$7.53 million remain undisbursed.  In recent years, project
implementation has suffered from civil unrest, financial irregularities and the suspension
of disbursements in April 1997.  Though suspension was lifted in April 1998,
government agreed to close the three poorly performing investment projects in the
portfolio, cancel remaining balances (US$21.8 million since December 1998), and



14
concentrate its limited resources on economic stabilization. It is expected that this
process will be completed for the third and last active project by end November 1999.
V.    COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
62.  IDA staff has closely worked with IMF in policy discussions with the government
during joint missions, including during preparation of the ESAF and its supervision.
Major donors include the African Development bank (AfDB), France, the European
Union, Japan, Germany, and the UN. Most donors have downsized their programs since
the outbreak of civil unrest, and some have discontinued their assistance altogether, due
to the accumulation of arrears. Despite the decline in donors' activities, minimum aid
coordination has been maintained, especially in the rural sector. In the short-term, the
European Union is expected to take the lead in preparing annual public expenditure
reviews. Financing of demobilization was discussed at a donors' conference in June
1999.
VI.      RECOMMENDATION
63.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C
November 24, 1999
Attachments



15                          ANNEX A
Page 1 of 9
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Ministry of Economy, Finance,                  Bangui, November 23, 1999
Planning and International Cooperation
Prime Minister Cabinet
The Prime Minister
to
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President of the World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. President,
On behalf of the Government of the Central African Republic, I have the honor of
addressing to you this Letter of Development Policy for the Fiscal Consolidation Credit.
This Letter of Development Policy confirms the commitments of the Government
under the Fiscal Consolidation, in particular those pertaining to the immediate priorities
in the areas of public finance and privatization, which, in the CAR context, also aims at
improving the fiscal position, through lower losses and subsidies to parastatals.
Following successful and peaceful parliamentarian and presidential elections, fiscal
consolidation will allow the Government to keep paying the salaries of civil servants and
the military, and demobilize/restructure the military. Fiscal consolidation is, thus, crucial
to preserve civil peace and improve the prospects of economic recovery and poverty
reduction.
This Letter of Development Policy also maps out the medium-term strategy the
Government intends to implement under the Fiscal Consolidation Credit and beyond, to
reverse the deterioration in human capital and physical infrastructure, with the help of our
partners. The Government is convinced that the policies and measures described in the
Letter of Development Policy will help attain the objectives of the program, and remains
ready to adopt any additional measures, which may become necessary. The Government
will respond favorably to all requests for information on the part of IDA relating to the
implementation of these measures and policies.
Yours truly,
Anicet Georges DOLOGUELE
[Seal of Office]



16                          ANNEX A
Page 2 of 9
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FISCAL, CONSOLIDATION CREDIT
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I.   Preface
1.  Following the mutinies of 1996/97, the Government of CAR, with the help of its
partners, worked hard to arrest civil unrest and reverse economic decline. Those efforts
paid off, as the security situation improved and the economy resumed growing. A PFP
for the 1998-2000 period was agreed in May 1998, which was supported by a donors'
meeting sponsored by the World Bank. In July 1998, the IMF approved a three-year
ESAF for an amount equivalent to US$66 million, and debt relief on Naples terms was
extended by the Paris Club in September 1998.
2.   There was also progress orn the political front, as CAR's external partners helped
prepare and monitor the legislative elections of November 1998. The Government took
strong measures to improve tax collection and accelerate structural reform. In particular,
privatization of petroleum import and distribution gained momentum, and progress was
made towards privatizing the management of the power company.  One major
commercial bank (BICA)was privatized, and the privatization of a second bank (UBAC)
was accelerated. This progress allowed the IMF to complete its first review of the ESAF
and to release its second tranche on June 22, 1999. Before that, in May 1999, IDA
extended an advance under the Project Preparation Facility to prepare the proposed
Policy Support Project (FY2000), to help CAR implement its reform program.
Presidential elections were held in September 1999 and a new government has been
appointed, which includes technocrats in charge of the reform program, as well as figures
from the opposition and civil society.
3.    Despite this progress on the economic and political fronts, the situation remains
fragile and in great need for consolidation. In particular, the peace keeping force
(M[NURCA) has started its withdrawal from CAR in November and is scheduled to
complete it by March 2000. A longer time schedule may be necessary, given the delays,
in a pre-election context, in implementing the provisions of the Bangui Accords
concerning the demobilization andS restructuring of the armed forces. This is a politically
highly sensitive issue, which is, however, crucial for future stability.
II.   The Government's Development Policy
4.    Our medium term objectives consist of arresting and reversing the degradation in
the country's human and physical infrastructure, and developing its considerable natural
potential. But the immediate priority is fiscal consolidation to enable the Government to
carry out its basic functions. Higher revenue, better and more transparent spending
management and privatized public enterprises (to reduce quasi-fiscal losses and
subsidies) will allow the regular payment of wages, including to the military, improving
the prospects of sustained civil peace and the servicing of the debt. In turn, these would



17                          ANNEX A
Page 3 of 9
improve the prospects of economic recovery and poverty reduction, with the help of our
partners.
A.   Revenue Policies
5.   Increasing revenue is badly needed to: (i) pay wages; (ii) develop human capital;
and (iii) maintain and expand physical infrastructure. The strong measures taken in the
first half of 1999 led to a significant improvement in macroeconomic performance, but it
is essential to sustain the drive. The Government commits itself to preserve
macroeconomic stability. Government revenue policies will aim at: (i) centralizing the
collection of all revenue under the sole authority of the Ministry of Finance and Budget;
(ii) improving the administration and collection of taxes and customs duties; and (iii)
gradually reforning the tax system. These objectives are congruent with the regional
initiatives within CEMAC (Communaute Economique et Monetaire de l'Afrique
Centrale), aiming at broadening the tax base and consolidating/simplifying the tax
system to make it more equitable, more transparent and easier to administer.
6.    Efforts to simplify the tax system and increase its efficiency will concentrate on
the replacement in 2000 of the turnover tax with a value added tax, featuring a single rate.
This reform will be complemented by the introduction of a single tax for small businesses
(impot synthitique) and the reduction in the number of income tax brackets. In the past,
generous tax exemptions have been granted, sometimes illegally, to investors in the main
export sectors (timber, cotton, diamonds and coffee). Over the past two years, the
Government has refrained from granting such tax exemptions and intends to continue to
do so. The Government will submit to IDA an inventory of special tax exemptions
granted to mining and logging operations between January 1, 1995 and December 31,
1998.
B.  Budget Management
7. The Government has already taken a number of measures to improve budget
management and tighten budget control. Off-budget spending has been curtailed in 1998
and unlawfuil bank accounts of ministries have been closed in April 1998. Any deviation
from the approved budget in the course of the year now requires Parliament approval.
The monitoring of budget execution has improved through the preparation of monthly
reports on revenue and expenditure. And the Treasury has started preparing a monthly
and a quarterly "rolling" cash-flow management plan to keep spending in line with the
approved budget and within available resources. The authorities intend to improve
transparency and accountability of public sector management, notably by completely
eliminating off-budget spending, further tightening budget controls, reviewing tax
exemptions, privatizing public enterprises and setting appropriate penalties for abuse and
corruption.
8.    To improve efficiency of spending, the Government needs to better control its
wage bill, which absorbs a high share of budgetary resources (47 percent in 1998),
crowding out spending on essential goods and services, including in the social sectors.
The Parliament has already adopted a Civil Service Law introducing merit-based



18                           ANNEX A
Page 4 of 9
promotion rules. The payroll will be carefully checked to eliminate "ghost workers".
The Government commits itself to avoid any additional wage arrears.
9.    To restore its credibility and bolster economic activity, the Government intends to
gradually eliminate payment arrears to domestic suppliers and civil servants, in a
transparent and equitable way, onI the basis of an audit of internal debt as of end- 1997.
The authorities also intend to settle external payments arrears, but domestic resource
constraints make this objective largely dependent on additional assistance from donors
and creditors, including in the form of debt relief.
C.   Private Sector Development.
10.   CAR intends to encourage private investment as the engine of economic growth.
Private investment as a share of GDP is at a low 4 percent. The Government is fully
aware of the need to further encourage private investment and has initiated actions to
improve the business environment. The government program is focused on three areas:
(i) privatization and liberalization; (ii) legal and regulatory environment and (iii)
infrastructure development.
11.   Privatization and liberalization. Starting in 1998, the Government re-energized
its privatization program and focused it on two large commercial banks, PETROCA, the
petroleum imports and distribution company, and ENERCA, the power utility. The
privatization program aims at reducing quasi-fiscal losses and subsidies, while improving
transparency and economic efficiency. In addition to disengaging itself from existing
parastatals, the Government is committed not to create any new public enterprise,
including financial institutions, nor to take new capital participation in existing
enterprises. To promote economic liberalization further, the Government will also
review the legal and regulatoiy framework in key sectors (electricity, water,
telecommunications, mining), update the labor code, reduce the level of protection, and
eliminate remaining price controls.
12.   CAR has made good progress towards the restructuring and privatization of the
banking sector. Four banks have been closed. Of the three remaining commercial banks,
one has already been privatized (Banque Intemationale pour la Centrafrique, BICA), and
the privatization of a second one (IJnion Bancaire de l'Afrique Centrale, UBAC) is in an
advanced stage. Government and a Cameroonian private partner have signed the
agreement for the privatization of UBAC, which, has also been authorized by the
Parliament. The third bank (Banque Populaire Maroco-Centrafricaine, BPMC) is being
recapitalized by its shareholders. The authorities will also cooperate with the regional
supervision agency (COBAC) to ensure that banks abide strictly by prudential rules and
constitute adequate provisions to cover non-performing loans.
13.   The key objectives of the privatization of PETROCA are to increase government
revenue in a transparent manner and to ensure a steady supply of petroleum products to
the economy. A Law enacted in May 1999 provided for the liquidation of PETROCA.
In June 1999, the 337 employees of PETROCA were dismissed and an amount of CFAF
576.6 million was paid to settle their rights. In October 1999 an agreement was signed
with three multinational petroleum companies. The agreement grants exclusivity rights



19                          ANNEX A
Page 5 of 9
to the private investors for a period of five years, after which the sector will be opened to
competition. The next step now is for the three companies to establish SOGAL as a
private petroleum distribution company. This is expected to take place in early 2000.
Once established, SOGAL will take over existing facilities and inventories. In the
interim, the Government has entrusted ENERCA with the task of importing oil products,
to avoid disrupting the highly seasonal supply of these products via the Ubangui river.
14.   The Government is taking steps to privatize the management of ENERCA, the
power utility, and to establish an autonomous regulatory body. Preparation of the
bidding documents for the leasing (affermage) of ENERCA is to start shortly. The
Government has also prepared a draft strategy for the power sector, which will be
finalized, and the electricity code which will be submitted to Parliament. The new
regulatory framework is expected to be in place before June 2000, paving the way to the
effective leasing (affermage) of ENERCA.
15.   The Government is also trying to sell its shares in the telecommunications
company (SOCATEL), but so far, unsuccessfully. The Government is pursuing the
rehabilitation of the commercial and technical management of SOCATEL to improve its
salability. It has also opened the sector to competition, by granting an operating license
to a cellular phone operator (TELECEL). In 2000, the Government will seek assistance
from consultants for the privatization of SOCATEL and the establishment of a regulatory
authority.
16.  In the water sector, the management of production facilities and commercial
activities has been privatized since 1991. A private operator (SAUR Afrique) has
managed an indirect lease-farming contract with SNE, a national holding company
created to that effect. The Government has recently taken steps to reduce the cost of this
management contract by liquidating SNE and negotiating a new direct lease-farming
contract with SAUR Afrique. The French cooperation will provide technical assistance
to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Public Works to manage the new contract.
17. Regulatory frameworks The Government is convinced that privatization of
utilities requires the preparation of adequate regulations as well as the creation of an
autonomous body to enforce them. Accordingly, the Government will update the legal
and regulatory framework in key sectors of the economy, notably electricity, water and
telecommunications. The electricity code is under preparation with assistance from the
World Bank. Furthermore, the Government commits itself to create a single autonomous
authority to regulate the utilities sector (water, electricity and telecommunications). This
should save scarce resources, create synergies and reinforce the credibility of the new
authority as an independent body.
18. The legal framework in the forestry sector is being updated with French assistance.
The next steps are to review and update the legal framework for the mining and
telecommunications sectors. The Government intends to encourage the development of
mineral resources, so far insufficiently exploited. It will articulate a mining sector
strategy in conjunction with the revision of the Mining Code.  In parallel, the
Government will seek to increase transparency and reduce fraud in mineral exploitation
through appropriate changes in the tax regime and in its administration. It will ensure



20                          ANNEX A
Page 6 of 9
that mining activity is subject to the provisions of General Tax Code and Customs Code
and that its taxation is consistent wAith the new Investment Charter.
19. The Government has taken a number of initiatives to improve the business
environment. Together with a number of African countries, it has streamlined and
updated business laws under the aegis of the Organization for Harmonization of Business
Law in Africa (OHADA). A new Labor Code has been prepared to foster labor market
flexibility. It is expected to be submitted to the Parliament shortly. The Government has
merged the two public agencies responsible for employment promotion (ONMO) and
vocational training (ONIFOP), to improve efficiency and reduce costs. With assistance
from the International Labor Office, the Government is preparing an action plan to
restore the viability of the social security office (OCSS), which has been suffering from
the siphoning of its reserves, high operating costs, poor management and insufficient
contributions. An Investment Charter simplifying administrative formalities for private
investors, while avoiding excessive tax concessions will be introduced in accordance with
the General Tax Code and the Customs Code in 2000. More generally, the Government
is committed to continue its liberal price policy, and gradually eliminate remaining price
controls and monopolies.
D.   Transport infrastructure.
20.   Given the landlocked situation of CAR, its vast size and the dispersion of
economic activities, good roads are essential. Therefore, in collaboration with donors,
the authorities will set up and implement a program of road rehabilitation and
maintenance to ensure the efficient operation of the essential links between population
and production centers, as well as of the main export and transit routes. The Government
will also redefine the role and structure of the Road Fund and take appropriate measures
to improve its operations on the basis of a recently completed financial and
organizational audit undertaken with the support of the European Union (EU).
21.   The authorities have adopted the principle of introducing road user fee and have
finalized the practical modalities of its implementation, in order to ensure the adequate
financing of the Road Fund. The 'Government will make sure that PETROCA fully meets
its obligations to the Road Fund. The Government will also tighten controls of financial
management of the Road Fund, improve its administration, and privatize its equipment.
The EU expects to implement an Action Plan based on the above mentioned audit,
starting in year 2000. In addition, the Government intends to develop and implement a
general framework for shifting an increasing share of general road maintenance and rural
road construction to local commumities and private companies. The second transport
program will be submitted to donors in early 2000.
D.   Cotton Sector.
22.   The cotton sector is in a difficult situation, and its future at risk, with potential
major consequences on poverty, as cotton is the main (possibly, the only) cash crop for
almost 200,000 rural families (about one-third of the population). The sector faces
structural problems due to diseconomies of scale, poor agricultural practices and
excessive operating costs of SOCOCA, the company which has the monopoly of



21                           ANNEX A
Page 7 of 9
purchasing and marketing of cotton. A Round Table in April 1999 reviewed the scope
for cost savings and structural reform in the sector. The Government intends to undertake
a far reaching reform of the sector.
23.   More immediately, it is the financial position of SOCOCA which is a cause of
concern, as it is seriously affected by the steep decline in world cotton prices, the lowest
in 14 years. Its deficit is estimated at about FCFA 1.2 billion in 1998/99. The
Government has been pursuing with SOCOCA and external partners a program to close
the financing gap through tax exemptions, elimination of subsidies for inputs, reduction
of operating costs, and direct budget subsidies. Furthermore, the Government has just
taken the painful but necessary decision to reduce producer prices by CFAF 20 per kg. of
seed cotton, and to close an inefficient ginning plant. Even with these measures, the
deficit of SOCOCA is projected to reach FCFA 1.8 billion in 1999/2000. The
Government commits itself not to exceed this deficit. Furthermore, in order not to
worsen the health of the banking sector, financing of the deficit will exclude any
medium-term bank credit (direct or through the Central Bank).
E.    Improving the Delivery of Social Services.
24.   CAR's social indicators further deteriorated due to civil unrest, economic decline
and weak fiscal position, and as a result, are now among the worst in the world. The
Govermnent is seeking to reverse this deterioration by increasing spending for social
sectors, notably education and health. In 1998, about 75 percent of the budget allocations
for goods and services in education and health was effectively disbursed, which was
higher than the disbursement rate of 50 percent in 1997, and also higher than the
disbursement rate of 67 percent for the other sectors. The 1999 budget provides for an
18.6 percent increase in spending on goods and services for education, and an 15 percent
increase for health.
25.   CAR has enacted a law outlining education policies, and the Govermment is
finalizing a National Education Development Plan based on the recommendations of the
1994 National Conference on Education. This plan will focus on quality and equity of
education, while promoting decentralization, and the participation of beneficiaries, the
private sector, local communities, and NGOs to the financing and management of
education. Within the overall education strategy, the priority is to raise primary school
enrollment rate in general, and of girls in particular. To improve the quality of education,
the Government intends to strengthen teachers' training and re-deploy those working in
central administration to understaffed schools; improve the supply of text books and
school supplies; rehabilitate schools; and adapt curricula to the interest and needs of the
population.
26.  In accordance with the National Health Development Plan, the primary objective
of the government's public health policy is to increase the access to, and quality of,
health services, especially primary care for mothers and infants and rural population. In
addition, priority will be given to the provision of essential generic medicines throughout
the country and to a sensitization program on the AIDS/HIV problem. The functioning
of the Ministry of Health will be strengthened by streamlining and improving the
management of health services at all levels through appropriate training. Decision



22                           ANNEX A
Page 8 of 9
making will be decentralized, including through the participation of communities in
planning, managing and financing of health programs. In an effort to improve
transparency, health institutions will be given greater autonomy and accountability.
27.   The authorities' efforts to reverse the deterioration in the social indicators will be
backed by reviews of public expenditure in the education and health sectors that will be
carried out under IDA the envisaged Policy Support Project. These reviews are expected
to map out sectoral strategies to improve the volume, cost effectiveness and equity of
spending.
F.  Demobilization.
28. The Government is painfully aware of the need to reform the military to avoid
recurrence of past crises. Demobilization is a first and essential step in this effort. In the
past two years, with assistance from the UN forces, the Government has implemented a
vast program of weapon collection. To date about 90 percent of heavy weaponry and 60
percent of light weaponry, which had been stolen from army facilities during the
mutinies, have been recovered. In October 1999 Parliament approved a Law providing
for the restructuring of the military, putting all defense personnel under the same
authority. A demobilization program has been prepared with UNDP assistance. It calls
for a 15 percent reduction of the armed forces, through early retirement and other
measures. The program would result in savings of about US$ 1.4 million in the wage
bill. The Government is actively seeking donor support to implement the demobilization
program.
G. Improved Governance
29. Governance issues have been at the root of the poor fiscal performance, which in
turn was a major cause of the mutinies of 1996/97. Improving governance is a long term
endeavor. It needs to be pursued vigorously. In the past two years, the Government has
given strong signals that it is committed to address fraud and corruption forcefully. A
certain number of special tax exemptions that had been illegally granted to investors in
mining and logging have been denounced. In July 1999, the Government uncovered a
serious fraud, whereby a private company purchased duty-free petroleum products for re-
export to a neighboring country, but sold them on the local market instead. The case is
now in pending in local courts.
30. The Government intends to pursue these efforts. It will prepare a plan of action to
address irregular exemptions granted under logging and mining concessions and seek
IDA advice and support to implement it. The Government will set tight performance
criteria for revenue mobilization agencies and take sanctions as appropriate. Off budget
spending will be eliminated and budget control will be tightened. The capacity of
government agencies to carry out procurement will be reinforced.  Finally, the
Government will complete the privatization of major public enterprises, which have
served in the past as a source of extra, budget expenditures. The role of the Parliament in
budget control will be reinforced.



23                          ANNEX A
Page 9 of 9
H.   Program Monitoring
31.   Oversight of program implementation will continue to be the responsibility of the
Inter-ministerial Committee for the Adjustment Program chaired by the Prime Minister
(who is also Minister of Finance, and Minister of Planning). A Technical Committee, in
which all ministries concerned with the implementation of the program are represented,
is in charge of the follow up of implementation of reform. The Secretariat of the
Technical Committee will continue to issue monthly reports on the implementation of
structural reform.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT
Program Policy Matrix
AREA            OBJECTIVE                                             MEASURES AND ACTIONS                                 TIMETABLE
Public Finance
Revenue         Increase revenue in a       *  Refrain from granting special tax exemptions to logging and mining operations.  *  Continuous
transparent and efficient   *  Submit to IDA inventory of special tax exemptions granted between January 1, 1995  *  April 2000
manner                          and December 31, 1998 to logging and mining operations.
*  Institute minimum turnover tax for diamond-purchasing bureaus.             *  Done
*  Consolidate export turnover taxation into a single tax.                    *  Done
a  Replace turmover tax with value-added tax.                                 *  2000
*  Introduce broad-based licensing for sma]l-scale taxpayers.                 *  2000
Expenditure     Improve prospects for civil  *  No additional salary arrears during the 12 months preceding April 1, 2000  *  April 2000
peace
Improve road maintenance    *  Settlement of PETROCA's obligations to the Road Fund due in 1999            *  April 2000
Reverse deterioration in social  *   1999 budget allocation for goods and services on education and health is 18.6% and  *  Done
indicators                      15% higher, respectively.
Improve fiscal transparency  *  Closure of unlawful bank accounts of ministries.                           *  Done (04/98)
*  Elimination of all off-budget spending.                                    *  2000
Cotton Sector    Reduce deficit of sector   *  Lowering of producer prices                                                 *  Done (11/99)
parastatal (SOCOCA)         *  Closure of one ginning plant                                                *  Done (1 1/99)
*  Adoption of flexible price setting mechanism                               *  2000/2001
*  No financing of deficit by medium-term bank credit                         *  2000
qt g



AREA            OBJECTIVE                                             MEASURES AND ACTIONS                                 TIMETABLE
Privatization of  Reduce quasi-fiscal losses and  *  Privatize BICA (commercial bank)                                      *  Done (1999)
Public          subsidies to public enterprises,  *  Privatize UBAC (commercial bank)                                      *  Done (1999)
Enterprises     improve transparency and    *  Close all public enterprises that have ceased operation                     *  Done (1999)
efficiency.                 *  Privatize petroleum products imports and distribution:
*  Liquidate PETROCA.                                                      *  Done (1999)
*  Settle rights of employees affected by privatization.                   *  Done (1999)
*  Agree with three oil companies on transfer of PETROCA's assets.         *  Done (1999)
*  Creation of SOGAL, to take over the importation and distribution of     *  April 2000
petroleum products.
*  Approve strategy for power sector and submit revised electricity code to Parliament.  .  June 2000
*  Prepare regulatory framework for the water and telecommunications sectors.
*  Create an autonomous regulatory body for the water, electricity and        *  June 2000
telecommunications sectors.                                                *  June 2000
*  Bring ENERCA, the power utility, to the point of leasing.
*  June 2000
Business        Improve regulatory framework  *  OHADA legislation enacted                                                 *   1998
Environment                                  *  Labor Code revised                                                         *  end-1999
0 



26                       ANNEX C
Page 1 of 10
TRANSITIONAL SUPPORT STRATEGY NOTE
CENTRAL, AFRICAN REPUBLIC
November 23, 1999
Macroeconomics Unit 3
Africa Region



27                            ANNEX C
Page 2 of 10
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Transitional Support Strategy Note
A. Background and Recent Developments
1. Central African Republic (CAR) is one of the poorest and least developed countries in
the world. Real per capita income declined from about US$465 in 1977 to US$345 in 1993
(1987 prices) and still further to just over US$300 today. This is despite a rich endowment
of natural resources, especially of diamonds and timber, and substantial agricultural and
livestock potential. High costs due, in particular, to the inadequate internal and external
transport networks in a land-locked country with a low population density, have
undoubtedly played their part. However, weak economic management and governance are
by far the most important explanations for the country's' poor economic performance.
2. The decline began in the early 1 970s. CAR used windfall resources generated by high
international commodity prices to launch a large number of public enterprises, which rapidly
became a heavy burden on public finances and on the economy. This was compounded
from the early 1980s onwards by poor tax revenue collection, an excessive public sector
wage bill, inefficient public service delivery, and low levels of private sector activity.
Between 1990 and 1993, the economy entered into a severe crisis characterized by a six
percent decline in GDP, falling exports of coffee, cotton and timber, and the accumulation of
large external and domestic arrears, including 12 months of civil service salaries. Publicly
financed schools, hospitals and clinics remained closed for most of the period.
3. It was in this troubled context, amid a popular clamor for political change, that Mr.
Ange-Felix Patasse was elected President in 1993. His incontestable mandate, combined
with the devaluation of the CFA franc at the beginning of 1994, presented CAR with a rare
opportunity to engage in a program of economic reform backed by the goodwill and
resources of the international donor community. This opportunity was not seized, however.
After budget support and debt relief were provided under an IMF Stand-by Arrangement,
the Government failed to improve fiscal performance and implement structural reforms. In
1995, a renewed attempt was made to correct fiscal imbalances on the strength of solid
economic growth of over 7 percent. This, too, came to nothing due to the failure to execute
structural reforms in a timely manner and to the sharp deterioration in the financial sector.
Preparation of a fourth Structural Adjustment Credit was halted.
4. This latest failure was followed by the reemergence of large scale domestic arrears,
particularly on salaries to the military, which triggered three major mutinies between April
1996 and January 1997. The mutinies brought in their wake loss of life, looting, and
widespread and lasting damage to the modern economy, above all in the capital city of
Bangui.



28                              ANNEX C
Page 3 of 10
5.   Since early 1997, the international community has intervened, in a variety of mutually
interdependent ways, to assist the Government, first, in restoring order, and then to attack
the roots of the malaise:
*  A group of African leaders made a concerted effort to bring the warring factions
together, and this finally bore fruit in the Bangui Accords of January 1997. The
Accords foresee inter alia: (i) an extension of regular consultative processes across the
political and ethnic spectra, and (-ii) the restructuring of the armed forces both to reduce
overall numbers, and to facilitate internal mobility, in particular access to the elite
presidential guard (and its successor unit), which remains dominated by personnel from
the President's area of the country.
*  An inter African and French force (MISAB) helped restore security in the capital city
and was succeeded by a UN peacekeeping force (MINfRCA) in mid 1998.
* Legislative elections, in which the international donor community played a significant
financing and monitoring role, were held at the end of 1998. They were considered to
have been generally fair, and resudted in a slim majority for the parties associated with
President Patasse.
*  In July 1998, the IMF approved a three-year ESAF, which allowed CAR to initiate a
program of fiscal stabilization, and to settle IDA arrears. This was preceded by a Bank-
hosted donors' meeting in June, which voiced support for the program and agreed on a
tentative financing plan largely underwritten by multilateral institutions. In September
1998, the Paris Club extended debt relief on Naples terms.
6.   The restoration of order has brought relative peace to the capital city and enabled
economic activities to start again. In both 1997 and 1998, real economic growth has been
estimated at close to five percent. A new Government, led by former Finance Minister
Dologuele, who was previously a seni or staff from the regional central bank, was formed in
January 1999, and has taken strong corrective action to improve fiscal revenues and
implement structural reforms. The end-March 1999 fiscal target agreed with the IMF was
met, and there has been an effort to accelerate the privatization of petroleum distribution, the
power utility and the two main commercial banks. The review of the first year of the ESAF
was completed, and the IMIF Board approved the release of the second tranche on June 22.
7.   Despite the Prime Minister's best efforts, however, implementation of the reform
program has been difficult in both its political and econoomic dimensions. Restructuring of
the armed forces has barely begun until recently. Demobilization has stalled due to lack of
donor financing, itself inhibited by the absence of clear policies on, for instance, the
composition of elite units or re-integration of demobilized soldiers into society. There has
been insufficient break with the past concerning weak governance practices and lack of
transparency. A powerful group of advisers and other counselors, many of them ex-
Ministers, still surrounds the President and apparently has access to extra-budgetary sources
of financing, notably from public enterprises. Little progress was made in denouncing
forestry and diamond concessions, m,hich were granted in the absence of open bidding
processes and provided large fiscal exemptions. Customs Services are widely perceived as



29                             ANNEX C
Page 4 of 10
riddled with corruption and collect only a fraction of due revenue. Capacity constraints
stemming from a demoralized and unmotivated civil service are finally an important
bottleneck. Despite recent efforts, the economic recovery continues to be substantially less
than fully reflected in increased tax revenues. Consequently, far from being able to reduce
previous salary arrears, the Government accumulated new ones in 1998. Finally, in the
absence of revenue enhancing measures, there is little room for vitally needed increased
expenditures in the social sectors and in basic infrastructure.
8.  Future prospects hinge largely on security and political developments. Presidential
elections were held in September 1999, and are considered to have been generally fair.
They resulted in the reelection, in the first round, of President Patasse with over 51 percent
of the vote. Incumbent reformist Prime Minister Dologuele has been re-appointed and has
chosen a new government, which includes technocrats in charge of the reform program, as
well as figures from the opposition and civil society. This composition is perceived by the
donor community as a signal that the deep social and economic problems of the country are
now finally likely to be addressed.. Opposition to the reform program in the Presidency has
also been weakened by the recent dismissal of powerful advisers involved in a scandal
centered on the duty-free import of petroleum products. The gradual withdrawal of
MINURCA will begin soon with completion during the first six months of CY2000.
Avoidance of further civil strife will most likely depend on regular payment of salaries,
better inclusion of minority ethnic groups and satisfactory implementation of the Bangui
Accords, especially the restructuring of the armed forces.
B.  A Post-conflict Transitional Strategy
9.   Against this difficult background, this Strategy Note proposes a two-stage approach
spread over three years and divided into two periods of about 18 months each. The first
period would focus on three broad dimensions: (i) consolidating fiscal reform; (ii)
improving governance; and (iii) laying the foundations of a long term poverty reduction
program. The nature of IDA's intervention in the second 18-month period would depend on
progress in implementing the reform program during the first phase. If the Authorities stay
the course of reform, investment lending in key sectors such as health, education and basic
infrastructure could be considered. On the other hand, if they are unable to make progress in
their reform effort, further lending would not be justified, and we would essentially enter a
watching mode.
Phase I
10.  The first strategic objective of this phase, which would run to about the end of FY01,
would be to consolidate the fiscal situation and implementation of key recent economic
reforms with a view to averting a renewed fiscal crisis. This consolidation is necessary if
the basic functions of Government are to be restored and the foundations laid for sustained
social stability, above all in the capital city, Bangui. This means, inter alia, ensuring that
fiscal revenues are sufficient to (i) pay civil service and armed forces salaries and related
social obligations, in full and on time; (ii) progressively eliminate outstanding salary arrears;



30                              ANNEX C
Page 5 of 10
(iii) ensure the functioning of basic government services in health, education and other key
sectors; and (iv) continue to service external debt. Moreover, continued external support for
the peacekeeping and democratization processes hinges on stabilizing the country's finances
and restoring investor confidence. Without IDA involvement, the IMF ESAF would not be
financed, and a derailment of the program supported by the ESAF would increase
significantly the risks of renewed civil strife.
11. The key to stronger public finances is improving the rate of tax collection, which
currently hovers around 7 percent of GDP. This will require action in the short term to (a)
reform, and perhaps temporarily substitute for, the corrupt Customs Administration; (b)
broaden the tax base; and (c) reverse past practice of granting legally dubious exemptions,
especially in the diamond and forestry sectors. Eliminating subsidies for inefficient
parastatals would make room for meeting government basic obligations. Privatization of
key public enterprises and the reform of the cotton sector are key elements of Phase 1.
12. The second objective is to improve governance and to help begin to restore the
Authorities'credibility towards both civil society and the international community.
Credibility is currently lacking for two main reasons. First, two deeply-rooted features of
the political system -- patronage and the "winner takes all" practice -- have systematically
eroded accountability. Second, other reformist Prime Ministers have tried in recent years to
break free from this system and failed because their efforts led to clashes with powerful
interest groups close to the Head of State. Since 1998, Finance and then Prime Minister
Dologuele has led a new and deternmined attempt to progressively restore discipline and
accountability but in a non confrontational way with the President. This has, so far, been
quite successful.
13.  Clearly, reform in this area is a long term process and eventual success will require
restoring control and monitoring functions in ministries and public institutions, deepening
administrative reform through linking rewards to performance, effective monitoring of
government actions by Parliament and building the strength of civil society. In this first
phase, a critically important beginning is being made through (i) privatizing the main public
enterprises which have either been a drain on fiscal resources, or used as extra-budgetary
cash-cows; (ii) privatizing the two state banks thereby helping to shield the banking system
from politically motivated intervention; and (iii) increasing transparency in the management
of fiscal resources.
14. A further key element in underpinning peace and restoring credibility is the
restructuring of the armed forces. The Goverrunent is engaged to do this under the 1997
Bangui Accords. Thus far, progress has been slow. This is partly because donor funding for
the reintegration of demobilized personnel into civil society has failed to materialize. Donor
reluctance, in turn, can be partially explained by official tardiness in addressing a number of
politically delicate issues connected with the relatively elite corps which used to be known
as the Presidential Guard. This elite, which is relatively well-paid and equipped, is staffed
largely by personnel originating from the same area of the country as the Head of State.



31                             ANNEX C
Page 6 of 10
Under the Bangui Accords, the Authorities are committed to increase mobility between this
elite corps and the rest of the army so that the former has a more representative mix of the
country's ethnic diversity. Recently, about 630 officers and soldiers have been retired and
their salary arrears paid. The law which reorganizes the army and reintegrates the
FORSDIR (the special presidential guard) into the national army structure has been adopted
by parliament and promulgated by the President. These actions are seen as the clear signal of
a new political will to move forward with the restructuring of the army.
15. The Government's determination to carry through the restructuring of the armed
forces has been reiterated in its Letter of Development Policy requesting the proposed Fiscal
Consolidation Credit. Part of the local currency proceeds of the credit would be used as
partial financing for the demobilization, and would act as seed money for the contributions
of other donors. Progress in carrying out the restructuring process will be closely monitored
by the UNDP who are taking the lead in the dialogue with the Authorities on this issue.
16. The third first phase objective is to lay the foundations of a Poverty Reduction
Program. The political and economic crises, as well as the armed mutinies, which have
afflicted the Central African Republic in recent years have exacted a particularly heavy toll
on the poor.  Although social indicators are scarce and extremely unreliable, the
deteriorating social situation is clearly visible. For example, there was widespread looting
and destruction of pharmaceutical stocks during the mutinies. These stocks have been only
very partially replaced, and a wide range of essential drugs is simply not available. In both
health and education, fiscal penury has led, through non-payment of wages and absence of
operating materials, to a virtual breakdown in public services. An unknown but significant
number of people, especially in Bangui, lost their homes and means of livelihood during the
mutinies. Lastly, almost all manufacturing activity was destroyed in Bangui which, in
addition to the closing of two French army bases in 1998, contributed to growing
unemployment. Faced with this dire and deteriorating situation, the Authorities, fully
occupied with the immediate fiscal crisis, have thus far been unable to develop a strategy for
addressing poverty.
17. IDA had begun to develop a Poverty Profile of the Central African Republic before
the mutinies interrupted the work. Over the next 18 months, we would update and complete
this work and begin collaborating with the Authorities on the development of a coherent
poverty alleviation strategy and action plan. Though the government finalized a "National
program to combat poverty" with UNDP technical assistance in May 1999, significant
analytical work is still needed. Much of this substantive work would be carried our by
experts financed under the proposed Policy Support Project (PSP).
18. The strategy would address the issue of the role of the State. The public sector will
not, for the foreseeable future, be strong enough to implement effectively the kind of
development program needed to address poverty and social malaise in the Central African
Republic. Thus, an essential pillar of a medium term development strategy is the
strengthening of capacity at community level to obtain better involvement and participation



32                            ANNEX C
Page 7 of 10
in the reconstruction process. Local communities and NGOs should play a central role in
this inclusive effort. Some of the basic work related to furthering non-governmental
delivery of essential services has already begun with the support of a DGF grant extended to
the Central African Republic in 1998 (the work was contracted to GTZ, the German
technical assistance agency). Furthe.r work will be carried out under the second tranche of
the DGF in FY00, and eventually in concert with other donors, notably the European Union.
19. The overall poverty strategy would be complemented by similar work (also supported
by the proposed PSP) in key sectors such as health, education, basic infrastructure
(especially roads), and urban sector needs, above all in the city of Bangui, where there is an
urgent requirement to improve living conditions through the creation of new sources of
employment.  Provided the country's overall economic reform  program  proceeds
successfully, the poverty and social sector strategies would form the basis of a Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper which may lead not only to further IMF and IDA support but also
enhanced contributions from the wider donor community.
20.  The main instrumentfor this first phase of our strategy would be the proposed Fiscal
Consolidation Credit. This would be a rapid disbursement operation to support urgent fiscal
and adjustment measures. The total proposed amount would be US$20 million equivalent,
disbursed in three tranches -- $9 million upon effectiveness, a second tranche of US$5
million, and a third, floating tranche of US$6 million.
21. For the operation to achieve its objectives, it should be fully disbursed within, at most
an eighteen, and hopefully a twelve-month period. A relatively rapid injection of US$20
million (thus providing substantial net transfers in CY2000) is considered justified in order
to provide the reform team with the necessary support and breathing space to carry the
program through.  Despite President Patasse's impressive first round victory in the
September 1999 presidential elections, the position of Prime Minister Dologuele and his
reformist colleagues remains politically fragile. The President confirmed his re-nomination
only after an intense power struggle within the ruling party and its allies. Clear support
from IDA would provide invaluable support and impetus for the program and be perceived
as a clear signal of the donor community's support to the new government. Such support
would complement the already significant commitment from the IMF, help to facilitate a
resumption of lending from the African Development Bank, and send a clear signal to the
rest of the donor comrnmunity.
22. A series of one-tranche operations was initially considered. It was felt, however, that
the proposed multi-tranche operation was preferable because it would signal a stronger IDA
support to the reform program and the reformers in the country. The other operation
foreseen in this phase of the proposed strategy would be a Policy Support Project (PSP), in
an amount of about US$5 million, to help the Government implement its reform program.
The project would be a simple technical assistance operation rather than attempting, at this
stage, to support longer term institutional development.  Given the dilapidated and
demoralized state of the public administration and the continuing need to demonstrate



33                            ANNEX C
Page 8 of 10
lasting commitment to the reform program, a more complex institution-building project
would likely be beyond the Authorities' implementation capacity during this phase of the
strategy. The project would strengthen the Central African Republic's capacity to
implement policies more conducive to poverty reduction, by (i) helping to implement a more
sustainable government budget; (ii) improving transparency of public sector management;
(iii) disengaging the State from commercial activities; (iv) developing a policy and
regulatory framework favorable to private investment, (v) supporting the development of a
poverty alleviation strategy and action plans in key poverty-related sectors, (vi) preparing
cotton sector reform, and (vii) eventually helping in the technical preparation of the
restructuring of the armed forces. The PSP would help the Government carry out a Public
Expenditure Review, which would serye as the basis for improving the quantity and quality
of expenditures in the social sectors.  It would also help improve information and
communication with the Government's partners and the civil society.
Phase II
23. For the second roughly 18-month period, IDA's assistance would enter either a Base
Case or a Low Case. The trigger for the Base Case would be the success of the economic
reform program supported by the ongoing ESAF and proposed Fiscal Consolidation Credit,
which should be fully disbursed in a 12 to 18 month period. Key elements in assessing
success of the reform program would include (i) a solid increase in revenues, particularly
custom duties, (ii) the completion of the privatization program supported by the fiscal
consolidation credit (iii) the reduction of government support to the cotton sector and
adoption of a comprehensive reform program, and (iv) good progress in the demobilization
and restructuring of the army. Given the continuing need for policy reform and the
country's precarious financial state, the center-piece of the Base Case would be another
adjustment operation to support further structural reforms and fiscal consolidation.
24. Consideration would also be given to the resumption, on a highly selective basis, of
investment project lending in capacity building, the social sectors, and basic infrastructure.
Such a resumption would, however, be subject to a rigorous analysis of the prospects of
successful execution of the projects in the light of the Government's extremely weak
implementation capacity and the record of poor portfolio performance in the Central African
Republic. Grave inadequacies in both governance practices and poor management have
forced IDA to close all three investment projects which remained in the portfolio at the
beginning of FY2000.  A possible new cycle, which would be unlikely to start
implementation before late FY2002 at the earliest, would thus rely extensively on the
interventions of non-governmental organizations in project preparation and implementation.
It would be preceded by the presentation of a full Country Assistance Strategy.
25. Failure of the economic reform program (signaled by the suspension of the current
ESAF and/or significant delays in disbursing the proposed Fiscal Consolidation Credit)
would trigger a Low Case. Under the Low Case, IDA would essentially move into a
watching mode and no lending would take place.



34                             ANNEX C
Page 9 of 10
C. Risks and Risk Mitigation
26.  The proposed transitional strategy faces several interrelated risks. First, it hinges on
the Authorities' commitment to implement the Bangui Accords, carry out financial
stabilization and economic reform, and improve governance. This commitment is fragile.
Ownership of the reform program is far from widespread. Our dialogue is largely limited to
a small group of high quality interlocutors at the Prime Minister's office and the Finance
Ministry. They are, however, only a part of the decision-making process. Their ability to
carry the program through depends on the backing of the highest authority in the country, a
place where vested interests are entrenched. The past record is not encouraging. Three
previous SACs failed, as did an IiDA-financed technical assistance project. A risk of
repetition this time is somewhat mitigated by the fact that those currently spearheading the
reform effort - notably the Prime Minister - are closely allied with the President and are
unlikely to develop into his political rivals. The President's willingness to back reform may
also be strengthened by the sobering effect of past mutinies and the mandate he received
during his recent reelection.
27.  The second risk relates to the need for profound change in the administrative culture
and attitude prevalent among the country's leaders and population. The people and
institutions of the country have developed an aid dependence mentality, which is not
conducive to sustainable development. The ongoing reform program has been largely
prepared by the Fund and the Bank. The public administration remains largely passive,
unwilling or unable to invest sufficient time and resources in managing the program.
Reform-minded Central Africans, as well as the international community, must seek to
promote wider and deeper ownership of economic management and reform, increased
cornmunity and civil society participation in policy  formulation  and programs
implementation, and more public debate of issues. We are presently discussing with the
authorities how the intended PSP could help internalize the economic reform program.
28. The third risk is the limited technical and human capacity to implement the needed
reforms.  Past technical assistance has failed largely because it was provided in an
environment that was not conducive to the transfer of know-how and accountability. To
address this, further assistance must be linked, in the short run, to the Government's
demonstrable commitment to reform and to a better use of its scarce human resources, and
in the longer term to deeper administrative and civil service reforrn. A successful track
record in implementing reform would also enable broader donor leverage and support.
29.  Thefourth risk concerns the Bank's own internal ability to implement the transitional
strategy. Since 1995, due to budget constraints, we have essentially discontinued all
economic and sector work in CAR. This has seriously affected our capacity to carry out a
meaningful policy dialogue and provide badly needed policy advice. At the same time, the
phasing out of Bank operations in CAR and budget considerations have also led to drastic
scaling down of the Resident Mission. Clearly the country's track record to date makes it



35                              ANNEX C
Page 10 of 10
difficult to justify increasing the administrative budget allocated to it. However, as evidence
of a real desire for change in CAR is progressively demonstrated, a significant increase in
internal Bank resources should be considered. Without it, we could neither maintain the
momentum of the program, nor our credibility with either the Central African Authorities
Government or external partners. The proposed Policy Support Project would provide
urgent technical assistance, but such a project would only be a partial and limited substitute
for Bank policy advice and aid coordination. On the other hand, should the Authorities fail
to live up to their reform commitments, the Bank should be prepared to suspend its support,
close its Bangui offices, and discontinue the preparation of other operations in the Central
African Republic.



36                                                       ANNEX D
Page I of 2
Central African Republic at a glance
Central     Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                 African  Saharan      Low-
Republic    Africa  income   i Development diamond
1998
Population, mid-year(millions)                        3.5       628      3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    300       480       520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      1.0       304      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                        2.1        2.6       1.7                      A
Labor force (%/)                                      1.8        2.6       1.9     GNP                              Gross
Per                            primry
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population(% of total population)                40        33        31
Life expectancy at birth(years)                        49        51        63
Infant mortality(per 1,000 live births)                96        91        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             23          .         .               Access to safe water
Access to safe water(% of population)                  18        47        74
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   40        42        32   :
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  ..        77       108            -   Central African Republic
Male                                                 ..        84       113                Low-income group
Female                                               ..        69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                          0.51       1.2       1.0       1.1
GrossdomesticinvestmenVGDP                  11.6      12.5       9.0      13.5                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           25.2      16.2      19.5      15.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   2.4      -0.3       3.6       4.4
Gross national savings/GDP .                 7.8       1.5       1.7       3.9
Current account balance/GDP                  -3.7   -11.1       -7.3      -9.6      omestic
Interest payments/GDP                        0.2      0.7        2.0       2.1     Domes                       Investment
Total debtVGDP                              26.0     47.8       92.3      83.4     Savigs                      I
Total debt service/exports                   3.3     21.6       21.5      22.0
Present value of debtVGDP
Present value of debt/exports                  -
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 0.6      0.8      5.2        4.7       4.2          -CentralAfrican Republic
GNP per capita                     -1.9      -1.4     3.5        2.3       2.0                Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       0.2     10.9     38.9        0.6       4.7                             .
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment 1%)
(% of GDP market prices)                                                           155
Agriculture                                 40.2      46.9      52.3      52.6
Industry                                    19.7      15.4      18.8      18.6
Manufacturing                               6.5      8.8       9.2       9.2
Services                                    40.1     37.8       28.9      28.8        s     o 9                        8
Private consumption                         85.2     83.0       85.5      83.9    -soo
General government consumption              12.4      17.3      10.9      11.7                _    GDI    + GDP
Imports of goods and services               34.3     29.1       24.9      25.0
(averageannualgrowt)1977-87  19883-98  1997  1998  Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   1.0      2.8       6.5       4.1    Ica
Industry                                     1.0      0.0       -3.6       3.4    80
Manufacturing                               8.0     -0.8      -7.9       4.7    60
Services                                     0.3      -2.4       7.2       6.4    40
20
Private consumption                          0.5      0.2       -0.9    .  3.0     0                   /       ~
General government consumption               -2.6    -13.5        ..        ..   -2094   95                      9    98
Gross domestic investment                    9.4      3.9      105.1      53.4   -40
Imports of goods and services                0.4      -0.8      31.6       2.4                   Exports   -0Imports
Gross national product                       0.5      0.8        5.7       4.5    _
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



37                                                      ANNEX D
Page 2 of 2
Central African Republic
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987      1997      1998     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                  30
(% change)
Consumer prices                              ..    -7.0        0.6       2.4    20
Implicit GDP deflator                       11.4    -1.2       1.6       1.8       ,\
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                           94 95 r           97    9
Current revenue                                     10,5       7.7       9.0 
Current budget balance                        .      -1.4     -1.0       1.0             -    GDP deflator    a  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..   *11.3       -6.3     -8.5   j
TRADE
11977    1987     1997      1998     Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                  129       155      138    324
Diamonds                                    ..      48        67        59
Coffee                                      ..      21        17         8
Manufactures                                ..
Total imports (cio                                   198       145      150    102
Food                                         ..     28        20        23
Fuel and energy                                     6110     15        14                               I 
Capital goods                               ..      61        20        54
92  93  94  95  96  97  9e
Export price index(1995=100)                  ..
Import prce index(1995=100)                  ..       ..        ..        ,.   -           Exports     r Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      ..         .._..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977    1987      1997      1998     Current account balance to GDP ratio  )
(UISS millions) 
Exports of goods and services               128      197       195      168      o ...                           ,
Imports of goods and services               174      352       250      264      2  921  93  04  94 95 1i      7   as
Resource balance                            -46    -156        -54       -96                  .
Net income                                   -1      -24       -15       -19           .    I
Net current transfers                        ..       46        -4       14            ,
Current account balance                     -19    -134        -73      -101    .             
(before capital grants)
Financing items (net)                        24      118        55       60    -12
Changes in net reserves                      -5       16        18       41    .,4
Memo:
Reserves including gold(US$ millions)        26       91       186      137
Conversion rate(DEC, local/lUS$)           245.7   300.5      583.7    590.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        132      579       925      881
IBRD                                        0        0         0        0
IDA                                        11      126       426      425
Total debt service                            4       44        42       37         F: 255
IBRD                                        0        0         0        0
IDA                                         0        1        11       12
B: 425
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            ..       ..        ..        ..
Official creditors                         12       83        ..
Private creditors                          10       -1
Foreign direct investment                   ..
Portfolio equity                           ..       ..        ..        ..           E: 205
World Bank program                                                                              D:15   C:11
Commitments                                 0       15         0        0
Disbursements                               1       29         6        3    A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Principal repayments                        0        0         8        9    B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Net flows                                   1       29        -2       -B    C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Interest payments                           0        1         3        3   _
Net transfers                               1       28        -5        -9
Development Economics                                                                                           11124199



38                                                  ANNEX E
Page 1 of 3
Central African Republic - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                 Estimate              Projected
Indicator                1994     1995      1996     1997     1998     1999    2000    2001       2002
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domesticproduct                      100      100      100       100      100      100      100      100      100
Agriculturea                              43       44        49       49       49       49       49       49        50
Industrya                                 21       20        19       18       17       17       17       17        18
Servicesa                                 31       31        30       27       27       24       25       24        23
Total Consumption                           94       94       99        96       96       94       92       91       91
Gross domestic fixed                        12       14        3         9       13       13       13       14        14
investment
Government investment                       7       10        2        5       10        9        9         9        9
Private investment                          5        3        2        4        4        4        4         5        5
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFSj'                             24       20       17       20        16       17       19       19        19
Imports (GNFS)                              30       28       21        25       25       24       25       24       24
Gross domestic savings                       6        6         1        4        4        6        8        9        9
Gross national saving                       6        6        -I        2        4        7        8        9        9
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                     853     1122     1070      1002     1056     1192    1289      1374     1463
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per                 360      350      310      320       300      320      340      360      380
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1987
prices)
Gross domestic product at               4.9%     7.2%    -4.1%      5.2%     4.7%     5.0%     5.2%     4.0%     4.0%
market prices
GrossDomesticIncome                    -3.1%     7.1%    -6.8%    -0.6%      1.0%     6.5%     7.2%     4.1%     4.0%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%/., calculated
from 1987 prices)
Grossdomesticproductat                  2.7%     5.0%    -6.1%      3.0%     2.5%     2.8%     3.0%     1.8%      1.8%
market prices
Total consumption                     -10.4%     3.4%    -3.7%    -1.5%      1.6%     1.5%     2.7%     0.8%      1.2%
Private consumption                    -2.4%    -0.4%     5.5%    -3.0%      0.9%     1.8%     2.3%     0.7%     0.8%
(Continued)
a. GDP components are estimated at factor cost



39                                                ANNEX E
Page 2 of 3
Central African Republic - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                Estimate              Projected
Indicator               1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Balance of Payments
(US$rn)
Exports (GNFSY                           205     229      185      195      168      206      244      264     284
Merchandise FOB                        162     179      142      155      138      169      205     224      243
Imports (GNFSY                          253      311      225      250     264      288      317      335      358
Merchandise FOB                        151     179      125      145      150      165      185      198     215
Resource balance                         -49      -82     -40      -54      -96      -82      -74      -71      -75
Net current transfers                     22       22       -2      -4       14       19       18       16       18
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                   15       -8     -20      -25      -11       -5       -2       -7       -4
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct               -13        4       12      -5        7        7        9        8        8
investment
Long-term loans (net)                     25       11      -2      -24      -30      -11       -9       -7       -7
Official                                 38        7      -14     -16      -17      -13      -12      -11      -12
Private                                 -13       4        12      -8      -13        2        3        4        5
Other capital (net, including             45        4      30       36       -7       23       32       33       19
errors and omissions)
Change in reserved                       -72     -11      -20       18       41      -14      -30      -28      -16
Memorandum items
Resource balance(% of                   -5.7%    -7.3%    -3.7%    -5.4%    -9.1%    -6.9%    -5.7%    -5.2%    -5.1%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
1987 prices)
Merchandiseexports                    14.3%     5.3%   -11.9%    26.4%     3.1%    10.4%     8.6%     5.7%    5.3%
(FOB)
Primary                               18.2%    4.3%   -17.3%    39.1%     2.7%    12.5%    10.1%    6.5%     6.0%
Manufactures                             ..
Merchandise imports                   -8.0%     9.3%   -32.6%    20.1%    -1.2%     7.2%     8.7%     4.2%     5.8%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices4
Current revenues                           7        9       6        8        9       10       II       11       11
Current expenditures                      12       10       9        9        8        8        7        7        8
(Continued)



40                                                ANNEX E
Page 3 of 3
Central African Republic - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                Estimate              Projected
Indicator               1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Current account surplus (+)              -5       -1       -3      -1        1        2        3       4        4
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                      10       10        2       5       10        9        9       9        9
Foreign financing                         7        7        0       2        6        5        4       4        4
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market                24       22       23      20       16       16       18       18      18
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                         78        5        5       -8     -16       11       16       11       7
Private sector credit growth /           35    -374        -1      -33      46       45       64      24      300
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1987 =100)
Merchandise export price                101      106       96      83       72       79       89      92       95
index
Merchandiseimportprice                  125      135      141     135      141      146      150      154     158
index
Merchandise terms of trade               81       79       68      61       51       54       59      60       60
index
Real exchange rate                       53       63       64      62       61       62       63      64       64
(US$/LCUf
Real interest rates
Consumer price index                  24.5%    19.2%    4.4%     0.6%     2.4%     2.4%    2.6%     3.2%     2.5%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                          22.8%    10.3%     1.9%    1.6%     1.8%     2.2%    2.4%     2.5%     2.5%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating this fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the government to which the data refer.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Central African Republic
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US5 Millions                  and actual                 Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                           disbursements a/        Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.       Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 23
Active Projects
CF-PE-464       1991   GOVT. OF CAR                      ENT REHAB & DEVELOP                       0.00       11.30        0.00          7.53        5.86        0.00       U          U
Total                                                                                              0.00       11.30        0.00          7.53        5.86        0.00
Active Projects       Clse2   Pojct             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                    8.24              402.21              410.45
of which has been repaid:                   0.00               14.95               14.95
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   11.30              365.36              376.66
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                00.00                 .00                                                                                                -
Total Undisbursed                :                 7.53                 .12                7.65
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated 11/22/99



42                                      ANNEX G
Central African Republic - Bank Group Program Summary, FY 2000-2002
Proposed IBRD/IDA Base-Case Lending Program, FY 2000-2002a
Strategic rewardsb  Implementation'
FY           Project                                   US$(M)        (H/IML)         risks (H/A/L)
2000 FISCAL CONSOLIDATION ADJUSTMENT CREDIT    20.0                   H                     H
POLICY SUPPORT PROJ.                                 5.0        H                      H
Subtotal                              25.0
Total FY 2000-2002                    25.0
a. This table presents the proposed program for the next three fiscal years.
b. For each project, indicate whether the strategic rewards and implementation risks are expected to be high (H),
moderate (M), or low (L).
Generated on 11/22/99



43                            ANNEX H
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Time taken to prepare:         14 months
Project prepared by:           Government and IDA
Appraisal:                     November 1999
Negotiations:                  November 15-17, 1999
Board Presentation:            December 16, 1999
Closing date:                  June 30, 2001



