                             Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                       Report No: 27447

                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (IDA-33050)

                                 ON A

                                CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.0 MILLION

                                TO THE

                      CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC

                  FOR A FISCAL CONSOLIDATION CREDIT




                            December 30, 2003




POVERTY REDUCTION AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT (AFTP3)
AFRICA REGION

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 15, 2003)

                             Currency Unit = CFAF
                                    CFAF 1 = US$ 0.001853
                                      US$ 1 = 539.6

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1-    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB       African Development Bank
BEAC       Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (Central Bank)
CAR        Central African Republic
CFAF       CFA Franc
CTP-PAS    Comité Technique Permanent de Suivi du Programme d'Ajustement Structurel
ENERCA     Energie de Centrafrique (Power company)
EU         European Union
FCC        Fiscal Consolidation Credit
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
IDA        International Development Association
IMF        International Monetary Fund
LICUS      Low-Income Countries Under Stress
OED        Operations Evaluations Department
MINURCA    Mission des Nations Unies pour la République Centrafricaine
PETROCA    Compagnie des Pétroles de Centrafrique
PSP        Policy Support Project
PRGF       Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
SDR        Special Drawing Rights
SMP        Staff Monitored Program
SOCATEL    Société Centrafricaine de Télécommunications
SOCOCA     Société de Coton de Centrafrique
SODECA     Société de Distribution d'Eau de Centrafrique
TSSN       Transitional Support Strategy Note
UN         United Nations
UNDP       United Nations Development Program



                            Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo
                         Country Director:       Ali M. Khadr
                          Sector Manager:        Cadman A. Mills
                       Task Team Leader:         Abdoulaye Seck

                             CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
                              CAR - Fiscal Consolidation Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            21
Annex 8. Government's Contribution                                               24
Annex 9. QAG Report                                                              36

Project ID: P060092                                                  Project Name: CAR - Fiscal Consolidation Credit
Team Leader: Abdoulaye Seck                                          TL Unit: AFTP3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: CAR - Fiscal Consolidation Credit                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-33050
   Country/Department: CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                           Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (25%); Crops (25%); General
                            finance sector (25%); Roads and highways (13%); General industry
                            and trade sector (12%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Tax policy
                            and administration (S); Public expenditure, financial management
                            and procurement (S); Regulation and competition policy (S); Legal
                            institutions for a market economy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/10/1998                                     Effective: 12/15/1998                01/28/2000
     Appraisal: 10/14/1999                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/16/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Ali Khadr                                      Serge Mikhailof
Sector Manager:                 Cadman A. Mills                                Luca Barbone
Team Leader at ICR:             Abdoulaye Seck                                 Slaheddine Khenissi
ICR Primary Author:             Abdoulaye Seck


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1 The development objective of the Fiscal Consolidation Credit (FCC) was to help the State
carry out its basic functions in a post-conflict context, with an immediate objective of timely
payment of wages to government employees and the military. The objective was consistent with
the Government's main development objective ­ articulated in the May 1998 Policy Framework
Paper (PFP) ­ which was to create the conditions for civil peace and sustainable development.
Measures supported by the Credit aimed at fiscal consolidation and included: (i)
revenue-enhancing measures and reforms in public expenditure management for more efficient
and transparent spending; (ii) the privatization of five key banks and enterprises to improve their
fiscal impact through reduced losses and subsidies.

3.1.2 The FCC in the amount of SDR14.4 million (US$20 million equivalent) was approved by
the Executive Directors on December 16, 1999, with an initial closing date on June 30, 2001.
The first of three tranches of the credit, amounting to SDR6.5 million (US$9 million), was
released on January 28, 2000, upon effectiveness. The second tranche of SDR3.6 million (US$5
million) was released on December 22, 2000 after a partial waiver on one condition related to
financial transfers to the Road Fund. In June 2001, the Bank agreed to the authorities' request to
extend the FCC by two years, to June 30, 2003.         In April 2002, the Executive Directors also
approved an amendment of the conditions for the release of the remaining floating tranche of
SDR4.3 million (US$6 million), to take into account the adoption of a new institutional
framework to enhance the privatization prospects of the electricity and telecommunications
companies, and the impact of the deteriorating security conditions in the country. In June 2003,
arrears to the Bank and lack of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework led to the closing of the
credit and the cancellation of the undisbursed balance of SDR4.3 million.

Context

3.1.3 The FCC was part of a multifaceted international effort to consolidate CAR's political and
security condition following four military mutinies in 1996-1997. The mutinies had a severe and
lasting impact on the economy and the social situation. International mediation led to the Bangui
Agreement of January 1997, which called for: (i) national reconciliation; (ii) the restructuring of
the military; and (iii) an economic and public finance program with the Bretton Woods
Institutions. A National Reconciliation Conference took place in February/March 1998.            A
cease-fire arrangement was enforced until mid-April 1998 by an Inter-African Mission to Monitor
the Implementation of the Bangui Agreements (MISAB), and from mid-April 1998 to early 2000
by a United Nations Peacekeeping operation (MINURCA). A disarmament program, and
restructuring of the defense and security forces, was implemented with the support of UNDP.

3.1.4 The economic reform program under the Bangui Agreements started in the spring of 1998
when CAR reached an agreement with the Bretton Wood institutions on a 1998-2000 Policy
Framework Paper (PFP).        A donors' meeting organized by the Bank in June 1998 indicated
general support for the program under the PFP. The Fund's Executive Board approved an
Extended Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) on July 20, 1998. The Paris Club extended debt
relief on Naples terms on September 25, 1998. It was in that context that the Bank started the


                                                - 2 -

preparation of a Structural Adjustment Credit whose appraisal hinged on the implementation of
key economic reforms, especially the privatization of petroleum products imports and distribution.



3.2 Revised Objective:

         The   original   development     objective    remained   unchanged      throughout project
implementation.     This was certainly a shortcoming in the credit supervision as it became
increasingly clear that the development objective would not be achieved and a retrofitting of the
operation was needed. The Bank amended the conditions of the third tranche release - as
described below - but that came too late and was still ambitious.

3.3 Original Components:

         The project had two components: (i) a public financial management component which
aimed at improving revenue collection, introducing more efficient and transparent spending
management, ensuring the regular payment of salaries, and gradually settling domestic and
external arrears; and (ii) a public enterprises reform component which aimed at reducing losses of
and subsidies to five public enterprises.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1 Components were not modified during the implementation phase. However, after a
reassessment of market conditions in the water, electricity and telecom sectors, tranche release
conditions pertaining to the public enterprises component were amended in April 2002. The
purpose of the amendment was to increase the managerial and operational efficiency of the
utilities while their privatization was being completed. The amendment sought also to merge the
water and electricity companies ­ instead of working with a separate electricity company as
envisaged in the original credit ­ to enhance the prospects for their privatization.

Design

3.4.2 The FCC was designed as a multi-tranche structural adjustment credit to maintain Bank
leverage and the pressure for reform, and to respond to the constraints of the cash management
program agreed with the IMF under the ESAF. It was also intended to strengthen the position of
reformers by signaling a sustained support by the Bank, thus reducing the risk of backtracking.
While the choice of the lending instrument appears to have been appropriate, the policy content
was not commensurate with the appetite for reform and weak implementation capacity in the
Central African Republic (CAR). The Bank had recognized that past adjustment operations in the
CAR overestimated the Government's commitment to reform and its implementation capacity. In
the preliminary stage of credit preparation, it sought to focus on a limited number of measures
aimed at fiscal consolidation, factoring in capacity constraints, and relying on critical up-front
actions demonstrating commitment to reform.

3.4.3 However, during further project preparation, the policy content of the FCC expanded
rapidly as the Bank sought to balance the goal of a modest and doable reform program with the


                                                  - 3 -

need to address a dismal fiscal situation and assuring that there was a reasonable prospect for
lasting policy reform. Members of the OC meeting held on June 3, 1998 emphasized their
concerns over the governance issue and urged IDA not begin to lend until there was some
demonstration that the issue was being addressed. Following a pre-identification mission in
September 1998, the team leader wondered if, by itself, the privatization of petroleum distribution
was worth a first tranche of the proposed credit, and suggested considering actions in the
diamonds and forestry sector to strengthen the fiscal base. As a result of these concerns, the ROC
package included thirteen conditions for the release of the second tranche of the proposed credit.
The expansion in policy content also occurred in the form of significant cross-conditionalities:
several conditionalities for ESAF review were by and large the same as the upfront actions
required by the Bank for the appraisal of the FCC.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

        The project was reviewed in QEA3 (1999) and received an overall satisfactory rating for
quality at entry. Among the factors that may have justified that rating was the collaborative work
with the IMF and the UN to bolster the restoration of stability in the CAR, and the alignment with
country priorities as stated in the 1998 PFP. However, a QAG supervision panel in 2002 rightly
felt that given the country's political and social instability and weak implementation capacity, the
overall design of the operation at entry had been overly ambitious. The QAG panel also noted the
lack of a clearly defined macroeconomic framework and quantitative fiscal targets as the ESAF
was off-track with no clear indication of when an agreement could be reached with the IMF. The
QAG panel felt these initial handicaps had not been overcome during implementation and had
hampered credit performance.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

        In terms of achievement of the development objectives, the outcome of the credit is rated
as unsatisfactory. The Government of CAR is still not adequately carrying out its basic functions.
Notably, it has continued to accumulate salary arrears to government employees, the military and
external creditors. CAR has also remained unstable throughout project implementation. In the fall
of 2000, public workers went on strike to protest the accumulation of salary arrears. There was
growing civil unrest, and in May 2001, an attempted coup was led by a former head of State,
General Andre Kolingba. In November 2001, there was another coup attempt, this time led by
former Army Chief General Francois Bozize.          When the latter coup attempt was defeated with
the support of troops from Libya, General Bozize fled to Chad from where he launched
counterattacks. After a first unsuccesful assault in October 2002, his troops entered Bangui on
March 15, 2003, and seized control from President Patasse. General Bozize is now the new
self-proclaimed President of CAR. To a large extent, CAR has come full circle its pre-FCC
situation, emerging from violent conflict, public finances in dire straits, and with a fragile stability
maintained with the support of an international peacekeeping force (CEMAC and France).




                                                 - 4 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1 Outputs will be assessed on the basis of compliance with key credit conditionalities
(underlined items in the sections below), including the maintenance of an appropriate
macroeconomic framework.

Macroeconomic Framework

4.2.2 Overall, macroeconomic management was not satisfactory throughout credit preparation
and implementation. The authorities often came short of their revenue targets under the programs
agreed with the IMF, and turned to costly bank financing and arrears accumulation to make up for
large fiscal deficits. The IMF's Executive Board approved a three-year arrangement under the
ESAF in July 1998.        The mid-term review under the first annual ESAF arrangement was
completed only in June 1999, thus allowing the Bank to move forward with the appraisal of the
FCC. However, in late 1999, discussions with IMF staff on a second arrangement under the
PRGF (which replaced the ESAF) were not concluded because of revenue shortfalls and delays in
implementing key prior action (privatization of PETROCA, and putting in place a new formula for
setting cotton producer prices). The shortfall in revenue reflected the persistent evasion of
customs duties as well as a large-scale fraud on the sales of tax-free petroleum products. In
addition, the authorities did not raise the retail prices of petroleum products to account for the
sharp increase in oil import costs.

4.2.3 With the risk that the Board presentation of the FCC could be delayed, the authorities
took significant measures, including changes in the management of the customs department,
increases in the retail prices of petroleum products, and the initiation of judicial proceedings
against those involved in the fraud of petroleum products. On the basis of those measures, the
IMF provided a Memorandum in support of Board presentation of the FCC in December 2000.
However, it took one year before the IMF Board approved the second-year arrangement under
the PRGF in January 2001. In May 2001, the first review of the PRGF was not completed due to
revenue shortfalls. After a coup attempt in late May 2001, the PRGF was cancelled. Discussions
with the IMF resumed in October 2001 when the authorities agreed with IMF staff on a six-month
staff-monitored program (SMP). The successful completion of the SMP in June 2002 led to an
agreement with the IMF on a three-year program to be supported by a Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF). The presentation of the PRGF scheduled for November 2002 was
cancelled after a coup attempt in late October 2002.         Thereafter, plans to proceed with a
disbursing IMF program remained very tentative, with the focus by Fund staff being to conclude
the (by now long-overdue) Article IV consultation. In March 2003, discussions with the CAR
authorities to conclude the Article IV discussions were again overtaken by a coup.

Public Finances

4.2.4 Increased transparency and accountability in public financial management through the
extensive reform program supported by the Fund's ESAF. Some measures were implemented on
fiscal management although the overall picture remains bleak. On revenue management, all tax
and non-tax revenue were brought under the sole authority of the Ministry of Finance and Budget.
In January 2001, the authorities replaced the turnover tax with a value added tax at a single rate


                                                - 5 -

of 18 percent, and introduced a single and comprehensive tax for small businesses.             The
authorities also introduced a single tax identification number to facilitate the monitoring of
taxpayers. In October 2001, they completed an overhaul of the tax administration management
structure, including customs.     On public expenditure management, off-budget spending was
progressively phased out, and special commercial bank accounts of ministries were closed. Any
deviation from the approved budget in the course of the year had to be approved by the National
Assembly.     The Treasury was tasked with preparing a monthly and a quarterly cash-flow
management plan to keep spending in line with the approved budget and available resources.

4.2.5 Meet commitments to increase expenditure in education and health. This conditionality
was not fulfilled. Under the 2001 budget law, the authorities raised the budget allocations to the
health and education sectors by 25.6 percent in nominal terms while keeping the allocation for
defense constant. The latter measure was symbolically significant in view of the security situation
in the country. However, it was not translated into an increase in actual expenditures. A Bank
mission in March 2003 found that actual government spending on education had declined in
nominal terms by 30 percent since 2000, with a decline of 97 percent in capital expenditures and 5
percent in recurrent spending.

4.2.6    No accumulation of additional salary arrears during the period between March 31, 1999
and March 31, 2000. This specific condition was fulfilled, allowing the release of the second
tranche of the credit. However, the government accumulated new salary arrears as early as June
2000 (before the release of the second tranche in December 2000). Overall, salary arrears remain
a major issue in CAR.

4.2.7    Submission to IDA of an inventory of special tax exemptions granted to mining and
logging operations from January 1, 1995 to December 31, 1998, and refraining from granting new
special tax exemptions from the date of effectiveness. The authorities provided an inventory which
showed that during that period, two logging companies and one mining company had been
granted special tax exemptions.      Since then, these exemptions have either expired or been
suspended. No further special tax exemption has been granted since effectiveness and December
2000, at the time of the release of the second tranche of the FCC. However, in 2003, an audit of
the forestry sectors revealed that compliance with tax law was still low among logging companies.


Public Enterprises Reform

4.2.8    Settlements of the obligations of PETROCA (the parastatal in charge of the import,
storage and distribution of petroleum products) to the Road Fund, due in 1999. The rationale
was to improve the performance of PETROCA and increase resources to the Road Fund, and
avoiding public transfers from the central budget for road maintenance. The condition was not
met as only 85 % of the obligations were settled, largely due to factors over which the
Government had no control: about 30 thousands tons of petroleum product owned by CAR and
stored in Kinshasa (DRC) were reportedly stolen in June 2000.            The loss of these stocks
prevented the complete fulfillment of the condition. With the privatization of PETROCA and the
regular transfers of resources from the private distributors to the Road Fund, a new issue is the



                                                - 6 -

recurrent withdrawals from the Road Fund by the government to finance other expenditures.

4.2.9    Effective privatization of PETROCA and incorporation of SOGAL (the private company
which was to take over from PETROCA the functions of import and storage of petroleum
products).   The import, storage and distribution of petroleum products are now completely
privatized, which is a major achievement towards a long-sought reform.                SOGAL was
incorporated on June 16, 1999, with a minority government equity participation of 10 percent.

4.2.10   Privatization of two commercial Banks, BICA and UBAC. These two banks were
privatized in 1999 but their situations remain difficult.     BICA had non-performing credits
accounting for 40% of its portfolio at end-June 2003. Most of the non-performing portfolio was
built up after the privatization. The difficult political and economic situation has contributed to
this situation, but poor management of the bank did play a role. The 2002 COBAC (Banking
supervision commission) audit report stresses inadequate procedures for loan approval, lack of
internal control, and poor accounting procedures.      While the business community in Bangui has
observed that the management of UBAC (now CBCA) has improved after the privatization, it
also had significant non-performing credits, equivalent to 44% of its portfolio at end-June 2003.

4.2.11Submission of a realistic cotton sector financing plan for the 1999-2000 campaign,
including appropriate producer prices and closing of one or more inefficient ginning plants,
without recourse to medium term credit from the banking sector. In June 1998, the authorities
increased the producer price for 1998/1999 from CFAF155 to CFAF170/kg. With the prevailing
world prices, SOCOCA, the cotton parastatal, would have lost CFAF3 billion, which it could only
finance with bank credits guaranteed by the Government. This would have jeopardized the
restructuring of the banks, and the fiscal picture in 1999. The authorities introduced a mechanism
for the determination of producer prices with a link to international prices, but they also made
provision for a guaranteed price based on producers' cost, thus making the new mechanism
ineffective in addressing a drop in international price. The authorities also closed one ginning
plant but they reversed their decision in 2000. In addition, the recourse to medium term credit has
not been discontinued, and it is a major burden on the commercial banks.

4.2.12 Approval by the Government of the strategy for the electricity sector, submission of the
revised electricity code to Parliament, and bringing ENERCA to the point of lease. In December
1999, the authorities selected an international advisor for the privatization of ENERCA, and in
2000, they pre-qualified four international firms. In June 2000, they submitted to the Bank a draft
Electricity Code and a draft Letter of Development Policy for the Electricity Sector. However,
changed circumstances and a new approach to the privatization of the electricity and water sector
now require that these documents be substantially revised.


4.2.13 Preparation of a regulatory framework for the water and telecommunications sectors, and
creation of an autonomous regulatory body for the water, electricity and telecommunications
sectors. There was some progress in the telecommunications sector. The Government prepared a
Letter of Development Policy for the Telecommunications sector which the Bank found
satisfactory. The sector has been also opened to competition with the granting of licenses to five
private cellular phone operators, two of which have started activities. The autonomous regulatory


                                                 - 7 -

body is not in place yet.

4.2.14 In April 2002, an amendment of the floating tranche conditions was proposed, as the
Government had recognized that the completion of the public enterprise reforms would take time
and thus required that measures be put in place to protect the assets of the electricity and
telecommunications companies and increase their efficiency during the privatization process. The
authorities agreed with the Bank on a new, pragmatic approach to privatization in light of the very
difficult country circumstances.

4.2.15 The Government signed a management contract for SOCATEL (the telecommunications
company) to: (i) safeguard financial and physical assets of the company prior to its privatization;
(ii) strengthen billing and collection; (iii) improve technical efficiency and financial viability; and
(iv) set performance targets, as well as a monitoring and evaluation framework. The effectiveness
of the management contract has been limited by the continuous arrears buildup from the State and
other public agencies/officials, as well as fraud.

4.2.16 The authorities also took seven specific up-front measures relating to the energy sector: (i)
they approved a Letter of Development Policy for the electricity sector; (ii) they finalized terms of
reference and issued tender documents for the appointment of an Independent Monitoring Expert
for the independent and commercial operation of ENERCA; (iii) they selected the Consultant for
the establishment of a multisectoral regulatory body; (iv) they approved a power theft reduction
plan; (v) they approved ceilings on electricity benefits for the staff of ENERCA; (vi) they issued
tender documents for the management contract for ENERCA; and (vii) they approved the
proposal to merge the water and electricity companies.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

         Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

         Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         The institutional development impact is uneven between sectors and is rated negligible
overall. While there was some progress in public finance management with the introduction of a
quarterly cash-flow plan, the VAT, and more transparent public spending, the problem of salary
arrears resurfaced and political instablity negated all the achievements. The private sector is now
involved in the telecommunications sectors and the distribution of petroleum products, although
for the latter there remains scope for greater liberalization. There has been limited progress in
establishing an autonomous multisectoral regulatory body.




                                                  - 8 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1 Actual developments in the security, socio-political and macroeconomic environments
contrast sharply with the frameworks envisioned during the appraisal of the FCC in 1999 (see
Table 1 below). Since mid-2000, CAR has been buffeted by regional instability, domestic civil
unrest and military mutinies; and domestic and international oil crisis and other terms of trade
shocks. As described in the section on the outcome of the credit, the security conditions proved
more difficult than foreseen.

                           Table 1: Macroeconomic Environment: Projection and Outcome
                              1999                     2000                       2001                 2002
                           FCC        Actual         FCC        Actual         FCC       Actual      FCC    Actual
Terms of Trade               1.6           -3         9.3         -4.8          1.7       -10.7         0    -2.7
GDP Growth                     5          3.4         5.2           2.6            4        1.5         4       1

Source: IMF draft Staff report for Actual figures and Report of the President for the FCC (P-7348-CA)

5.1.2 The seizure in DRC of about 30,000 tons of petroleum products imported by CAR and the
disruption of river transit due to the civil war in the Equator Province of DRC created a domestic
oil supply crisis. The Government of the CAR (GOCAR) responded to this crisis by turning to
road transport from the Port of Douala (Cameroon) to import petroleum products, resulting in a
doubling of transport costs (see Table 2).

                                Table 2: Retail Prices of Kerosene (CFAF per liter)
                                                          Dec-99         Sep-00        Oct-00      1-May
          Import cost at seaport 1/                          116.5         241.4        241.4        165
          Transportation costs 1/                             62.2           125          125        140
          Distribution costs and margin 2/                    36.1            66           66        184
          Costs in Bangui                                    214.8         432.4        432.4        489
          Tax and duties/equalization                         45.2        -172.4        -82.4       -139


          Retail price in Bangui                              260            260          350        350

          Source: IMF, Staff Report EBS/00/289 and the Authorities, Privatization Committee.
            1/ Matadi (DRC) for December 1999, and Douala (Cameroon) from September 2000 onward.
            2/ The distribution of petroleum product is privatized since January 2001.

5.1.3 The oil supply crisis in 2000 was compounded by the depreciation of the CFAF by 16
percent against the dollar and a 33 percent increase in the international oil prices. The shortage
paralyzed economic activity and government's revenue collection suffered as a result of the
slowing economy as well as from the temporary freeze of domestic retail prices of petroleum
products below their cost price (see Table 2). The GOCAR initially resisted a pass-through of the
increased supply costs into domestic prices. However, in the face of a continuing erosion of
petroleum revenues, the GOCAR raised the retail prices of petroleum products by 44 percent for
diesel fuel, and 35 percent for kerosene and gasoline in October 2000. Poor households were




                                                       - 9 -

severely hit by the increase in the price of kerosene ­ the product they most commonly use for
cooking and lighting.

5.1.4 In addition to an increase in international oil prices in 2000-2001, the prices of CAR's
main export products (diamonds, timber, cotton and coffee) substantially declined in 2000-2002.
Terms of trade have deteriorated by a cumulative 25.0 percent since the appraisal of the FCC,
against the initial program estimate of +14.0 percent. The cotton price has declined by about 30
percent since September 2000, aggravating the difficulties of the cotton sector in CAR, with
SOCOCA incurring large deficits. The coffee price in December 2001 was half the level in
November 1999, the time of appraisal of the FCC, and currently is down by 44.3 percent
compared to the 1999 level.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

         During the life of this project, government commitment to the privatization of petroleum
products distribution was often in doubt. Following the severe shortage of petroleum products
after the loss of stocks in DRC in 1999, Libya promised an in-kind grant of 55,000 tons of
petroleum products. On June 16, 1999, the Government passed a decree establishing a committee
to manage in-kind grants of petroleum products. The measure threatened to reverse the
privatization process, as the committee would function in place of, or at least in parallel to, the
private operators that were preparing to replace PETROCA. The decree also seemed to open the
door to dual prices of petroleum products, which would have been another blow to the
privatization of petroleum distribution. In addition, retail prices for oil remained unchanged
during the summer, which entailed loss of revenue, unprofitable operations and further delays in
the privatization process. Fortunately, the authorities did not renew the decree after it expired in
September 1999. They secured a lasting arrangement with local businessmen to import petroleum
products via Cameroon, a more expensive but safer route than the river route. In October 1999,
they also took the politically difficult decision to raise the retail prices of petroleum products.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable.

5.4 Costs and financing:

         The aggregate financing of the three-year program discussed in the donors' meeting in
June 1998 was not enough to fully fund the program. The financing for 1998 factored in
proceeds of the privatization of PETROCA and SOCATEL, and disbursement from multilateral
institutions, including the Bank and the African Development Bank (AfDB). The financing plan
implied tight sequence of domestic actions and budget support operations. These proved to be
completely unrealistic. The privatization of the two utilities could not be completed by December
1998. AfDB financing became increasingly uncertain as a quick-disbursing operation hinged on
the clearance of AfDB arrears by mid-November 1998, which CAR could not do without the
resources it expected from the proposed IDA credit. The tight financing situation and the related
issue of negative net transfers had led to the widespread perception that the IMF and the Bank
were primarily interested in repaying arrears to external creditors, and it had weakened the



                                                    - 10 -

position of those supporting reforms. The concept note stressed that risk but the issue remained
throughout program implementation.



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         The development objectives were not achieved, which explains the overall sustaibaility
rating of "unlikely". However, the sustainability of some achievements in petroleum product
distribution and telecommunications sectors is likely. The privatization of the petroleum sector
distribution was a major factor to the good revenue performance in 2002. Added to the expertise
brought by TOTAL, a global company, a reversal is unlikely. Reforms in the cellular segment of
the telecommunications sectors are also likely to hold because of broad public support: the two
active private cellular phone operators are more efficient than the public operator and they were
able to supply unmet demand. In the area of public finance management, the government has
further deepened the diagnosis of key issues in 2002 with the support of the EU, and a follow-up
institutional/capacity building operation is under preparation, again with EU financing. France has
also stepped in with a technical assistance project to financial administrations.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:



7.1.1 Overall Bank performance in designing the credit was unsatisfactory. On one hand, the
Bank rightly joined an international compact with the IMF and UN to help stabilize CAR which
was emerging from a series of military mutinies. The Bank recognized that the difficult
environment should not deter assistance, and that failure to act would prove very costly in the
future. This view has been confirmed recently with the findings of the LICUS task force. The
development objectives under the credit were also consistent with the government's own
development priorities. On the other hand, the design of the operation was overly ambitious for a
LICUS-type country with very weak implementation capacity and political and social instability.

7.1.2 Bank support to Government in the preparation of the reforms, particularly in the energy
sector, was not timely. The Government justified the delay in privatizing ENERCA by the slow
response of the Bank on specific technical questions, and the late availability of the PHRD grant
to the energy sector. Credit preparation was constrained by limited knowledge and resources. The
concept paper did however make a candid assessment, stressing the gaps in coverage of the
mining and forestry sectors, legal and regulatory reform, and management of public expenditure.
Lastly, there was no staff continuity as the credit has had three different task team leaders.




                                                  - 11 -

7.2 Supervision:

        Bank performance during supervision was unsatisfactory. In part due to continued
political instability, the task team was unable to conduct regular supervision missions in order to
maintain continuity in the policy dialogue. The absence of specific macroeconomic targets has also
hindered the quality of supervision. Adequacy of supervision inputs and processes, as well as
supervision of fiduciary/safeguard aspects were marginal. Supervision mission sometimes did not
include enough expertise, reaching the point of one-man missions. In addition, they lacked
coherence (e.g., different components of the program were supervised at different times). Advice
provided by Bank to the Government was not timely and did not recognize the complexities,
particularly with regard to the privatization component.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

        The Bank's overall performance is rated unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

        Government performance during preparation was unsatisfactory. Progress in implementing
the conditions for appraisal and Board presentation were unduly slow, even after taking into
account capacity constraints. Government ownership of some reforms, notably the distribution of
petroleum products, was also questionable.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

        The overall performance of the Government during FCC implementation was
unsatisfactory. Implementation was normally supervised by an Inter-ministerial Committee for the
Adjustment Program chaired by the Prime Minister, and managed by a Technical Committee in
which all ministries concerned with the implementation of the program were represented. The
CTP-PAS, a monitoring unit in the ministry of finances assumed the role of secretariat of the
Technical Committee. In practice, the Inter-ministerial Committee has not met frequently and the
CTP-PAS took the lead in monitoring project implementation. At first, CTP-PAS issued a
monthly report on the execution of the fiscal program and a quarterly report on the
implementation of structural reforms, but it subsequently discontinued the reporting. CTP-PAS's
own performance was affected by a high turnover of its management, as it has had four managers
since 1999.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

        See Section 7.5.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

        Overall Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory.




                                                - 12 -

8. Lessons Learned


8.1     The credit had the potential to be an effective instrument in an emergency, post-conflict
situation, for improving the provision of government services, stimulating private sector
development, and generally enhancing the prospects for national reconciliation. The economic,
political and social returns from such an investment in a post-conflict context are considerable.
However to be effective, the design of the operation would have needed to be more sensitive to
the lack of capacity in such situation. An operaton underpinned by more focused and less
ambitious reform program with adequate technical assistance for building implementation capacity
would have been more appropriate and made supervision more focused. Some important lessons
learned include the following:

8.1.1 When faced with a strong political/reputational pressure to move in a difficult and poor
security environment, the Bank should also consider the effectiveness and sustainability of its
budgetary assistance, both factors bearing higher reputational risks in the medium to long term.
The right approach is to state clearly that the Bank has endorsed the LICUS principles, and it is
committed to stay engaged even in most difficult circumstances.            However, for budgetary
support, four factors should be taken into account: (i) a sound macroeconomic framework should
be in place; (ii) there should be some prior investment in knowledge so as to design a relevant and
realistic reform program; (iii) Bank support should be part of a broader international assistance
package, with most donors endorsing a common platform; (iv) a candid assessment of the internal
process in place to address unrest, including the quality of the national dialogue and reconciliation
efforts, should be undertaken. In addition, a comprehensive plan for security reform should be
implemented.

8.1.2 For a country like CAR emerging from a devastating conflict, with disruptions in
administrative capacity and a distressed economy, the capacity to raise domestic revenue is most
likely limited in the short-term, and therefore balance of payments support is needed.             In
establishing the country macroeconomic framework, revenue should be realistically estimated and
there should be positive net transfers.

8.1.3 Preparation of relevant and good quality Economic and Sector Work (ESW) and policy
notes is a critical prerequisite for a meaningful policy dialogue with the government and
preparation of loans/credits.

8.1.4 Privatization of public enterprises and utilities involves complicated processes and requires
careful sequencing. In designing an adjustment operation, much more thought needs to be given
to the country's economic and political conditions, and its ability to implement difficult and
complex reform measures.

8.1.5 For LICUS-type countries such CAR, the focus of the Bank assistance should be on
building capacity in the government to implement reforms and improve delivery of services.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



                                                - 13 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Area             Objective               Measures and Actions                                                                             Status
Public Finance
Revenue          Increase revenue in a   Refrain from granting special tax exemptions to logging and mining operations.                   Unmet
                 transparent and
                 efficient manner
                                         Submit to IDA an inventory of special tax exemptions between January 1, 1995 and December        Done (2000)
                                         31, 1998 to logging and mining operations.
                                         Institute minimum turnover tax for diamond-purchasing bureaus                                    Done
                                         Replace turnover taxation with value added tax                                                   Done (2001)
                                         Introduce broad-based licensing for small-scale taxpayers                                        Done (2000)
Expenditure      Improve prospects for   No additional salary arrears during the 12 months preceding April 1, 2000                        Done
                 civil peace
                 Improve road
                 maintenance
                 Reverse deterioration
                 in social indicators
                 Improve fiscal
                 transparency
                                         Settlement of PETROCA's obligations to the Road Fund due in 1999                                 Unmet
                                         1999 budget allocation for goods and services in education and health is 18.6 % and 15 % higher, Done (1999)
                                         respectively
                                         Closure of unlawful bank accounts of ministries                                                  Done (1999)
                                         Elimination of all off-budget spending                                                           Done (2000)
Cotton sector    Reduce deficit of       Lowering of producer prices                                                                      Done
                 sector parastatal
                 (SOCOCA)
                                         Closure of one ginning plant                                                                     Done but
                                                                                                                                          reversed
                                         Adoption of flexible price setting mechanism                                                     Unmet
                                         No financing of deficit by medium-term bank credit                                               Unmet
Privatization of Reduce quasi-fiscal     Privatize BICA (commercial bank)                                                                 Done (1999)
Public           losses of and subsidies
Enterprises      to public enterprises.
                 Improve their
                 transparency and
                 efficiency.
                                         Privatize UBAC (commercial bank)                                                                 Done (1999)
                                         Close all public enterprises that have ceased operations.                                        Done (1999)
                                         Privatize petroleum products imports and distribution (liquidate PETROCA; settle rights of       Done (1999)
                                         employees affected by privatization; agree with three oil companies on transfer of PETROCA's
                                         assets; creation of SOGAL, to take over the importation and storage of petroleum products.)
                                         Approve strategy for power sector and submit revised electricity code to Parliament.             Unmet
                                         Prepare regulatory framework for the water and telecommunications sectors.                       Unmet
                                         Create an autonomous regulatory body for the water, electricity and telecommunications sectors.  Unmet
                                         Bring ENERCA, the power utility, to the point of lease.                                          Unmet
Business         Improve regulatory      OHADA legislation enacted.                                                                       Done (1998)
Environment      framework
                                         Labor Code revised.                                                                              Unmet




                                                                    - 15 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                                            (In SDRs million)

                      Bank Fiscal Year      FY00       FY01      FY02        FY03

                   Appraisal Estimate           10.1        4.3          0          0

                   Cumulative                   10.1       14.4      14.4        14.4

                   Actual                        6.5        3.6          0          0

                   Cumulative                    6.5       10.1      10.1        10.1

                   Actual as % of Estimate       64         70         70         70




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
     Component               Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate
                         Bank         Govt.     CoF.       Bank      Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
                         20.00        0.00      0.00      14.00       0.00       0.00  70.0    0.0     0.0




                                                 - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

    Not applicable.




                                      - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year   Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               09/1998                    9     (1) Country Director                 S               S
                                                (1) Country Manager
                                                (1) Sector Manager
                                                (1) Task Manager
                                                (3) Sr. Economists
                                                (1) Sr. Power Engineer
                                                (1) Economist

 Supervision
               October 29, 2001            1    (1) Task Manager                     S               S
               May 30, 2001                2    (1) Task Manager                     S               S
                                                (1) Resident Economist
               July 30, 2001               1    (1) Task Manager                     S               S
               February 24, 2002           2    (1) Task Manager                     S               S
                                                (1) Sector Manager (Energy)

 ICR
                                          1     (1) Team Leader



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   98                           254
  Supervision                                  39                           100
  ICR                                           3                            11
  Total                                      140                            355




                                                - 18 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Minutes of the Operations Committee Meeting of June 3, 1998 on a Post-Conflict Transition
     Strategy for the Central African Republic.
2.   Office Memorandum. Project Concept Review Meeting memorandum and Concept Paper.
     September 25, 1998.
3.   Office Memorandum. CAR Structural Adjustment Credit, Minutes of Concept Paper Review
     Meeting (October 2, 1998). October 9, 1998.
4.   Back-to-office report and Aide-Memoire, Mission to Bangui, September 13-17, 1998. September
     20, 1998.
5.   Statement of Mission Objectives (October 16- November 2, 1998) for a Structural Adjustment
     Credit for the Central African Republic. October 7, 1998.
6.   Project Information Document. Central African Republic ­ Structural Adjustment Credit.
     October 8, 1998.
7.   CAR ­ SAC Mission ­ Status Report. October 23, 1998. (Email).
8.   CAR SAC ­ Review of BTOR of October Mission. November 10, 1998.
9.   Back to Office Report: CAR ­ Structural Adjustment Credit. November 11, 1998.
10.  Aide-mémoire de la mission de préparation d'une opération d'ajustement structurel et lettre de
     transmission. 20 novembre 1998.
11.  Office Memorandum to Sven Sandstrom, Managing Director, on the mitigation of security risks
     for the Structural Adjustment Operation in the Central African Republic. December 1, 1998.
12.  Office Memorandum on the Political, Security and Economic Context in the Central African
     Republic, December 21, 1998.
13.  Letter of President Wolfensohn to UN Secretary General Kofi Annan on the link between the
     presence of peacekeeping troops and the preparation of an adjustment operation. December 21,
     1998.
14.  Statement of Mission Objectives ­ Mission to Chad and CAR January 30-March 2, 1999.
     January 25, 1999.
15.  Project Information Document. Central African Republic ­ Structural Adjustment Credit.
     January 26, 1999.
16.  Interim report of a Bank-IMF mission to Bangui (Email). February, 21, 1999.
17.  Letter to the Prime Minister of the CAR on the preparation of the fourth Structural Adjustment
     Credit (French, not signed). October 7, 1999.
18.  Office Memorandum. Central African Republic ­ Post Conflict Budget Support Credit (Cr
     60092-CF). ROC Package. October 13, 1999.
19.  Office Memorandum. Central African Republic ­ Minutes of the ROC Meeting on Post-Conflict
     Budgetary Support Credit (Cr 60092- CF) Tuesday October 19, 1999. October 28, 1999.
20.  Letter of the Minister of Finance, Plan and International Cooperation to the Country Director
     on the Preparation of a Post-Conflict Budgetary Support. November 6, 1999.
21.  République Centrafricaine. Crédit a la Consolidation des Finances Publiques ­ Procès Verbal
     Des Négociations. Novembre 17, 1999.
22.  Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association to
     the Executive Directors on a Proposed Credit of SDR14.4 million (US$20 million equivalent) to
     the Central African Republic for A Fiscal Consolidation Credit, November 24, 1999. Report No
     P-7348-CA.
23.  Information Note to the Board and Statement by IMF Staff outlining recent macroeconomic
     developments in the Central African Republic. IDA/R99-188/2. December 14, 1999.
24.  Central African Republic. State of the discussions concerning the Extended Structural


                                               - 21 -

    Adjustment Facility (ESAF). December, 1999.
25. Statement to the Board for the Fiscal Consolidation Credit to the Central African Republic.
    December 16, 1999.
26. Development Credit Agreement for the Fiscal Consolidation Credit. January 6, 2000.
27. Central African Republic ­ Fiscal Consolidation Credit (Cr. No 3305 CAR). Release of the
    second tranche ­ Partial Waiver of One Condition. October 17, 2000.
28. Statement of Mission Objectives (May 13-June 3, 2001).
29. CAR: Office Memorandum ­ Fiscal Consolidation Credit. Extension of closing date for the IDA
    Credit (Cr. No 3305-CAR). June 26, 2001.
30. Back to Office Report for an Energy sector Mission to CAR. February 23, 2002.
31. Aide Mémoire de la mission Energie en RCA (mars 10-24, 2002).
32. President's Memorandum: Central African Republic, Fiscal Consolidation Credit (Credit No.
    3305-CAR) ­ Proposed Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement, March 20, 2002.
    IDA/R2002-0038.
33. CAR: Fiscal Consolidation Credit (ID: P060092) ­ Final Quality of Supervision Assessment
    (QSA5). November 20, 2002.
34. Archived Project Status Reports.




                                             - 22 -

Additional Annex 8. Government's Contribution



 MINISTERE DE L'ECONOMIE, DES FINANCES,          REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
       DU BUDGET, DU PLAN ET DE LA                   Unité ­ Dignité ­ Travail
      COOPERATION INTERNATIONALE                         -=-=-=-=-=-=-
            -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
      DEPARTEMENT DE L'ECONOMIE,
        DES FINANCES ET DU BUDGET
            -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
               C A B I N E T
            -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
COMITE TECHNIQUE PERMANENT DU SUIVI DES
 PROGRAMMES D'AJUSTEMENT STRUCTUREL
            -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-




       PROJET DU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
           DU CREDIT A LA CONSOLIDATION
                  DES FINANCES PUBLIQUES




                                       - 23 -

                                                                           Décembre 2003

                                        SOMMAIRE


INTRODUCTION                                                                                   3


I- OBJECTIF DU CREDIT ET CONDITIONS DE DECAISSEMENTS                                           3


II ­ TRANCHES MOBILISEES                                                                       4


III ­ MISE EN APPLICATION DES REFORMES                                                         4
MACROECONOMIQUES ET STRUCTURELLES                                                              4


IV ­ EVALUATION DES RESULTATS DES REFORMES                                                     5


V ­ CONCLUSION                                                                                 6


VI - ANNEXE.                                                                                   7




INTRODUCTION

      Le présent rapport rend compte de l'exécution de l'Accord de Crédit de Développement N°
3305-002 relatif au Crédit à la Consolidation des Finances Publiques signé le 06 Janvier 2000. Cet
accord a été conclu entre la Banque Mondiale représentée par Serge MICHAILOF,
Vice-Président Régional et le Gouvernement Centrafricain représenté par Henri KOBA,
Ambassadeur accrédité auprès des Etats Unis d'Amérique. Il met en relief successivement
l'objectif du crédit, les performances des deux parties, les résultats, impacts et contraintes et les



                                               - 24 -

arrangements futurs du crédit.

I- OBJECTIF DU CREDIT ET CONDITIONS DE DECAISSEMENTS

        Suite aux progrès accomplis dans la mise en oeuvre du programme conclu avec le FMI en
juillet 1998, la Banque Mondiale a accordé à la RCA un prêt budgétaire dont le montant s'élève à
14,4 millions de DTS (Droits de Tirage Spéciaux) soit 11,6 milliards de Francs CFA pour
consolider les finances publiques et stabiliser l'économie.

        Conformément à l'accord de crédit, les décaissements devraient se faire en trois tranches à
savoir :

         - 1ère Tranche :   6,5 millions de DTS,     soit   5,8 milliards FCFA
         - 2e Tranche :     3,6 millions de DTS,     soit  2,3 milliards FCFA
         - 3e Tranche :     4,3 millions de DTS,     soit  3,5 milliards FCFA

        Il convient de rappeler que le premier décaissement était conditionné par la mise en place
d'un cadre macro-économique satisfaisant, par référence aux indicateurs économiques qui
satisfont les deux parties.

        Le deuxième décaissement était lié quant à lui :
1)       à la non accumulation des arriérés des salaires à partir du 31 mars 2000 (paragraphe 8 de
la lettre de Politique de Développement );
2)       à l'inventaire des exonérations fiscales accordées aux sociétés minières et forestières du
1er janvier 1995 au 31 décembre 1998 et à ne plus accorder de nouvelles exonérations à la date
d'entrée en vigueur de cet Accord (paragraphe 6 de la lettre de Politique de Développement ) ;
3)       au règlement de toutes les obligations courantes de PETROCA dues au Fonds Routier
entre le 1er janvier et le 31 décembre 1999 (paragraphe 21 de la lettre de Politique de
Développement ).

        En ce qui concerne le troisième décaissement appelé « tranche flottante », les conditions à
son déblocage concernent :
1)       l'affermage de l'ENERCA (paragraphe 14 de la lettre de Politique de Développement) ;
2)       l'approbation de la stratégie pour le secteur de l'électricité et l'adoption par le parlement
du nouveau code de l'électricité jugé satisfaisant par la Banque Mondiale (paragraphes 14 et 17 de
la lettre de Politique de Développement) ;
3)       l'établissement d'un cadre réglementaire pour les secteurs des télécommunications et de
l'eau (paragraphe 17 de la lettre de Politique de Développement ) ;
4)       l'établissement d'un organe de régulation pour les secteurs de l'électricité, des
télécommunications et de l'eau ; il convient de rappeler que les fonctions et les termes de
référence ont été jugés satisfaisants par la Banque (paragraphe 17 de la lettre de Politique de
Développement ).

II ­ TRANCHES MOBILISEES



                                                  - 25 -

        La RCA a obtenu successivement deux décaissements sur trois depuis la conclusion de cet
Accord de Crédit au Développement. Il s'agit essentiellement de la première tranche (6,5 millions
de DTS, soit 5,8 milliards de FCFA) décaissée le 14 février 2000 et de la deuxième tranche (3,6
millions de DTS, soit 3,2 milliards de FCFA) mobilisée le 04 janvier 2001.


III ­ MISE EN APPLICATION DES REFORMES
      MACROECONOMIQUES ET STRUCTURELLES

        Ce crédit a été octroyé sous forme d'appui budgétaire dans un contexte où le
Gouvernement était engagé dans la mise en oeuvre des réformes sur le plan des finances publiques
et des réformes structurelles.

En effet, depuis juillet 1998, les politiques économiques et financières de la RCA étaient conçues
dans le cadre d'un accord triennal appuyé par la Facilité d'Ajustement Structurel Renforcé
(FASR) et remplacé par la Facilité pour la Réduction de la Pauvreté et la Croissance (FRPC).
L'exécution de ce programme a rencontré d'énormes difficultés qui ont à la conclusion d'un
programme de référence en 2001, couvrant la période d'octobre 2001 à mars 2002. Depuis lors,
aucun autre accord n'est signé avec les institutions de Bretton Woods, compte des crise
récurrentes.


1.      Réformes macroéconomiques

        De 2000 à 2002, les fondamentaux de l'économie révèlent :
-       un ralentissement de la croissance, passant des taux positifs de 1,8% en 2000 et 1% en
2001 à ­0,8% en 2002 ;
-       de légères tensions inflationnistes obtenues en 2000 (3,2%) et en 2001 (3,8%) malgré un
recul en 2002 (2,3%). Cela est consécutif aux crises de carburant de 2000 et aux coups de force
manqués du 28 mai 2001 qui ont renchéri les coûts d'approvisionnement et de production ;
-       une stabilité de la pression fiscale autour de 9% du PIB ;
-       une stabilité du déficit du compte courant autour de ­2% du PIB malgré une dégradation
de -4,9% enregistrée en 2001 ;
-       une réduction de la masse monétaire qui passe d'un taux positif de 5,4% en 2000 à ­4,3%
en 2002.

        Globalement, ces évolutions sont grandement liées aux chocs internes (événements
politico-militaires de mai et novembre 2001 et ceux d'octobre 2002, etc.) et aux chocs externes
(crise de carburant en 2000, effondrement des cours des matières premières, etc.).

        Sur le plan pratique, les conditions de décaissement de la deuxième tranche citées plus haut
devraient se traduire par une augmentation des recettes de l'Etat, suite à la mise en application des
recommandations des rapports TRAHIN et FOSSAT (cf. annexe). Cela s'est traduit, entre autres,
par l'introduction de la TVA en remplacement de la TCA dans la loi de Finance 2000. Les progrès
enregistrés au cours de cette période ont donc permis d'obtenir le 2e décaissement du Crédit à la



                                                 - 26 -

consolidation des finances publiques.


2.       Réformes structurelles

        Au niveau des conditions liées au processus de réformes structurelles, le gouvernement a
adopté initialement une stratégie de réforme du sous-secteur de l `électricité basée sur l'affermage
de la production, du transport, de distribution et de la commercialisation. Les principaux objectifs
fixés consistaient à augmenter l'accès de la population urbaine et rurale à l'électricité.

        Cependant, la réduction significative de SAUR International dans le capital social de
SODECA a amené le Gouvernement et les bailleurs de fonds (Banque Mondiale et AFD) à opter
pour le choix de la privatisation couplée de l'ENERCA et la SODECA ; car la situation financière
et l'état des équipements des deux sociétés ne permettent pas d'attirer un investisseur. Cela
permettrait de réaliser les économies d'échelle et susciter le désir des investisseurs privés.

        A ce jour, le Gouvernement a pris deux arrêtés relatifs à l'adoption du principe de
privatisation groupée des secteurs de l'eau et de l'électricité (Arrêté n° 012.02 du 20 février 2002)
et à la fusion de SODECA et ENERCA (Arrêté n° 014.02 du 25 mars 2002). Et le processus suit
son cours. Aussi, le code de l'électricité a-t-il été rédigé et transmis à la Banque Mondiale.

        Quant à la politique sectorielle et le cadre juridique et réglementaire des
télécommunications, le document a été rédigé, adopté par le Conseil des Ministres et transmis à la
Banque Mondiale.

        Concernant la mise en place de l'Agence de Régulation Multisectorielle, elle n'a pas
encore été faite suite au retard survenu dans l'examen des propositions et la signature du contrat
par le Cabinet Jones Day, Reavis & Pogue.


IV ­ EVALUATION DES RESULTATS DES REFORMES

        La mise en oeuvre de cet Accord de crédit s'est heurtée au début de l'année 2000 à la crise
qui a frappé de plein fouet le secteur pétrolier. En effet, cette crise s'explique par la réticence des
banquiers à financer la campagne 1999 ­ 2000 pour la simple raison que la société PETROCA
qui a le monopole de distribution et de vente de produits pétroliers est en pleine privatisation.
Cette société procurait environ 700 millions à l'Etat par mois au titre des taxes. Il convient de
souligner que ce manque à gagner a joué négativement sur les résultats de l'exercice 2000
concernant les repères quantitatifs tels que les recettes et les dépenses de l'Etat.

        Aussi, l'exécution à mi-parcours de ce crédit au cours de l'année 2001 a rencontré un
obstacle majeur à savoir le coup de force des mois de Mai et Novembre 2001. Ces crises
politico-militaires récurrentes ont remis en cause tous les efforts entrepris au début de ce
programme et justifient en partie le niveau élevé des arriérés intérieurs.




                                                   - 27 -

        De plus, la procédure trop longue du décaissement des fonds par la Banque Mondiale a
défavorisé la RCA qui, par le biais des crédits relais de la BEAC, perd une bonne partie des fonds
alloués en payant les intérêts débiteurs exorbitants. On peut noter, entre autres, le montant non
négligeable du règlement des arriérés sur les prêts antérieurs concédés à la RCA par la Banque
mondiale et qui s'élève à 388 millions de francs CFA lors du premier décaissement.

        Par ailleurs, l'absence de l'assistance technique au titre de la TVA a beaucoup pénalisé et
rallongé l'effet financier de cette nouvelle taxe sur les finances publiques en RCA. La formation
sur le tas des contrôleurs en matière de la TVA n'a pas donné les effets escomptés en matière de
recouvrement.


V ­ CONCLUSION

        Au total, les décaissements de ce crédit effectués par la Banque Mondiale au début des
années 2000 et 2001, se chiffrent à environ 9,1 milliards et ont permis d'exécuter les dépenses
énumérées ci-haut. En outre, il convient de rappeler que ce crédit devrait jouer un rôle très
déterminant sur la mise en oeuvre de la politique économique n'eut été les crises et les difficultés
connues.

        En somme, le Gouvernement souhaite vivement renouer avec la Banque et attend son
appui pour la relance socio-économique.




                                                 - 28 -

VI ­ ANNEXE


A - REFORMES DOUANIERES



N°   Recommandations           Echéance            Niveau d'exécution
A1   Nouvel organigramme de Janvier 2000              Fait. Cf Décret 01.282. quelques
     la Douane                 F.M.I.                anomalies constatées et signalées au
                                                           Cabinet pour corrections
A2   Mutation interne des      Décembre 2000       Fait. Cf Décret n° 03.128 du 22.06.03
     cadres des douanes.       F.M.I.              Arrêté n° 09/01 et Décision ministérielle
                                                   n° 047 et 048 du 07.07.03 et Note de
                                                   service n° 169/08/03.
A3   Problème de l'affectation Janvier 2001            L'audit interne (Note n° 010 du
     de stagiaires en Douane   F.M.I.              2.02.01) traite de l'intégration partielle
                                                     de certains stagiaires. Partiellement
                                                                   exécuté
A4   Intégration de la Douane  Février 2001        Proposition de paiement échelonné des
     au sein de l'O.M.D.       F.M.I.              arriérés de contributions de la RCA par
     (Organisation Mondiale                             l'O.M.D. Soumis au Ministère.
     des douanes)                                        Paiement partiel des arriérés
                                                    indispensables pour obtenir actions de
                                                    formation de l'Organisation et que la
                                                    R.C.A redevienne membre actif. Non
                                                                     fait.
B1   Assignation de résultats  Juillet 2000        Fait, 2003
     mensuels de perception   F.M.I.
     de recettes et de
     contentieux par service
B2   Renforcement de la        Juillet 2000        Fin de contrat avec SGS, la Douane
     collaboration Douane /    Janvier 2001          est en pourparler avec la société
     SGS                      F.M.I.                  BIVAC Internationale pour la
                                                     signature d'un nouveau contrat.
B3   Mise en oeuvre de la TVA Janvier 2001          Fait. Une note de service est venue
                              F.M.I.                 préciser les modalités de mise en
                                                   oeuvre de cette taxe (cf. note n° 006
                                                      du 8.1.01.) TVA appliquée aux
                                                      hydrocarbures dans LDF 2002.
B4   Faire respecter la        Novembre 2000         Suivi plus rigoureux des régimes



                                           - 29 -

    réglementation des           F.M.I.                    suspensifs et exonératoires,
    franchises et exonérations                          notamment l'entrepôt de stockage
                                                       Interdire les magasins de vente hors
                                                       taxes. Exceptés BAMAG et DIAS.
B5  Utilisation optimale de       Mars 2001          Projet de mise en place de SYDONIA
    SYDONIA 2.7                   F.M.I.                 ++ en attente. Utiliser toutes les
                                                       fonctionnalités et l'apport de fonds
                                                       issu de la RIDT pour l'informatique
                                                        douanière. Application étendue à
                                                      l'enregistrement des registres de gros
                                                       et des régimes suspensifs. Non fait.
B6  Réactiver les enquêtes et     Novembre 2000      Nomination depuis octobre 2001 d'un
    le service de la révision     F.M.I.             directeur des enquêtes et des brigades.
    (contrôle a posteriori)                              Résultats contentieux améliorés.
B7  Faire gérer le                Décembre 2000         Appui Recette Principale à la gare
    dédouanement des              F.M.I.                 routière pour le dédouanement.
    conteneurs par la Recette
    Principale.
B8  Apurement des registres       Décembre 2000       Fait l'objet d'une mission spécifique,
    de gros, et des titres de     F.M.I                afin de fixer une liste de redevables
    transit D 15                                      récalcitrants et augmenter les recettes
                                                           et le contentieux. En cours.
B9  Création d'une brigade        Décembre 2001          Dossier soumis au Ministère de
    mixte de contrôle                                           tutelle. En instance.
    Douanes ­ Impôts.
B10 Protocole d'accord avec       Février 2001                 Application partielle.
    la douanes camerounaise
    sur le problème du transit
C1  Problème de taxation aux Mars 2001                Aucunes explications fournies par le
    droits de douane des          F.M.I.             Cameroun suite diverses demandes de
    hydrocarbures destinés à                           la Douane RCA. Problème porté au
    la RCA et en provenance                           niveau de la CEMAC. Sans réponse.
    du Cameroun.
C2  Réévaluer la politique de     Janvier 2000         L'application des recommandations
    taxation de la filière bois ? F.M.I.                        des états généraux.
C3  Revoir les procédures de      Juillet 2001            Fait, nomination effective d'un
    dédouanement et prévoir F.M.I.                         responsable des archives et
    un archivage des                                  aménagement d'un local d'archives à
    déclarations.                                     la R.P. Prévoir texte de simplification
                                                      sur les procédures de dédouanement.
C4  Mettre à jour la              Septembre 2001        Mise à jour du Code des douanes.
    documentation                 F.M.I.               Mais le nombre est insuffisant pour
    professionnelle                                               tout le service.
C5  Projet de texte sur                                Fait. Texte fixant les attributions de
    l'antenne des douanes                              l'antenne des douanes de Douala et


                                              - 30 -

      centrafricaines de Douala                       Brazzaville déjà signé. Mise en place
      et Brazzaville.                                             des 2 antennes.
C6    Plan de formation des     Septembre 2001        Retenir les thèmes et faire module de
      agents des douanes        F.M.I.               formation. Avis favorable de l'E.I.E.D
                                                     pour formation et recyclage des agents
                                                              non formés ; en cours.
C7    Demande de mise en        Février              Note n° 006 du 15 février 2001. Note
      oeuvre de dispositions    2001                 à la signature du ministre délégué pour
      particulières relatives à                      compléter le dispositif d'aide à la lutte
      l'admission en franchise                         contre les maladies infectieuses. En
      des produits importés par                              exécution actuellement.
      la Croix Rouge et oeuvres
      assimilées.
D1    Sécuriser les enceintes   Novembre 2000         Partiellement fait. Achèvement mur
      douanières.               F.M.I.                 enceinte de la R.P en cours et de la
                                                           direction générale à réaliser.
                                                                Partiellement fait.
D2    Utiliser la RIDT pour     Juillet 2001          Mission expert CNUCED pour remise à
      équiper les services en                          niveau SYDONIA 2.7 et perspectives
      informatique de gestion                          de migration à la version 3. Non fait.
D3    Projet du PK 26                                 Financé par le budget de l'Etat, travaux
                                                                       stoppés
D4    Proposition de            Septembre 2001       Les recommandations de la journée de
      programme d'équipement F.M.I.                          réflexion sur la Douane.
      pour la douane
N°   Recommandations            Echéance             Niveau d'exécution
A1    Nouvel organigramme de Janvier 2000               Fait. Cf Décret 01.282. quelques
      la Douane                 F.M.I.                anomalies constatées et signalées au
                                                            Cabinet pour corrections
A2    Mutation interne des      Décembre 2000        Fait. Cf Décret n° 03.128 du 22.06.03
      cadres des douanes.       F.M.I.               Arrêté n° 09/01 et Décision ministérielle
                                                     n° 047 et 048 du 07.07.03 et Note de
                                                     service n° 169/08/03.




B - REFORMES FISCALES


RECOMMANDATIONS                        DATE LIMITE DE        NIVEAU D'EXECUTION
                                       MISE EN OEUVRE

Création de la commission chargée de       30 avril 2001     Commission mise en place par
suivre la mise en oeuvre des                                 note de service n° 155 du



                                            - 31 -

recommandations                                            18/09/01

Maîtrise des exonérations

Application strictement la convention     immédiat         A gérer conjointement avec la
aux seuls besoins diplomatiques et                         Douane. Une note de mise en
exclure l'ensemble du personnel du                         place de commission tripartite
bénéfice de la convention                                  Affaires étrangères/ Finances/
                                                           Plan est envoyée aux différents
                                                           départements.

N'accorder aucune exonération de        Immédiat           Déjà en pratique
TVA aux achats et aux importations
réalisées par les ONG et associations

Ne pas renouveler les conventions       Dés leur date      Suivi strict
d'exonération accordées à certaines     d'expiration
entreprises

   Immatriculation des contribuables
                                                           Fait, poursuite de la
Initier une campagne d'information      31 Décembre 2001   sensibilisation ; des anomalies
pour l'immatriculation des                                 continuent d'être constatées, le
contribuables et attribuer le NIF à                        DGID vient de donner des
l'ensemble des entreprises recensées                       instructions pour repriser les
                                                           choses.

Renforcer les sanctions en cas          Prochaine loi de   Pas fait.
d'exercice d'une activité sans          finances
immatriculation

Utilisation du NIF par la Douane et le  Immédiat           Fait pour la Douane et non pas
Trésor                                                     le Trésor.

Procédure de recouvrement

Appliquer le seuil d'assujettissement à Prochaine loi de   En dehors des cas d'exonération
la TVA à l'ensemble des activités       finances           et d'activité exclus du champ
                                                           d'application de la TVA, la TVA
                                                           s'applique à l'ensemble des
                                                           activités.


Réviser les modalités de recouvrement Prochaine loi de     Collectif 2001
des impôts : IMF ; IS etc...            finances



                                              - 32 -

Procéder au contrôle du prélèvement
fait par les grossistes pour le compte Immédiat           Exécuté mensuellement
des Impôts.

Exiger de la Douane la transmission
mensuelle de la liste des importations Immédiat et chaque Non fait
pour lesquels elle a effectué le       fin de mois
prélèvement

Développer le logiciel Systémique
pour y intégrer l'édition automatique  Immédiat           En cours
des bordereaux de transmission des
recettes et l'enregistrement des actes
de procédure

Mettre en réseau les services des
Régies                                 Immédiat           Travaux en cours de réalisation
                                                               En 2003
Contrôle fiscal

Renforcer le contrôle ponctuel de la
TVA                                    Décembre 2001      Plus de 190 contrôles

Créer la brigade mixte de contrôle
impôts/douanes                         Immédiat           Non fait

Action au recouvrement

Relancer l'utilisation de la fermeture
administrative des locaux              Septembre 2001     Fait
professionnels pour cause de
défaillance

Renforcer les moyens des services de
recouvrement                           Septembre 2001     En cours

Porter l'effectif des services de
poursuite à 4/5 agents                 Septembre 2001     Subordonné à l'organigramme
                                                          en instance d'adoption
Attribuer un budget annuel de
fonctionnement aux services chargés    Septembre 2001     Pas fait
du recouvrement, par affectation des
frais de poursuite.




                                              - 33 -

Ne plus confier le recouvrement de
certaines côtes aux services du Trésor. Immédiat      Fait




                                            - 34 -

    Additional Annex 9. QAG Report



                  QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT (QSA5)
                                      Summary Assessment Sheet
                                            (November 20, 2002)


                       COUNTRY: CAR                                  PROJECT            Fiscal Consolidation
                                                                     TITLE:             Credit

A. Overall assessment


The panel assessed the overall quality of supervision of CAR Fiscal Consolidation Credit (FCC) as Marginal.

The panel is aware that this operation was developed, approved and supervised under a very difficult political
and social context that required extraordinary efforts from the task manager and the rest of the task team.
However, the panel feels that Focus on Development Effectiveness, Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and
Processes, Supervision of Fiduciary/Safeguard Aspects and Realism of Performance Ratings were all
Marginal. Although the project had been reviewed in QEA3 (1999) and received an overall satisfactory rating,
it was that panel's assessment that Technical and Economic Aspects and Bank Inputs and Processes were
Marginal. That panel also indicated that insufficient recent ESW and the absence of a strong field presence
limited the Bank's ability to engage major stakeholders and may undermine sustainability of reforms supported
by the operation. The current panel feels that given the country's political and social instability and weak
implementation capacity, the overall design of the operation at entry was overly ambitious and there was no
clearly defined macroeconomic framework or quantitative fiscal targets for the operation. The Bank did not
succeed in overcoming these initial handicaps. Based on the Bank's supervision effort so far, this panel has
serious reservations about the likelihood that the development objectives of the project can be achieved and
sustained.

B. Main problems encountered (when did they occur, and what were the main factors giving
rise to them)


The FCC of SDR 14.4 million was approved in December 1999 to assist the government in carrying out its
main responsibilities more efficiently and effectively through timely payment of wages to government
employees, and by privatizing a few banks and the water, electricity and telecom enterprises to improve
efficiency and the government's fiscal position. The first tranche of SDR 6.5 million was released in January
2000 and the second tranche of SDR 3.6 million was released in December 2000.

An attempted coup in May 2001, caused significant delays in implementation of the remaining program. The
country has been under suspension since January 2002 with arrears to the Bank exceeding $9 million and by
end-March 2002, there were significant shortfalls in the government's wage payment commitments. In April
2002, following a reassessment of market conditions in the water, electricity and telecom sectors, the Bank
agreed to amend the conditions of the release of the floating tranche of SDR 4.3 million. The amended
conditions were aimed at increasing the managerial and operational efficiency of the utilities, with the
understanding that the merged water and electricity companies will be privatized by end-2002 (instead of 2000



                                                         - 35 -

as envisaged in the original credit).

The amendment to the operation, although necessary, appears to have set over-ambitious goals, particularly
regarding completion of the privatization component by end 2000. Lack of adequate preparation, including
relevant policy notes/ESW, seems to have handicapped the task team in maintaining a meaningful policy
dialogue with the government. Apparently mainly due to political instability, the task team was also unable to
conduct regular supervision missions to maintain continuity in the policy dialogue. The last (and apparently the
only full) supervision mission took place in May 2001 which coincided with the attempted coup. Moreover, the
supervision missions appear to have lacked coherence, i.e. different components of the program were
supervised at different times, TORs and aide memoires were inadequate, and the impact of these missions on
overall project implementation are unclear.

C. Appropriateness and adequacy of actions taken by the Bank to resolve existing/potential
problems

According to the documentation provided to the panel, the task team and the regional management concluded
that although some progress had been made in implementation of the reforms supported by the project, the pace
of implementation was too slow and a number of key conditions were not met. Specifically, the key conditions
for release of the third and final tranche which had been expected to be met by August, 2000, remained unmet.
The task team stepped up its efforts to assist the government in implementing the measures related to the
specific conditions: it assisted the authorities in the preparation of management contracts; the Bank, together
with the French Development Agency, helped the government in preparing an action plan for the reforms in the
electricity and water sectors; and efforts were made to monitor progress regarding the implementation of
reforms under the related Bank-funded "Policy Support" project.

Moreover, as indicated above, Bank management proposed amendments of conditions for release of the floating
tranche. Although the proposed new conditions, agreed upon in a meeting between the government and Bank
senior management, are expected to help increase the managerial and operational efficiency of the main utilities
-- and seem quite appropriate by the panel, they still anticipate completion of the privatization of the merged
water and electricity sectors by end-2002. Given that political instability and accumulation of arrears in salary
payments as well as debt service to IFIs have continued and the macroeconomic framework remains off-track,
it is the panel's view that the privatization component in the revised third tranche condition is unlikely to be
completed within by end-2002. It is also the panel's assessment that the changes/amendments to the project
should have been introduced much earlier.

D. Any Systemic Lessons

Privatization of public enterprises and utilities involve complicated processes and requires careful sequencing.
In designing an adjustment operation, much more thought need to be given to country's economic and political
conditions, and its ability to implement difficult and complex reform measures.

For LICUS-type countries, the focus of the Bank assistance should be on building capacity in the government
to implement reforms and improve delivery of services.

Preparation of relevant and good quality ESW and policy notes is a critical prerequisite for a meaningful policy
dialogue with the government and preparation of loans/credits.

Timely and focused management guidance for amending project design, policy dialogue and skill mix of the
supervision missions, particularly in the initial phase of project implementation, is critical to the success of a



                                                           - 36 -

project.

E. Suggestions to the Task Team (List two or three factors that will require particular
attention in the short/medium term to improve the prospects for achieving the project's
development objectives and long-term sustainability).

The following recommendations are made on the assumption of further delays in the Government's meeting the
third tranche release conditions:

(1) Strengthen the staffing of the supervision/technical missions to provide timely advice to the counterparts in
the government in dealing with the implementation issues and developing a medium-term strategy for reform
and service delivery.

(2) Step up technical assistance (under the Policy Support project) to enhance the government's ability to
implement reform measures and monitor progress towards the specified development outcomes.

(3) Prepare policy notes to help the policy makers better understand lessons learned from other similar
experiences in the region and provide background technical material on the fiscal/financial impact of the
various reform measures.

(4) Revisit the appropriateness of the measures requiring privatization by end-December 2002.

Rejoinder from the Region




                                                         - 37 -

                   QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT (QSA5)
                                       Summary Assessment Sheet


                        COUNTRY: CAR                                   PROJECT        Fiscal Consolidation
                                                                       TITLE:         Credit


     Recommended for Stage 2 Review

Major Issues Identified

Although some progress has been made under this operation, achievement of the identified development
objectives is highly uncertain. Due to political instability, lack of adequate implementation capacity on the part
of the CAR government, inadequacy of resources, and ambitiousness of the program goals, the likelihood that
this operation's results will be sustainable is in serious doubt. The fiscal framework for this adjustment
operation was unclear and there was no specific fiscal targets to be reached even though the operation was
labeled as "Fiscal Consolidation." The amendment to the operation, approved by the Board in April 2002,
although necessary, appears to have set over-ambitious goals (particularly regarding completion of the
privatization component by end 2002). Lack of relevant ESW and other background technical work on CAR,
have seriously handicapped the task team in both preparation of the operation and maintenance of a meaningful
policy dialogue with the government. Moreover, in part due to continued political instability, the task team was
unable to conduct regular supervision missions in order to maintain continuity in the policy dialogue.
Supervision missions lacked coherence (i.e. different components of the program were supervised at different
times). The documentation (in terms of TORs, aide memoires and back- to- office reports) related to the
supervision missions is inadequate. A more timely and focused management guidance would have been
beneficial to the task team.

Recommendation for Panel Skills

Country director for LICUS-type country, PREM Sector manager/lead macro economist; lead privatization
specialist familiar with Africa; specialized panel members with post-conflict background.




                                                           - 38 -

                  QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT (QSA5)

                      Development Objectives (Part A to be completed by the Task Team and parts
                      B and C by the Review Panel)


                      A. Development objectives outlined in the project's documents or subsequent changes
                      (Importance of development objectives addressed by the project:          (H = High, M =
                      Moderate, L = Low, N/A = Not Applicable)

(1) Development Objectives


          i. Poverty Reduction                                                        L
         ii. Structural and Sector Policy Reform                                      M
        iii. Private Sector Development                                               H
        iv. Institutional Development/Capacity Building                               H
         v.                         1
             Human Development                                                        NA

             Comments:
        vi. Environmental Sustainability                                              NA

       vii. Infrastructure Development                                                L

      viii. Other (specify)                                                           NA
        ix. Macroeconomic Management                                                  H

Comments (Please explain any material changes in DOs since project start):




    1
     Specify which one of the five following: (i) Achieve Universal Primary Education; (ii) Reduce Child Mortality;
     (iii) Improve Maternal Health; (iv) Combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria and other Diseases; (v) other Human
     Development.




                                                         - 39 -

                 QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT (QSA5)

(2) Outcomes

    For each Development Objective identified above as High, describe the corresponding outcome that will
    serve as the primary indicator that it has been attained, and an interim benchmark to evaluate progress
    during implementation



        i.  Poverty Reduction
            Outcome:
            Interim Benchmark:

        ii. Structural and Sector Policy Reform
            Outcome:
            Interim Benchmark:

       iii. Private Sector Development
            Outcome: Private investment has increased in the petroleum distribution and power company and
            services to households and firms are more efficient.
            Interim Benchmark: Settlement of PETROCA's obligations to the Road Fund. Liquidation of
            PETROCA. Settlement of rights of employees affected by privatization. Transfer of
            PETROCA's assets to new private companies. Incorporation of SOGAL to take over the
            importation and distribution of petroleum products. ENERCA is brought to the point of lease.

       iv.  Institutional Development/Capacity Building
            Outcome: Enabling regulatory framework for private investors in the utilities sectors with no
            barriers to entries and fair competition
            Interim Benchmark: An autonomous regulatory body is established and the regulatory
            framework for the utilities is revamped.

        v.  Human Development
            Outcome:
            Interim Benchmark:

       vi.  Environmental Sustainability
            Outcome:
            Interim Benchmark:

       vii. Infrastructure Development
            Outcome:
            Interim Benchmark:

      viii. Other
            Outcome:



                                                      - 40 -

    Interim Benchmark:

ix. Macroeconomic Management
    Outcome: Fiscal Sustainability through increased revenue in a transparent and efficient manner;
    transparency in expenditures
    Interim Benchmark: No granting of special tax exemptions to logging and mining operations.
    IDA has received an inventory of special tax exemptions as of end-December 1998. Introduction
    of a minimum turnover tax for diamond-purchasing bureaus. Consolidation of export turnover
    taxes into a single tax. Introduction of a Value Added Tax. Introduction of a broad-based
    licensing for small-scale tax payers. No further accumulation of domestic and external arrears.
    Closure of unlawful bank accounts of ministries. Elimination of all off-budget spending. Primary
    fiscal surplus which allows the State to face domestic and external obligations.




                                               - 41 -

                   QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT (QSA5)


                        B.     Likelihood of achieving the stated development objectives (Panelists to
                        assess the latest DOs using a scale of: (L = Likely; NL = Not Likely; UN =
                        Uncertain; or N/A = Not Applicable)


(1) Development Objectives


                            i.Poverty Reduction                                             UN
                           ii.Structural and Sector Policy Reform                           UN
                           iii.Private Sector Development                                   UN
                           iv.Institutional Development/Capacity Building                   UN
                            v.Human                  1
                                       Development                                          NA

                              Comments:
                           vi.Environmental Sustainability                                  NA

                          vii.Infrastructure Development                                    UN

                         viii.Other (specify)                                               NA

                           ix.Macroeconomic Management                                      UN

Comments:

C. Sustainability:

(Panel's judgment of the likelihood that the operation's results will be sustainable in the longer- term)

   Likely         Unlikely      Uncertain

Comments: It is the panel's assessment that the design of this operation (both original and amended) is overly
ambitious for a LICUS-type country with very weak implementation capacity and political and social
instability. Also the implementation arrangements and risk mitigating measures are not well defined in the
documentation provide to the panel. Based on these factors, it is the panel's view that achievement and
sustainability of selected development objectives as noted above is uncertain.



     1 Specify which one of the four following: (i) Achieve Universal Primary Education; (ii) Reduce Child Mortality;
      (iii) Improve Maternal Health; (iv) Combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria and other Diseases; (v) other Human
      Development.




                                                          - 42 -

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT (QSA5)
                  GUIDANCE QUESTIONNAIRE

                     Summary Assessment Sheet


Assessment Rating
1  = Highly Satisfactory
2  = Satisfactory
3  = Marginal
4  = Unsatisfactory
NA = Not Applicable




   1. Focus on Development Effectiveness                             3

   2. Supervision of Fiduciary/Safeguard Aspects                     3

   3. Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes                   3

   4. Realism of Project Performance Ratings                         3

               OVERALL ASSESSMENT                                                3


  The overall assessment is not an average of the assessments of the constituent elements of
  supervision. Instead, the panel should use its judgment in weighing the relative importance of
  each given the country and the project context. In making the assessment, the panel should
  consider the importance of each category, and within each category, the various questions, to
  supervision quality.




                                     - 43 -

          QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT (QSA5)

Context:

            A. With the experience of implementing and supervising the project
            to-date:

            (a) Was project design at entry sound?                                     No
                 Comments: Given the country's political and social instability and
                weak implementation capacity, the overall design of the operation
                at entry was overly ambitious, particularly in regards to the
                privatization component. There was no clearly defined
                macroeconomic framework or quantitative fiscal targets for the
                operation. Although the project had been reviewed in QEA3 (1999)
                and received an overall satisfactory rating, it was that panel's
                assessment that Technical and Economic Aspects and Bank Inputs
                and Processes were Marginal. That panel also indicated that
                insufficient recent ESW and the absence of a strong field presence
                limited the Bank's ability to engage major stakeholders, which may
                have undermined sustainability of reforms supported by the
                operation.

            (b) Was the project ready for implementation at approval?                  No

                 Comments: The overall progress towards the project's
                 development objectives was very slow from the beginning. Two
                 specific conditions (settlement of PETROCA's obligations to the
                 Road Fund and incorporation of SOGAL) remained unmet for
                 nearly six months after their expected date of implementation.
                 Also, government ownership of the program was in doubt:
                 according to the first PSR (6/26/2000), in response to an
                 unexpected situation, the government threatened to "halt or even
                 reverse the privatization process."

             (c) Was overall implementation performance satisfactory prior             No
                 to FY01?
                 Comments: Implementation was unduly slow from the
                 beginning. Due to political instability, lack of adequate
                 implementation capacity on the part of the CAR government,
                 inadequacy of resources, and ambitiousness of the program
                 goals, the implementation of the agreed program under this
                 operation was slow and uneven. Lack of relevant ESW and
                 other background technical work on CAR, may have seriously
                 handicapped the task team in engaging the government in a
                 meaningful policy dialogue. Moreover, in part due to continued
                 political instability, the task team was unable to conduct regular



                                                - 44 -

    supervision missions in order to maintain continuity in the policy
    dialogue. In addition, supervision missions lacked coherence
    (i.e. different components of the program were supervised at
    different times).


(d) Could the problems encountered during implementation                    Yes
    have been identified at entry?
    Comments: Weak implementation capacity, serious fiscal and financial
    problems and difficult political and social conditions should have been
    taken into account in designing and preparing the project. A project
    underpinned by more focused and less ambitious reform program with
    adequate technical assistance for building implementation capacity
    would have been more appropriate and made supervision more focused.




(e) Any major changes prior to FY01 (through restructuring                   No
    and/or MTR)?
    Comments:




                                 - 45 -

          QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT (QSA5)

Context:

            B. Compliance with safeguard policies

             (a) Please mark below the applicability of and compliance with safeguard
                  policies:

                  Policy                                         Applicability    Compliance

               i. Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01)                   No           NA
               ii. Natural Habitats (OP 4.04)                          No           NA
              iii. Forestry (OP 4.36)                                  No           NA
              iv. Pest Management (OP 4.09)                            No           NA
               v. Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                        No           NA
              vi. Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                         No           NA
             vii. Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30)                   No           NA
             viii. Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)                            No           NA
              ix. Projects on International Waterways (OP              No           NA
                   7.50)
               x. Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)                 No           NA


             (b) In case of any compliance issues, including those                  NA
                  occurring prior to FY01, what were their nature and
                  extent?
                  Comments from Env:


                  Comments fromSD: NA


             (c) Were appropriate measures taken to mitigate                        NA
                  safeguard aspects that could have had adverse
                  impacts?
                  Comments from ENV (explain briefly the adequacy of mitigating
                  measures and indicators/benchmarks used to monitor progress?):



                  Comments from SD (explain briefly the adequacy of mitigating
                  measures and indicators/benchmarks used to monitor progress?):
                  NA

            C. In light of answers to questions under A and B, what should have been
            the supervision strategy/focus during FY01-02 ?




                                             - 46 -

The Bank's strategy toward CAR should have been to modify the design of the
project as soon as the project began experiencing delays. A more pro-active,
engaging supervision missions, with appropriate Management guidance, would have
led to modifications in the design of the project much earlier than it actually occurred.




                                - 47 -

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT (QSA5)

 1.    Focus on Development Effectiveness                                         3

  1.1 Identification and Assessment of Problems                                   3
      (a) Timely Identification of Implementation Problems                    3
      (b) Regard for Development Impact (including                            3
     policy/institutional reform aspects)
      Comments:      Although major issues (such as unduly slow
      implementation) were encountered from the start (in January 2000), the
      project was not amended until April 2002.

  1.2 Focus on Sustainability                                                     3
      (a) Borrower and Stakeholder Ownership                                  2
      (b) Technical Assistance, Training and Capacity Building                3
      (c) Readiness for Operational Phase                                     3
      Comments: The project lacked adequate and timely project
      implementation arrangement and did not envisage adequate technical
      assistance.

  1.3 Actions Taken and Follow-Up                                                 3
      (a) Appropriateness of Advice and Proposed Solutions to the 3
      Borrower (including Action Plan)
      (b) Appropriateness and Speed of Bank follow-up action                  3
      (including e.g., cancellations, suspensions)
      (c) Impact and Effectiveness of Bank actions (including risk            3
      management)
      (d) Quality of Mid-Term-Review (if undertaken during                    3
      FY01-FY02)
      (e) Quality of Restructuring Plan (if undertaken during                 NA
      FY01-02)
      Comments: Advise provided by Bank to the Govt. was not timely and
      did not recognize the complexities concerning the privatization
      component. The quality of the policy dialogue was adversely affected
      by political instability and Bank's inability to properly supervise the
      project.

  1.4 Effective use of CPPR (or other venues for portfolio review                 2
      with the borrower) to resolve problems affecting the
      project?
      Comments: In light of the delays in implementation of the project and
      serious difficulties encountered by the government in proceeding with
      the ambitious privatization program during a period of economic and
      political instability, the regional management and Bank's senior
      management (at the level of MD) visited CAR and reviewed, together


                                     - 48 -

with the government, the progress made up to that point as well as the
factors that had caused delays in the implementation of program.
These discussions were helpful and led to the amendments to the
project which were eventually approved by the Board in April 2002.




                            - 49 -

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT (QSA5)


 2.   Supervision of Fiduciary/Safeguard Aspects                               3
 With the experience of supervising the project during
 FY01-02, assess the adequacy of supervision of:

  2.1 Procurement e.g., Post reviews, quality and timeliness of             NA
      advice and follow-up action
      Comments:


  2.2 Financial Management e.g., Accounting/auditing;                       2
      financial information (e.g., PMRs), Special Account
      Reviews, SOE processes
      Comments: This is an adjustment credit. Financial management
      fiduciary aspects were taken into consideration during project
      preparation and appraisal. Also, during project implementation,
      financial management were considered properly. Based on project
      documents and TTL explanations, the risk associated with
      financial management and proper use of funds had been low.



  2.3 Legal Aspects e.g., Legal compliance; relevance of legal              2
      covenants; clarity/timeliness of advice
      Comments:

  2.4 Environmental Aspects e.g., Environmental impact,                     NA
      safeguard compliance
      Comments:

  2.5 Social Aspect e.g., Social impact, safeguard compliance               3
      Comments: This operation is, at base, designed to provide support
      for payment of regular salaries to civil servants and to support a
      privatization process as a means of promoting fiscal consolidation
      and improving governance. Though the operation may not appear
      to have explicit social development objectives, in fact the
      successful payment of salaries to civil servants clearly has
      implications for the delivery of services to the population, and,
      more fundamentally, the operation is consciously attempting to
      establish the basis for important social outcomes, notably poverty
      reduction, and this is clearly recognized by the TT and Bank. For
      this reason, it is important that the operation, or a related
      operation, achieve the goals established, particularly as an i-PRSP
      has already been discussed at board, and a PRSP is now under
      preparation. The key issue is that the strategies envisioned in the



                                    - 50 -

    PRSP are unlikely to be successful unless the enabling conditions
    which were to be established under this operation become
    institutionalized. Although there were clearly extenuating
    circumstances, the Bank has not been able to adequately supervise
    the project, and it has been intermittent in its relationships with
    key stakeholders. The Bank needs to work harder to frankly
    assess the current situation and determine what is realistic in
    terms of medium term reform, and to help government to adjust its
    poverty reduction strategy in the light of those findings. More
    work needs to be done to build ownership within the country of
    the proposed reforms, and to build a constituency of support for
    reform among key counterparts and key elements of CAR society.
    There is a danger that the Bank and other stakeholders may
    attempt to move too fast on the specific strategies aimed at
    poverty reduction before they have addressed the overall
    environment in which those strategies must be implemented.

2.6 Performance and Progress Monitoring e.g., Use of key                   3
    indicators, progress reporting, attention to results
    Comments: This credit is an "adjustment credit" provided to CAR
    based on a commitment outlined in a Letter of Development
    Policy (LDP). The M&E system established (at entry) is a
    "Program Policy Matrix" which outlines specific measures and
    actions and a timetable that the CAR has agreed to carry these out
    in line with its LDP. Because the CAR has been under suspension
    of disbursements due to arrears accumulation, it has not been
    possible to address the weak implementation capacity of the
    borrower. A companion technical assistance credit (Policy
    Support Project) supports the strengthening of the borrower's
    implementation capacity. Notwithstanding the problems faced by
    CAR, it appears that significant achievements have taken place
    and that CAR has implemented some of the measures outlined in
    the policy matrix. Supervision reports and aide memoires,
    highlight progress that has been made and keep track of the
    actions taken and to be taken. Hence, from a strict M&E point of
    view, the use of the policy matrix for this adjustment credit, and
    reporting of progress made by itself monitors and measures
    performance. The PSR should provide a summary of the policy
    measures that were agreed (refer to Annex B of the Presidents
    Report) and indicate whether the "targets" have been achieved in
    lieu of key performance indicators.




                                  - 51 -

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT (QSA5)


  3. Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes                                  3
 With the experience of supervising the project during FY01-02,
 assess the quality of Bank inputs and processes:

  3.1 Staffing                                                                     3
      (a) Staff Continuity                                                     2
      (b) Supervision Skill Mix                                                3
      (c) Degree of Country Office Involvement and Contribution                NA
      Comments: The task team manager was changed right after the project
      became effective. There were only a few supervision missions, some of
      which lacked the necessary skill mix.

  3.2 Supervision Activities                                                       3
      (a) Mission Preparation/TORs, Frequency and Time Spent in 3
      the Field
      (b) Quality of Interaction with Borrower outside of formal               2
      Missions?
      Comments: There is no evidence of adequate supervision mission
      preparation. Based on the documentation provided to the mission, there
      is only one TOR for supervision mission. No TORs for the specialized
      supervision missions (e.g. telecom, energy) were supplied to the panel.
      The documentation (in terms of TORs, aide memoires and back- to-
      office reports) related to the supervision missions was inadequate. The
      missions were infrequent, though the regional Bank staff and the task
      team held policy discussions with their counterparts in the government
      on a number of occasions.

  3.3 Quality of Supervision Documentation and Follow-up                           3
      (a) Aide-Memoire and Follow-Up Letters (well organized,                  3
      focused on key issues and solutions, readable?)
      (b) Quality of supervision documentation received by the                 3
      panel
      Comments: In general, the documentation (in terms of TORs, aide
      memoires, back- to- office reports, follow-up management letters) related
      to the supervision missions was inadequate and lacked coherence. There
      is no supervision report on the fiscal situation even though the
      adjustment loan supported "fiscal consolidation."

  3.4 Relationships                                                                2
      (a) Relations with the Borrower (i.e., are they effective?)              2
      (b) Relations with Donors and other stakeholders (i.e., are              2


                                     - 52 -

   they effective?)
   Comments:


3.5 Management Inputs                                                        2
   (a) Adequacy and Speed of Management Attention and                    2
   Actions
     i) Mission's strategic focus and problem solving                    2
     ii) Missions debriefing                                             NA
    iii) PSR and post-mission follow-up?                                 3

   Comments:
   (b) Adequacy of supervision budget
      Too Little            Too Much              About Enough

   Comments:


   (c) Effectiveness of Budget Use                                       3
   Comments: There was only one supervision mission led by the task
   manager; and there were only a few sectoral supervision missions.
   While a significant portion of the supervision budget appears to have
   been used for amending the project, more resources should have been
   utilized to provide advice to government counterparts in dealing with
   implementation issues and developing medium term strategies for
   reform.




                                 - 53 -

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT (QSA5) - GUIDANCE
                              QUESTIONS


      4. Realism and Quality of Project Performance Reporting                             3
      (FY01-02)

       4.1 Accuracy, Timeliness and Consistency with subsidiary ratings                   2
           in PSR
           Comments:


       4.2 Appropriateness of risk ratings in PSR                                         3
           Comments: The critical risks were rated as "substantial" in FYs 00-01
           and were downgraded to "moderate" in FY02. They should have been
           rated as "High" in all years, considering the political instability and weak
           implementation capacity of the government.

       4.3 Adequate Justification for any change of ratings                               3
           Comments: Rating changes were not adequately justified. The rating for
           M&E changed from NA in FY00 to S in FY01 and then to U in FY02
           without giving any rationale. For procurement, it was not rated in FY00,
           rated "S" in FY01 and "U" in FY02. No explanations provided.

       4.4 Adequate Explanation of DO and IP ratings                                      3
           Comments: There was inadequate explanation for improving the rating
           for IP in FY01 and then changing it back to "U" again in FY02.

       4.5Appropriate Use of Golden Flags, if applicable                                 NA
           Comments:




                                         - 54 -

- 55 -

