Report No. 761a-YDR                                                  FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Aden Port Rehabilitation Project
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
August 4, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
This report was prepared for official use cny by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      Yemeni Dinar (YD)
US$1.00                    YD 0.3h5
US$2.90             =      YD 1.000
US$2.9 million      =      YD 1 million
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric System                          British/US System
1 meter (m)                            3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)          =            0.62 miles
1 sq kilometer (km )      =            0.386 sq miles
1 hectare (ha)            =            2.47 acres
1 metric ton (m ton)      =            2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFESD    -    Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
PAA       -   Port of Aden Authority
DWT      -    deadweight tons
GNP      -    gross national product
IRCY     -    Insurance and Re-Insurance Company of Yemen
MPW      -    Ministry of Public Works
NDC      -    National Dockyard Company
NRT      -    net registered tons
NSC      -    National Shipping Company
PDRY     -    People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
UK       -    United Kingdom
UNDP     -    United Nations Development Programme
US       -    United States of America
USSR     -    Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
YPSC     -    Yemen Ports and Shipping Corporation
POL      -    petrol, oil, lubricants
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  ..................................................                        i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .............................................                          1
II.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  .....................................                          1
A.    Effects  of Geography and Economic Growth of Transport                        1
B.    The Transport System ..........................,                              2
C.    Transport Policy, Planning  and Coordination  ....                 .....      3
III.  THE PORT                 ...................................                           4
A.    The Yemen Ports  and Shipping Corporation  ....                  ........     4
B.    Facilities  ..........................................                        5
C.    Organization and Management  .........................                        5
D.    Operations  ..........................................                        8
E.    Traffic  .............................................                       10
F.    The Development Plan  ................................                       12
IV.  THE PROJECT ......................                                                    12
A.    Objective  ...........................................                       12
B. Description ...............                                                     12
C.    Engineering Evaluation  ..............................                       14
D.    Cost Estimate  .......................................                       15
E. Financing .............                                                         16
F.    Project-Execution,  Procurement and Disbursement    .....                    18
G.    Environmental Impact  ................................                       18
V.    FINANCIAL EVALUATION  .....................................                        19
A.    General  .............................................                       19
B.    Tariffs  .............................................                       20
C.    Government Financial Policies  .......................                       20
D.    Cost Accounting and Budgets  .........................                       20
E.    Auditing  ............................................                       21
F.    Asset Valuation  .....................................                      21
G.    Insurance  ...........................................                      21
H.    Consolidated Financial Position  .....................                       22
'1,4e  At-raisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. A.J.  Stone  (Engineer/
Economist) and A. Boykiw (Financial Analyst/Consultant).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                      Page No.
VI.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ......................................   22
A.  Benefits and Beneficiaries ..........................   22
B.  Economic  Evaluation   .................................  23
C.  Summary and Conclusions .............................   24
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS ..................... .....................   24
ANNEXES
1. Planned Public Investments 1972-1974 and 1975-1979
2. Previous Transport Projects
3. Port Development Study - Terms of Reference
4. Port Facilities
5. Organization of Port of Aden Authority
6. Port of Aden Authority - Salary and Wage Structure
7. Organization of National Shipping Company
8. Organization of National Dockyard Company
9. Forecast Traffic
10.  Shipping Statistics for the Fiscal Years 1963-1973
11. Project Investment Plan FY76-79
12.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
13. Yemen Ports and Shipping Corporation - Balance Sheet as at March 31, 1974
14. Assumptions Made in Financial Projections and Current Financial Position
15. Yemen Ports and Shipping Corporation - Consolidated Income Statements
16. Yemen Ports and Shipping Corporation - Consolidated Forecast Cash Flow
Statement
17.  Port of Aden Authority - Past Financial Results
18. Port of Aden Authority - Financial Forecasts
19. National Shipping Company - Financial Performance and Forecast
20. National Dockyard Company - Financial Performance and Forecast
MAP
IBRD 11045R
IBRD 1152S



APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SUMMARY
i.        The Port of Aden is the principal port of the People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen (PDRY). The activities in the Port are primarily concerned
with servicing of ships rather than cargo-handling. Prior to the closure of
the Suez Canal in 1967 the Port received over 6,000 ship calls per year, but
now receives about one-fifth of that level. Over the period since the closure
of the Suez Canal, there has been little or no replacement of equipment. With
the partial return of traffic expected with the reopening of the Canal, the
Government has requested the Association's assistance in financing the proj-
ect to rehabilitate the Port.
ii.       The internal transportation network in PDRY is meagre and reflects
its harsh topography and previous independence of the regions which now com-
prise the Republic. The Association has assisted the development of the high-
way network with two projects and one engineering credit. These highway
operations support the Government strategy to diversify the economy from its
previous service orientation to a mixed service/commodity producing economy.
The Port of Aden remains as a very important resource and the Government
wishes to capitalize upon the opportunity to earn foreign exchange which is
presented with the reopening of the Suez Canal and the expected return of
traffic to Aden.
iii.      To this end, the proposed project will provide the Port with the
initial capability to attract its share of the shipping returning to the
trade routes through the Suez Canal. The Kuwait Fund is assisting the Gov-
ernment with finance for an ongoing Port Development Study which will-outline
the major developments of the port service. The proposed rehabilitation proj-
ect consists of the replacement of: floating, workshop, navigation, communica-
tion, and cargo-handling equipment, together with technical assistance and
minor civil works. The total project cost is estimated at US$17.6 million
equivalent, of which US$16.8 million is required in foreign currency. It is
proposed that the Association finance US$3.2 million of the foreign exchange
requirement including retroactive finance of US$25,000 for technical assist-
ance to enable the prompt preparation of tender documents. The Government
will contribute US$0.8 million equivalent of the local currency requirements
from the internal resources of the Yemen Ports and Shipping Corporation (YPSC).
The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD) will finance, in
parallel with the Association, the remaining foreign exchange of US$13.6 mil-
lion. The finance will be passed from Government to the YPSC as a loan and
then through the budget mechanism to three of the units within the YPSC,
namely, the Port of Aden Authority (PAA), the National Shipping Company
(NSC), and the National Dockyard Company (NDC). The terms of the loan from
the Government to the YPSC are an interest rate of 10% per annum with the term
of 15 years including a grace period of two years. The YPSC, with the assist-
ance of a procurement expert financed under the proposed credit, will be



-esponsible for project procurement. Procurement of equipment and civil works
is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of calendar year
1977 and technical assistance will be continued to the end of 1978. Procure-
ment of equipment items financed from the credit would follow internationally
advertized competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the Association's
guidelines.
iv.       The finances of the YPSC presently show a healthy cash position
which will improve with the build-up in traffic. The Port Development Study
includes a complete review of the YPSC's financial structure. An economic
evaluation of the proposed project estimates a rate of return in excess of
25%. The rate of return remains acceptable under a wide range of alternative
hypotheses on cost and/or benefits. The forecast increase in shipping activ-
ity will also yield substantial benefits with the expected regeneration of
service industries in Aden, with accompanying increases in employment.
v.        With the assurances obtained and fulfillment of certain conditions
for credit effectiveness as indicated in para 7.01, the project is suitable
for an IDA Credit of US$3.2 million, on the usual terms, to be re-lent to the
YPSC.



APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY)
has requested the Association's assistance in financing a project to rehabili-
tate the Port of Aden. The Project will enable Aden to service the initial
increase in traffic expected with the reopening of the Suez Canal. The Proj-
ect consists of replacement of: floating, workshop, navigation, communication,
and cargo-handling equipment, together with technical assistance and minor
civil works. The technical assistance element of the project would have been
eligible for UNDP financing. However, since no UNDP funds are available for
this purpose, the Government has asked that it be included in the proposed
project. The finance will be passed from the Government to the Yemen Ports
and Shipping Corporation (YPSC) as a loan and then through the budget mechanism
to three of the units within the YPSC, namely, The Port of Aden Authority, The
National Shipping Company, and The National Dockyards Company. The total
project cost is estimated at US$17.6 million equivalent, of which US$16.8 mil-
lion is required in foreign currency. The Association will finance US$3.2
million of the foreign exchange requirement. The Government will contribute
US$0.8 million of the local currency requirement from the internal resources
of the YPSC. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD) will
finance, in parallel with the Association, the remaining foreign exchange of
US$13.6 million.
1.02      This report presents the findings of an Association appraisal mis-
sion in November/December 1974, consisting of Messrs. Alastair J. Stone
(Engineer/Economist), and Al Boykiw (Financial Analyst/Consultant). The
findings are based on information received from the YPSC, other information
collected during the appraisal mission, and information on the Transport Sec-
tor collected for the appraisal of a Third Highway Project.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Effects of Geography and Economic Growth of Transport
2.01      The PDRY is located on the southern part of the Arabian Peninsula
(see Map IBRD 11045) and covers an area of about 290,000 sq km (about the same
size as Italy). The country has a harsh topography dominated by mountain
ranges running parallel to the coastline, leaving a coastal plain of from 5
to 65 km in width. The climate is arid with agriculture limited to about 1%
of the land in areas where ground water is present and can be reached by shal-
low wells. In this environment, transport and communications between settled



- 2 -
areas, prior to independence, was achieved mainly by dhows travelling along
the coast and discharging cargo on unprotected beaches. The only protected
harbor in PDRY is at Aden, the capital and centre of economic activity. Aden
is adjacent to the major shipping trade routes between Europe and the
Asia-Pacific region via the Suez Canal. Up until the closure of the Canal
in 1967, Aden Port attracted much economic activity, part of which was in
support of British strategic interests. The economic activity was in the
form of bunkering, service, and trading to the many merchant and naval ships
calling at the Port. Today Aden continues to support a population of 250,000
or 16% of the total 1.6 million population of PDRY. However, with the closure
of the Suez Canal and the withdrawal of the British military garrison in 1967,
followed by the discontinuation of British budget support in 1968, there was
an immediate decline in economic activity, rapid depletion of foreign exchange
reserves, unemployment, and considerable emigration of skilled manpower. To
meet this situation, the Government cut public expenditures, mainly by reducing
salaries, and sought and received bilateral assistance for its basic invest-
ment needs, especially from Eastern European countries, the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics (USSR), and the People's Democratic Republic of China.
Between 1966 and 1968 the GDP is estimated to have dropped by about 30% as a
result of this fall in economic activity in the Aden region. Through all
this, agriculture, the subsistence mainstay for over two-thirds of the popula-
tion in PDRY, was little affected. Per capita GNP was estimated to be
US$100 in 1973.
2.02      The economic strategy of the Government is to ultimately change the
service economy of pre-independence centered on Aden, into a mixed service
and commodity-producing economy with most economic activities concentrated in
the public sector. To achieve this aim, the Government has nationalized
most assets and is encouraging the creation of producers' cooperatives. The
Government is supporting such moves with investments in agriculture and
fisheries projects (partly financed by the Association) and investments in a
road network linking the agricultural and fishing centers with Aden. This
strategy, together with the proposed project, is expected to lead to a resump-
tion of moderate economic growth over the next few years.
B. The Transport System
2.03      The transport system of the PDRY comprises 5,500 km of roads and
tracks, two ports, and 15 airports and air strips. Pipelines connect the oil
refinery in Little Aden with the Port of Aden, a distance of about 20 km.
There are no railways.
2.04      Before independence PDRY consisted of the Aden Protectorate and six-
teen small states run on feudal lines which, in concert with the harsh environ-
ment discouraged the development of a unifying transport system. Since inde-
pendence, PDRY has begun to develop a national highway network, plus regular
air services between outlying governorates and Aden. Dhows continue to pro-
vide coastal shipping services. All imports and exports to PDRY flow through
the Port of Aden; however, the shipping activity in the Port is predomillantly
external to the transport requirements of the country.



- 3 -
2.05      The future growth of the internal transport sector can be expected
to follow the development of the highway system for which the Government has
forecast a rate of growth of 7.5% per annum over the five years beginning
1975. The statistical base for such forecasts is poor so assessment of this
growth rate is difficult. However, combining the knowledge that the trans-
port system is in a very low state of development with the expected growth of
economic activity in agriculture and fishing, together with the return of
some of the economic activity in Aden following the reopening of the Suez
Canal, then such growth rates appear reasonable, in spite of the expected
moderate rate of growth in the economy as a whole.
C. Transport Policy, Planning, and Coordination
2.06      The Ministry of Communications is responsible for all transport
modes, except highways, and for the overall planning and coordination of the
sector. Highways are the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works and
the planning and coordination of highways with other modes is, in fact,
achieved in the Planning Ministry. The Planning Ministry is responsible for
drawing up and coordinating the implementation of the Government's long-term
investment plans. The overall standard of investment planning is not high
as a consequence of a chronic shortage of qualified staff. Transport policy
follows the lines adopted in centrally planned economies. All transport is
regulated as regards technical characteristics, use, and the price of services.
2.07      A three-year Development Plan ended in March 1974.  However, due to
lack of domestic finance, its implementation fell short of its targets, and
investment expenditures of the Plan amounted to only YD 21 million or 52% of
the total Plan investments (see Annex 1). Since then the Government has started
a national five-year Development Plan covering FY's 75-79. Total proposed
investment under this Plan amounts to YD 75.4 million or an average of YD 15.1
annually. Total planned investments in the communications and transport sector
amount to YD 19.1 million of which YD 16.3 million is allocated to roads. The
proposed project to rehabilitate the Port of Aden was not included in this
Plan. In view of recent developments, such as the reopening of the Suez
Canal, and as a result of steep increases in international prices, the Gov-
ernment is reviewing annually its sectoral and total allocations in the
five-year Plan to bring them in line with the available financing and oppor-
tunities.
2.08      In summary, given the human, financial and economic resources avail-
able in PDRY, the policy planning and coordination of the transport sector is
adequate.



- 4-
III.  THE PORT
A. The Yemen Ports aud Shipping Corporation
3.01      The Yemen Ports and Shipping Corporation (YPSC) is responsible for
all ports and shipping activities in the country. It was established under
Law No. 19 in 1973 and is a corporate body with financial and administrative
independence attached to the Ministry of Communications. The YPSC has four
operational units attached to it, namely, The Port of Aden Authority (PAM), The
National Shipping Company (NSC), The National Dockyard Company (NDC), and Aden
Coasters Company. The ultimate beneficiaries of the proceeds of the proposed
credit will be the first three units which are more fully described below.
The Aden Coasters Company, as yet, has no management of its own and is
administered by the NSC.
3.02      The YPSC is controlled by a Board whose present Chairman is the
Minister of Communications. The remainder of the Board is designated by law
to be comprised of the Director Generals of the four units, four repre-
sentatives of the workers, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Economy,
the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Communications and a person of
experience and competence. The YPSC's responsibilities cover all operations
and industries directly involved with shipping and ports. Such diverse
activities as ship construction and repair, training of sailors for the
merchant marine, and the establishment of free zones and markets in ports,
are controlled by the YPSC in addition to the normal ship-handling and
cargo-handling activities. The YPSC exercises a policy and budgetary control
function delegating day to day operations to the units. Importantly, the
YPSC has the legal obligation to specify charges and tariffs for all port
services after consent of the Minister of Communications who, as noted above,
is the present Chairman of the YPSC Board.
3.03      Overall planning for the YPSC has been undertaken to date by the
planning unit of the PAM. Recognizing the need for comprehensive planning for
the next five- to ten-year period, the Government obtained the assistance of
the Kuwait Fund to finance a Port Development Study.  Terms of Reference
satisfactory to the Association were drawn up for this Study which will
define a five-year Master Plan for the port and suggest changes to increase
their efficiency beyond the immediate needs for rehabilitation and organiza-
tional changes in the proposed project. Details are shown in Annex 3. The
Study is being supervised by the Kuwait Fund who report satisfactory progress
towards completion of the Study in September 1975.



-5-
B. Facilities
3.04      The PDRY has one major port, in Aden, and a small cabotage port at
Al Mukalla with regular service, plus several other coastal ports (see Map IBRD
11045). The cabotage ports are nothing more than open beaches from which
lighterage is used to transfer cargo between ship and shore. Aden is one of
the world's largest bunkering and service ports with 30 berths. Its layout is
shown in Map IBRD 11525R. Cargo transfer is achieved by lighterage. Further
description of Aden's port facilities is given in Annex 4.
C. Organization and Management
The Yemen Ports and Shipping Corporation (YPSC)
3.05      The YPSC has, under the Law, two permanent staff positions, namely
a Secretary General and a Director of Finance. Presently, the secretarial
duties are handled by the Secretary of the Director General of the PAM. The
Director of Finance is the former Chief Accountant of the PAA and is respon-
sible for the financial systems employed by the YPSC and its units. He is
assisted by an Assistant Director who was previously with NSC. The exercise
of the duties of the YPSC under the present organizational arrangements leaves
much of the day to day coordination of the activities of each of the units to
the Director General of the PAA who is, in effect, operating as a Managing
Director for the YPSC. The coordination of activities is a considerable task
which should be the responsibility of a full-time Managing Director. Similarly,
the planning function within the YPSC is being executed by the present Planning,
Statistics and Research Manager of the PAA. This function could best be per-
formed from a position on the staff of the YPSC itself and excluded from the
staff of the units. The Government has agreed to establish positions for and
appoint to YPSC staff a Managing Director and a Planner as conditions of ef-
fectiveness of the proposed credit. With the expectation that the demands for
service in the Port of Aden will increase significantly with the reopening of
the Suez Canal, a comprehensive training program for all levels of employees
will be required. Studies to establish such a program have been included in
the Terms of Reference for the Port Development Study. Finance for Technical
Assistance in the form of a Training Adviser for one year has been included
in the proposed Project, and the YPSC has agreed to the Adviser's appointment
by December 31, 1975. In addition to the above requirements, all units in the
YPSC need ready access to legal advice on matters covering their activities.
The Government has recently improved the availability, and has agreed to retain
the adequacy, of legal services to YPSC.



-6-
The Port of Aden Authority (PAA)
3.06      The PAA is responsible for operations and maintenance of most
physical assets in the country involved in the provision of port services.
These assets include the berths, sheds, buoys, cargo-handling equipment, and
floating equipment required in the control and handling of ships in the
harbor. It provides pilotage services and is responsible for safe navigation
and use of the port. However, the PAA does not provide labor or floating
craft for cargo-handling, this being the responsibility of NSC. Besides the
Port of Aden, under law the PAA has administrative responsibility for the Port
of Al Mukalla, but such control has not been implemented to date. There are
no other commercial ports operating regularly in PDRY.
3.07      The organization of the PAA is indicated in Annex 5, which shows the
delegation of responsibility from the Director General, who functions as a
General Manager, to six Managers with separate responsibilities. Total staff
presently number 1,244 of which 163 are management and administration staff.
This level of staffing is about 200 below pre-Suez-closure peak. Excluding
cargo-handling (see para. 3.18) and floating craft maintenance (see para.
3.21) this overall organizational structure and the management personnel
involved operate efficiently. However, the demands placed upon them by the
present level of traffic are not comparable with those that can be expected
with the return of some traffic following the reopening of the Suez Canal.
3.08      Training to date has been organized and supervised from within the
Planning Department of the PAM. In the period prior to the availability of
graduates from the training program to be defined in the Port Development
Study, the PAM will require technical assistance in the form of individual
experts in several departments. Finance for the employment of a cost ac-
counting expert for a period of three years has been included in the proposed
project (see para. 5.09). Commitments from bilateral sources have been
received for technical assistance in port engineering, electrical engineering,
and for ships' pilots giving adequate support for local staff (see para. 3.17).
3.09      A problem in all units of YPSC which has potentially serious long-
range consequences to the ability of YPSC to retain staff is the salary and
wage structure. This is demonstrated in Annex 6 prepared on information
pertaining to PAA. This Annex shows a small income differential between
employees of different skill and responsibility level. The Government is
aware of this problem and, as a partial response, is in the process of
developing a bonus system for increases in productivity which may alleviate
this problem as it applies to the lower levels of responsibility. Given the
widespread implications of any changes in the wage and salary structure, the
Association can do little other than to express its concern and it must be
left to the Government to furnish a solution.



- 7-
The National Shipping Company (NSC)
3.10      The NSC is responsible for all ship agency work in PDRY, supplying
all services to ships except fuel bunkers. In addition NSC is responsible
for all cargo-handling on board ship and on shore. To execute these functions
NSC owns and maintains a fleet of tugs, launches, cargo lighters, and water
barges. NSC rents dockside cargo-handling equipment from PAA. Operations are
centered on Aden but a small branch exists to provide cargo-handling services
at Al Mukalla Port.
3.11      The NSC is organized as indicated in Annex 7, along similar lines
to PAA. Present staff totals 332 excluding cargo-handling labor. Cargo-
handling labor available for work numbers about 1,300.
3.12      The management and administrative staff of NSC is young and energetic
but lacking in experience in handling the volume of work that can be expected
with the opening of the Suez Canal. The training scheme for all aspects of
NSC's agency and cargo-handling work is required and will be defined under the
Port Development Study. As with the PAA, in the period prior to the avail-
ability of graduates from such a training scheme, technical assistance is
required for ship agency management, cost accounting, and cargo-handling
operations. Commitments from bilateral sources have been received for ade-
quate assistance in each of these areas.
3.13      The Aden Coasters Company is managed by the NSC as a subsidiary (see
Annex 7). NSC owns the assets and rents them to the Aden Coasters Company.
These assets consist of four general cargo vessels of 300 NRT, 600 NRT, 1,500
NRT, and one of 1,600 NRT. The last three vessels were only recently pur-
chased and give the Company considerably more capacity than it has management
expertise to handle. During the appraisal, no in-depth analysis of the
requirements of this Company was undertaken. However, a commitment from
bilateral sources of technical assistance to review the future role of this
company has been accepted by the Government.
The National Dockyard Company (NDC)
3.14      The NDC offers ship and machinery repair service to all parties.  It
operates the only heavy machine shop in PDRY and its other principal asset is
a 300 ft long broadside slipway capable of handling vessels up to 1,500 DWT.
NDC has also manufactured some small craft and lighters. The organization
of NDC is in Annex 8. The number of employees presently totals 350. The
technical expertise and skilled manpower, while covering most aspects of ship
repair, is very thinly distributed throughout the Company. With the capability
of the machinery and other equipment available, the organizational structure
is adequate but technical assistance in the form of individual experts is re-
quired immediately to successfully capture a share of the expected market for
ship repair. One major deficiency exists in the cost accounting section which
is further discussed in para. 5.09. A comprehensive t:aining program is re--
quired and will be defined under the Port Development Study. Again, in the



8-
inLerim, finance for technical assistance covering cost accounting, and naval
architecture, has been included in the proposed project. Required technical
assistance in marine engineering, mechanical engineering, electrical engineering
and refrigeration engineering has been secured from bilateral sources.
D. Operations
3.15      The dominating activity in Aden is the bunkering and servicing of
ships. Cargo operations are executed in general so as not to hinder the
dominant activity. Prior to the 1967 closure of the Suez Canal, Aden had a well
founded reputation for efficiency of all operations. The present staff have
not had the experience of handling the relatively large volume of ships that
can be expected with the Canal open but, in general, the physical and proce-
dural system remains intact. It is expected that the organizations involved
in operations can, with the technical assistance contained in the proposed
project and committed from bilateral sources, gear up to handle the forecast
traffic's demands for service.
3.16      The bunkering of ships in Aden is provided through facilities on
various jetties, berths, and other real estate owned by the PAA. These
facilities have been leased to oil companies (British Petroleum, Caltex,
Esso, Mobil, Yemeni-Kuwait) on leases ranging from 20 to 90 years. The oil
companies have made the necessary investment in tanks, pumps, pipelines, and
barges, to provide bunkering service. Maintenance by the oil companies of
these facilities has been adequate since the closure of the Canal. Appraisal
of requirements to service increased traffic resulting from the reopening of
the Canal has been completed by the oil companies. Existing capacity is
sufficient to handle most of the forecast traffic and no problems of supply
are anticipated.
3.17      In the field of ship-handling (i.e. pilotage, mooring, etc.) present
procedures are satisfactory but much of the equipment (tugs, pilot launches,
mooring launches, and communications gear) is overage and worn out (see paras.
4.04 to 4.08). In addition there are insufficient pilots now in the port
to handle the forecast volume of traffic.  Hence, commitments for technical
assistance for pilotage have been sought and received by the Government from
bilateral sources.  A training scheme for-local pilots has been established
at the Arab Institute for Maritime Studies in Alexandria, Arab Republic of
Egypt, but graduates will not be available for about three years.
3.18      In respect of cargo-handling the port now handles about half the dry
cargo tonnage it handled prior to Canal closure. All cargo-handling is carried
out by NSC but using equipment supplied by PAM. It is expected that dry cargo
traffic will not increase significantly in the next five years (see Annex 9);
however, many improvements could be made to improve cargo-handling efficiency.
Such improvements will be detailed after an in-depth study which is part of
the Port Development Study. However, two organizational problems stand out.



-9-
3.19      The major problem is the division in responsibility for cargo-
handling by having NSC responsible for all cargo movement while only supplying
labor and floating craft, with PAA being responsible for all land cargo-handling
equipment and storage. One entity should be responsible for all elements of
the cargo-handling activity so that responsibility and the means of execution
reside in the one organization. Presently NSC has a minor conflict of interest
in its dual role of ships agent and cargo-handler and it is suggested that it
be relieved of all responsibilities for cargo-handling. Ideally, a separate
cargo-handling unit would be established; however, available human and equip-
ment maintenance resources, in YPSC or PDRY in general, may rule out this
alternative. It has been agreed, in these circumstances, that YPSC shall by
December 31, 1975 discuss and agree with the Association to consolidate all
cargo handling facilities and operations in PAA or any other such entity as
may be agreed.
3.20      The second problem is that shore gangs are paid piece rates while
ship gangs are paid hourly rates. In FY73, this resulted in an average rate
of 10 tons/gang hour on ship to be compared with 24 tons/gang hour on shore.
S-hore gangs average about 32 workers with ship gangs about 25 workers, but it
remains that a serious imbalance exists in the system and that both gangs
should be paid on a common basis. The YPSC has agreed to the establishment
by December 31, 1975 of a common basis for payment of all cargo gangs, agreed
with the Association.
3.21      Maintenance of equipment and facilities is satisfactory when the
severe constraint on spares and materials resulting from foreign exchange
shortage is taken into account. However, much of the equipment is overage
and should be scrapped. The proposed project will provide replacements for
the most urgently needed equipment. Another problem is that maintenance
facilities appear to be inefficiently distributed between the three units of
YPSC. Each unit has its own workshop. While NDC's whole operation centers
on its workshop facilities, they are not significantly different in capacity
to PAA workshop facilities. Hence, considerable redundancies exist which
are not acceptable especially in an economy such as PDRY's. The facilities
of NSC are capable only of minor maintenance work on its floating craft and
should be amalgamated with those of either NDC's or PAA's. Similarly, all
facilities for major repair and overhaul work on PAA's equipment should be
concentrated in NDC where utilization would be much higher. The routine
maintenance load on PAA equipment is considerable and will be even greater
if NSC's floating craft are transferred (see para 3.19). The definition of
responsibilities and duties between NDC and PAA following the rationalization
of workshop facilities in Aden requires study and this will be undertaken in
the Port Development Study. The Association has an agreement from the YPSC
that results of this study should be reviewed with the Association and an
agreed rationalized structure implemented by June 30, 1976.



- 10 -
E.  Traffic
Past Traffic
3.22       It must be emphasized that Aden is a service rather than a cargo
port. In the past its location close to shipping lanes through the Suez
Canal, its efficiency of operations, the availability of relatively cheap
bunkers, and its free port status, all contributed to its popularity. With
the closure of the Suez Canal in mid-1967, activities in Aden reduced by
1973 to about 25% of 1966 level.  This is illustrated in the following Table:
1966        1973        % 1973 of 1966
No. of ships                         6,246        1,320            21%
NRT of ships                    31,426,000  5,542,000              18%
Dry cargo imports (t)              647,000    310,000              48%.
Dry cargo exports (t)              184,000      65,000             35%
Oil cargo imports (t)            8,072,000  3,343,000              41%
Oil cargo exports (t)            3,985,000  2,724,000/1            68%
Oil bunkering (t)                3,851,000    338,000               9%
Water bunkering (t)                434,000       12,000             2%
Passengers                         142,000       4,300              3%
/1   Prom Aden BP refinery.
Full details of traffic from FY66 to FY74 are given in Annex 10.
Future Traffic
3.23       Since the 1967 closure of the Suez Canal many significant changes
have occurred that have and will continue to influence the level of traffic
demand in Aden.
3.24      In regard to the bunkering trade, the most significant change has
been in ship technology and hence the relative importance of the cost compo-
nents of operating a ship. In summary the importance of time as a determinant
of cost has grown to where new large cargo vessels almost exclusively bunker
where they load and disclharge cargo. These effects were becoming apparent in
1966/67 and analysis of voyage costs by the appraisal mission suggests they
will continue. Similarly, most new ships produce their own potable water
hence obviating this need for a service stop.
3.25      Notwithstanding these developments, there remains a significant
number of productive tramp ships, liners, passenger vessels and bulk carriers,
which will find it economically attractive to call at Aden for service. The
forecast of vessels by NRT category, by number and aggregate tonnage is given
in Annex 9. This forecast is based on the following data:



- 11 -
(a) Past traffic in Aden.
(b) Past traffic in Suez C>nnal.
(c) Forecasts of Suez Canal traffic, prepared by consultants for
the appraisal of the project to reopen the Canal (Loan 1064-ECT).
(d) Estimated ship operating costs.
(e) Estimated bunker cost differentials between Aden and ports in
other parts of the world.
In analyzing this information, one important assumption was that Aden will
retain its historic share of the bunker trade vis-a-vis competing ports in
the region, principally Djibouti, Hodeida, Assab, Jeddah and the Suez Canal
ports. The justification for this assumption lies in the absence of change
in the bunkering ability at these competing ports, with respect to the speed
of turn-around and the cost of bunkers. In fact, the increased cargo-handling
operations at these competing ports and the concomitant congestion suggests a
deterioration in the services to "bunkers only" trade, which is the primary
concern of Aden. To define the available market for Aden, ships were
categorized by type (that is, tramps, liners, etc.) and tonnage, and a sepa-
rate analysis made of each category of the costs to bunker in Aden as compared
to bunker at other ports in Europe or the Far East. This analysis indicated
that only tramps, liners, passenger vessels and bulk carriers in ballast would
receive economic benefits by bunkering in Aden. The assumption was then made
that ship owner's preferences regarding the scheduling of voyages and ports of
call would be reflected in the past relationships between traffic transiting
the Suez Canal and traffic calling at Aden, and that these preferences would
apply in the future. These relationships were then defined for each tonnage
class and applied to the potential traffic calling at Aden, as defined in the
cost analysis. The resulting forecast may be summarized as showing all pass-
enger vessels and virtually all vessels of less than S,000 NRT that transit
the Suez Canal will call at Aden, but that only about 10% of vessels larger than
8,000 NRT in the category of tramps, liners and bulk carriers will call. This
represents about 43% of all traffic (excluding tankers and container vessels)
transiting the Suez Canal, a further 20% calling at other ports in the region.
The forecast shows a return to the total NRT of 1966 by the year 1979, but with
a reduced number of vessels calling.
3.26      In terms of dry cargo movements, the data (see Annex 10) shows a
25% drop from 1966 to 1967 reflecting the impact of the departure of the
British from Aden. In addition, the data shows the decline of the reexport
or transit trade with the development of competing regional ports at Djibouti,
Hodeida, Assab and Jeddah, together witlh the imposition in 1971 of sn excise
and customs duty law. A free trade zone has been established to mitigate tile
effects of such duties on the transit traffic. Given the developments in
other general cargo ports in the region and the prospects for PDRY's economy,
it is not expected that dry cargo movements will increase dramatically from
their present level. Forecasts are given in Annex 9.



- 12 -
F. The Development Plan
3.27      There is no Development Plan existing which takes the reopening of
the Suez Canal into account. The most recent in-depth study of port develop-
ment in PDRY was a study of Aden by the Economist Intelligence Unit presented
in 1965. It could not and did not foresee the region's major political changes,
together with their physical consequences, and is no longer valid. With the
prospect of the Suez Canal reopening, the Government requested the assistance
of the Association to finance the immediate needs for rehabiliting Aden, and
the assistance of the Kuwait Fund to finance a Port Development Study. As
noted in para. 3.03 the Terms of Reference for the Study (see Annex 3) are
acceptable to the Association. The Kuwait Fund is supervising the Study's
execution, and it is not included in the proposed project. The Study will
provide a five-year Master Plan of public investment in Aden together with
organizational and procedural changes necessary to increase the efficiency of
the port system.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objective
4.01      The project has as its general objective the generation of foreign
exchange revenues to PDRY. The project will assist in the rehabilitation of
the Port of Aden to make it again a safe and adequate servicing port for the
expected increase in traffic with the reopening of the Suez Canal and improve
the efficiency of operations through institutional improvements (paras 3.19,
3.20 and 3.21).
B.  Description -/
4.02      The project consists of the procurement of:
(a)  Floating Equipment
PAA: 2 tugs (1500 HP, 750 HP), 4 mooring launches (50 HP,
length 30 ft), 2 pilot launches (2 x 150 HP, length 50 ft),
hydrographic launch (2 x 100 HP, length 40 ft);
1/   In designating the unit that will be the recipient of project items,
the existing organizational structure has been used.



- 13 -
NSC: 4 water barges (250 ton capacity), 26 cargo barges (150 ton
capacity), 3 flat top barges (200 ton capacity);
NDC: service launch (150 HP, length 60 ft).
(b) Cargo-Handling Equipment
PAM: 3 mobile cranes (one each 10 ton, 20 ton, 30 ton), 10 fork
lifts (3-5 ton), 3 tractors, 12 trailers (12 ton), 500 pallets;
NDC: tower crane (15 ton), mobile crane (20 ton), capstan
winches (4);
(c) Workshop Equipment for NDC, Spares and Stocks for all units. 1/
(d) Diving team equipment for PAA and NDC.
(e) Navigation, Mooring and Communications Equipment for PAA.
(f) Civil Works
PAA: Minor Dredging (by contract)
(g) Technical Assistance
YPSC: Training adviser for one year, technical assistance
(6 man months) for preparing tender documents for equipment
and civil works procurement, plus two experts for revaluation
of assets (6 man months each).
PAA:  Expert in cost accounting for three years.
NDC:  Experts in naval architecture and cost accounting;
each for three years.
1/ InWcludes parts for repair of some dolphin fenders for PAA, engine
spares for NSC launches, and parts for repair of Broadside Sllp for
NDC.



- 14 -
C. Engineering Evaluation
General
4.03      The general principle used in the engineering evaluation was to
provide the port with the minimum capability to supply satisfactory service
primarily through the replacement of overage and non-repairable equipment (see
Annex 4).
Floating Craft
4.04      The evaluation of requirements of the port for floating craft used
in ship handling was based on data of procedures and efficiency attained in
1966 as applied to the traffic forecast. Comparing these requirements with
the number and condition of available craft gives minimum new craft required
to serve the forecast traffic. For barges, efficiency based on 1966 figures
was used to define requirements for forecast traffic which, when compared
with existing number and condition, gave the required number of new barges.
Cargo-Handling Equipment
4.05      This equipment will provide replacements for existing overage
machines. The inclusion of fork lifts will provide a minimum capability for
the efficient handling of palletized cargo until the full assessment of cargo-
handling methods is completed in the Port Development Study. The cranes, and
capstan winches for NDC are to replace old worn out equipment.
Workshop Equipment
4.06      These requirements have been based on ensuring that YPSC as a whole
is provided with a minimum complete ship and machinery repair and maintenance
facility to be ultimately operated by NDC. The new equipment will replace
overage and worn out equipment which can no longer be operated or repaired
efficiently.
Diving Equipment
4.07      Again these requirements have been formulated to reestablish YPSC's
ability in this field. It is intended ultimately to locate this equipment in
NDC with appropriate safeguards to ensure availability to PAM in emergencies.
Navigation, Mooring and Communications Equipment
4.08      The requirements here were based on necessity for safe operations
with high numbers of ship movements.



- 15 -
Civil Works
4.09      The dredging required is to remove about three quarters of a mil-
lion cubic yards of material left in several lenses in the harbor after main-
tenance dredging completed in 1972 under bilateral assistance from Iraq.
The removal of these lenses would permit the port to publish a depth of 38 ft
as compared to the existing 36 ft, and thereby strengthen the marketing of the
port by being in line with the Suez Canal initial published depth of 38 ft.
The exact extent of dredging will be determined and the work executed after
discussion and agreement between the YPSC and the Association following a
review of the Port Development Study and any additional studies deemed
necessary. Silting is not a problem in Aden and no routine maintenance
dredging is required.
D. Cost Estimate
4.10      The project cost is estimated at US$17.6 million.  It includes
contingency allowances but not customs duties since the YPSC is exempt from
such duties. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$16.8 million.
Annex 11 gives details of the investment plan which is summarized below:



- 16 -
% of
-------------------Project Cost--------------   Project
Project Element       Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
_-_-(YD '000) -----   ------(US$'000)…----
(a) Floating
Equipment           -     3,203   3,203      -      9,288   9,288       53
(b) Cargo-Handling
Equipment           17      310      327     50       898     948        5
(c) Workshop Equip-
ment               109      983   1,092    317    2,850   3,167         18
(d) Diving Team
Equipment           -        58       58     -        168     168        1
(e) Navigation, Moor-
ing and Communi-
cations Equipment  -         25       25     -         72      72        1
(f) Civil Works         58      329      387    169       956   1,125        6
Subtotal          184    4,908   5,092    536   14,232  14,768         84
Physical Contingency/a  6         37      43      19      106      125       1
Price Contingency/b    26       659      685      75    1,912   1,987       11
Subtotal          216    5,604   5,820    630   16,250  16,880         96
(g) Technical Assist-
ance                48      190      238    140       550     690        4
Total             264    5,794   6,058    770   16,800  17,570        100
/a   Physical Contingency of 11% has been included for the civil works.
lb   Price Contingencies are:  (i) on equipment:  14% - 1975, 12% - 1976;
(ii) on civil works: 18% - 1975, 16% - 1976.
The cost estimates for equipment, civil works and technical assistance are
based on prices for similar items and services procured in the region and
reflect cost levels as at December 1974. All items are expected to be pro-
cured from abroad and costs for equipment given are cif. The cost estimates
were discussed and agreed at negotiations.
E. Financing
4.11      Financing of the project is proposed to be by a credit of US$3.2
million from the Association plus a parallel loan from the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development for US$13.6 million equivalent, together
with US$0.8 million contribution from the YPSC from the cash resources of
the PAA and NSC which are in excess of present requirements. The Associa-
tion's Credit will be on the normal terms and conditions and the Arab Fund



- 1 7 -
Loan will be at 4% for a period of 20 years with a grace period of three years.
The conclusion of satisfactory agreements for meeting project cost is a con-
dition of effectiveness for the Association Credit.
4.12      The proposed financing plan is given below under which the Associa-
tion would finance the total cost of 4 water barges in item (a) and all of
items (d) and (e) and the foreign exchange cost of item (b) and the technical
assistance element (g).
Asso-   Arab                   Asso-    Arab
Project Element   ciation  Fund   YPSC   Total   ciation  Fund    YPSC   Total
(YD 'oon)                       (US$ '000)
(a) Floating         414   2,789      -   3,203    1,200   8,088      -      9,288
Equipment
(b) Cargo-Handling  310      -       17     327       898     -       50       948
Equipment
(c) Workshop          -      983   109   1,092         -    2,850    317    3,167
Equipment
(d) Diving Team       58     -       -       58       168     -       -        168
Equipment
(e) Navigation,       25     -      -        25        72     -       -         72
Mooring and
Communications
Equipment
(f) Civil Works       -      329    58      387        -      956    169    1,125
Sub-Total       807   4,101   184   5,092    2,338  11,894    536   14,768
Contingencies    92      604    32      728       267   1,751      94    2,112
(a   -   f)__ __ _ _
Subtotal        899   4,705   216   5,820    2,605  13,645    630   16,880
(g) Technical        190     -       48     238       550     -       140      690
Assistance
TOTAL         1,089   4,705   264   6,058    3,155  13,645    770   17,570
% of Total       18     78      4      100        18      78      4       100
4.13      Since the Association's Credit and the Arab Fund's Loan are on con-
cessionary terms, the proceeds of both shall be passed from the Borrower to
the YPSC under a single subsidiary Loan Agreement. These arrangements have
been discussed and agreed at negotiations.
4.14      Given that the economic benefits to PDRY from the proposed project
are all derived primarily from users outside the PDRY economy, and given
that one criterion in the establishment of appropriate levels of port charges
is the cost of the provision of port services, then the terms of the on-lend-
ing from the Borrower to the YPSC should reflect quasi commercial terms. It
is recommended that these terms be an interest rate of 10% per annum with a
term of 15 years and a two year grace period. The Association has received
the Borrower's agreement to such terms.



- 18 -
F. Project Execution, Procurement and Disbursement
4.15      The YPSC is competent to execute the project with the proposed
technical assistance for the preparation of tender documents and evaluation
of tenders. The engineering departments, notably of PAA, have had some ex-
perience in the procurement of equipment but are judged to be not sufficiently
competent to prepare and evaluate tenders. Majority of items can be procured
by the end of March 1976 with only the larger floating craft requiring a longer
procurement period to December 1977 and technical assistance to December 1978.
4.16      Procurement for project equipment elements financed under the
Association's Credit will be through internationally advertised competitive
bidding in accordance with the Association's guidelines. Experts for tech-
nical assistance will be employed on principles in accordance with the "Uses
of Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrowers". Procurement of goods
financed by the Arab Fund will be in accord with Arab Fund rules on procure-
ment. The administrative arrangements for review and approval of procurement
and recruitment of technical assistance experts were discussed and agreed with
the Government and Arab Fund at negotiations.
4.17      Disbursements will be on the basis of 100% of the costs (cif) of the
floating, diving, and navigation equipment items and 100% of the foreign ex-
change cost of the cargo-handling equipment, workshop equipment, and civil
works items, and the technical assistance element. To enable the prompt
preparation of tender documents, it is recommended that technical assistance
of up to US$25,000 be financed from the credit retroactively to August 1, 1975.
G. Environmental Impact
4.18      With the domination of bunkering activities in the operation of the
Port of Aden, there are special problems in the control of pollution, especial-
ly oil pollution. However, Aden has had much experience in dealing with these
problems and has an enviable reputation for dealing with them successfully.
At the present, there is little visible evidence of pollution from ships in
the harbor. The pollution that is evident comes primarily from large outfalls
dumping sewage into the upper reaches of the inner harbor. Ihe Government is
aware of such problems and discussed the water supply and sewerage sector with
an Association mission in September 1972. The Government is currently seeking
bilateral assistance for feasibility studies of both a sewerage project and a
municipal waste based fertilizer project in the Aden area.
4.19      The PAA has laws and rules providing satisfactory procedures,
requirements for safeguards, and inspections against oil and other pollution.
These laws and rules are backed by provision of a system of fines, impounding
of vessels, and imprisonment of the Master. It should be noted that the ac-
quisition of the two new tugs proposed in the project will enhance the fire-
fighting ability available in the Port.



- 19 -
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
The Yemen Ports and Shipping Corporation (YPSC)
A.   General
5.01      The YPSC Board defines financial systems and policy for all units
and administers them through a Financial Manager and two other staff members.
At the present time accounts of the Port of Aden Authority (PAA) are on a
double account type of system (public accounting without depreciation but
with an assets depreciation and renewal reserve), while the National Shipping
Company (NSC) and the National Dockyard Company (NDC) are on a commercial-type
accounting system. A committee exists to establish a commercial accounting
system in PAA so that all units will report on the same basis. The Associa-
tion has the Borrower's agreement that such a system be established no later
than December 31, 1976.
5.02      The NDC and NSC have operated profitably since their formulation in
1969. PAA has also operated profitably in most years, the notable exception
being 1968 because of the drop in traffic following closure of the Suez Canal.
The NSC and NDC are expected to continue operating at a profitable level.  The
PAA can be expected, in the immediate future, to operate at a loss but still
generate sufficient cash to meet debt repayment requirements without a tariff
increase.
5.03      The YPSC, (i.e. the units as a group), is expected to show a profit
in all years except 1976 on an overall basis even without an increase in
tariffs, the loss in 1976 being due to the impact of additional staffing costs
and debt and capital charges prior to the build-up of Suez traffic in Aden.
The following table summarizes the revenues and expenses for the units and the
net position of the YPSC.
('000 YD)
Actual      ---       Forecast -
Revenue                                    1974        1976       1978        1980
Port of Aden Authority                 786        935       1,818       1,855
National Shipping Company            1,816      1,899       2,691       2,788
National Dockyard Company              494         580        770         900
TOTAL                          3,096       3,414       5,279      5,541
Expenses (including Income Tax)
Port of Aden Authority                 715      1,411       1,948       1,993
National Shipping Company            1,439       1,572      2,127       2,175
National Dockyard Company              454         526        719         799
TOTAL                          2,608       3,509      4,794       4,967
Net Profit                             488         (95)       485         574
Cash Flow                              547        339       1,195      1,284



- 20 -
B.   Tariffs
5.04      Tariffs and rates for services offered by the YPSC units are estab-
lished primarily on the basis of comparison with competitive ports in the
region. However, such comparisons or changes in tariffs have not been made
for many years. Aggregate cost coverage of total revenues is another measure
used by the YPSC Board to measure financial performance but no detailed serv-
ice specific cost information exists. In general, tariffs on ships are based;
on NRT on cargoes, by measurement of tons and value, and on imported and
exported POL by tons. The whole area of tariff policy and setting is ill-
defined and requires complete review. Such a review is required under the
Terms of Reference of the Port Development Study, including establishing
minimum cost-based levels, maximum competitive levels, and recommended
strategies of tariff setting to maximize foreign exchange earnings to the
country. The Association has the Borrower's agreement to: (a) set by
December 31, 1975 bases and levels of the tariffs to maximize foreign exchange
earnings to the country and to cover the cost of the services rendered; and (b)
the implementation by the end of February 1976 of such tariffs as may be agreed
between it and the Association following the completion of the Port Develop-
ment Study (due about September 1975); and (c) a review of tariffs by March
1977, following the revaluation of assets (see para. 5.10).
C.   Government Financial Policies
5.05      The PDRY Government controls price levels within the country and the
expenditure of funds in all segments of the economy, including the YPSC units.
Income taxes of 37-1/2% are levied on PAA revenues related to NRT of ships and
on NSC and NDC profits calculated on a commercial basis. Of the after-tax
profits, Law No. 11 of 1973 requires that units contribute 50% to the National
Development Plan and 25% for Government's current expenditures, the remaining
25% being retained for re-investment by the units, subject to approval by the
Ministry of Planning.
5.06      Law No. 11 of 1973 has provision for excluding business organizations
from the specified distribution of after-tax profits. The Borrower has agreed
to take all actions as necessary to ensure that YPSCts net revenues are not
less than the sum of 1.5 times the maximum debt service required for any suc-
ceeding year on all debt of the YPSC.
D.   Cost Accounting and Budgets
5.07      Annual budgets are prepared by each unit, with mont'hly, quarterly,
and semi-annual reports prepared to measure progress against budgets. Finan-
cial measures are not used to measure the efficacy of use of capital by the
.Ljts or operating groups within the units.



- 21 -
,.23     An essential element for tariff setting is the establishment of
sound cost accounting. The existing accounting system in all units is
oriented to budget control. The services of all units should be priced to
at least cover costs. However, none of the YPSC staff have the training to
revise rates and tariffs. The result is that such items as the machine rates
used by NDC in bidding on work are taken from rates used by the owners before
1969 while the PAA tariffs are those established by the Port of Aden Trust in
1958, except for some minor revisions between 1958 and 1967. Hence, technical
assistance for improving the cost accounting system and revising tariffs has
been included for the PAA & NDC in the proposed project. Technical assistance
for the NSC on cost accounting has been committed from bilateral sources. The
Port Development Study is to recommend an appropriate cost-accounting system
and tariff-setting basis (para. 5.04).
E.   Auditing
5.09      All auditing in PDRY is carried out by the Central Bureau of Audit
which is an independent Government agency. The Bureau undertakes a continuous
audit of all entries in the YPSC units' accounts. The quality of staff and
procedures are adequate.
F.   Asset Valuation
5.10      The fixed assets accounts shown in Annex 13 do not present the
value of assets using conventional cost-based depreciation and cannot be used
as a basis of meaningfully forecasting future balance sheet positions. The
YPSC has agreed to the required review of assets and their detailed revalua-
tion at replacement costs by December 31, 1976, and technical assistance has
been included in the project. A cursory revaluation of assets is included
in the Terms of Reference for the Port Development Study. These two exer-
cises in asset revaluation will form a base for the tariff reviews (see
para. 5.04).
G.   Insurance
5.11      The PAA, with the exception of workman's compensation, carries its
own insurance and has a reserve in its account to that effect. This reserve
is not segregated or trusteed, so it is meaningful to the extent of the total
cash resources available. The NSC and NDC carry full property and liability
insurance in addition to workman's compensation. All insurance in PDRY is
provided by the Government-run Insurance and Re-Insurance Company of Yemen
(IRCY) who reinsure risks with foreign parties. Given the considerable
value of assets involved in the PAA's operations, it is recommended that
necessary coverage be obtained from the IRCY and the Association has the
Borrower's agreement to such a change.



- 22 -
H.   Consolidated Financial Position
5.12      The balance sheets of the three units for 1974 are shown together
in Annex 13. An overall current assets to current liabilities ratio of 3.5,
and satisfactory liquidity at each of the units, is a good achievement in
view of the economic difficulties since 1966 and indicates the effectiveness
of the budgetary control over expenses. The NDC has debts amounting to 32% of
invested capital, the other two units being debt free. As mentioned above
(para. 5.10), the asset accounts are not meaningful and, together with the
rest of the balance sheets, have not been forecast into the future. The es-
tablishment of asset-based measures of financial efficiency should await the
completion of a revaluation of assets (see para. 5.10). The Association has
the Borrower's agreement, in principle, to establishing such ratios by March
1977, three months after completion of the revaluation.
5.13      A summary of financial performance for the YPSC was presented in
para. 5.03. A more detailed picture of past and future financial performance
is presented in the consolidated income statements (see Annex 15), and the
consolidated forecast cash flow statement in Annex 16. On a conservative
basis the YPSC is expected to increase its net cash position by YD 6.1 mil-
lion over the 1975-81 period after meeting debt obligations but before any
capital expenditures subsequent to this project. The future earnings of the
units are based on the traffic forecast and existing tariff levels. Operating
costs are also projected on the basis of forecast traffic with increases in
unit material costs reflecting foreign market trends but no increases (or
decreases) in unit salary and wage levels. In PDRY the latter assumption is
reasonable given the demonstrated ability of the Government to control remune-
ration levels. (These have actually decreased since 1967.)
5.14      In order to protect YPSC's financial viability it is recommended
and the Association has obtained the Borrower's assurance that it will seek
the Association's agreement before YPSC incurs debt if net disposable revenues
are less than 1.5 times the maximum resultant total debt service for any suc-
ceeding year. No such provision is necessary for the individual units since
they are subject to YPSC's financial control. The financial position of each
unit, together with assumptions relevant to the forecasts, is presented in
Annex 14.
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.01      The economic activity generated by the Port of Aden dominated the
economy of the PDRY prior to 1967. In 1967/68 the closure of the Suez Canal
with its resultant loss of port traffic in Aden, and the withdrawal of British



- 23 -
budgetary support caused an estimated 30% drop in GNP or about US$64.0 mil-
lion per annum. It is estimated that the drop in direct revenue of the units
now comprising the YPSC contributed roughly 3% to the drop in GNP. The with-
drawal of British budgetary support directly accounted for roughly 13%. To-
gether this explains roughly half the drop in GNP. In these circumstances and
with the re-emergence of the port-related service industry, the benefits to
PDRY of a return of traffic can be expected to exceed the direct benefits of
increased YPSC revenue although the lack of data makes the accurate quantifi-
cation of the total benefits impossible.
6.02      Inferences can be made regarding the employment generated by in-
creases in port traffic. The number of unemployed immediately after the
1967/68 period rose by roughly 20,000 to 30,000 persons and it can be expect-
ed that a significant proportion of this number will be reemployed with the
resurgence of traffic in the port.
B. Economic Evaluation
6.03      To produce a return of traffic to Aden once the Suez Canal reopens,
the community of international ship owners must view Aden as having the fea-
tures previously seen as attractive. The major elements here were: (i) proxi-
mity to shipping lanes; (ii) safe harbor; (iii) competitively priced bunkers;
(iv) services; and (v) speed of turnaround. Item (i) remains. Item (iii)
remains and is reinforced by the rationalization of prices in the oil industry
whereby prices of bunkers should reflect transport costs from the source of
crude for similar refining technologies. The items (ii), (iv) and (v), are
the aspects which will be enhanced by the proposed project.
6.04      Without the floating, navigation, mooring, and communications equip-
ment items in the project, serious questions could be raised about the safety
of operations above or even at the existing level. The balance of the items
will ensure that cargo transfers do not delay shipping and, in the case of
workshop items, that the port offers a complete line of services to floating
vessels both foreign and domestic as well as service the YPSC fleet. The
technical assistance will both reassure shipowners as to the efficiency of the
port and add experience and ability to several functions not now adequately
covered. In these circumstances, it is reasonable to expect that the forecast
increase in traffic would not occur without the project. Hence, the increase
in YPSC net revenues before tax constitute a measure of the minimum benefits
attributable to the proposed investment. Costs are based on the investment
costs given in Annex 11 excluding price contingencies and increase in operat-
ing expenses given in Annex 14.
6.05      This results in a rate of return (ROR) for 15 year average asset
lives of above 25% for the whole project and for investments in each of the
units of YPSC. No further breakdown of benefits from individual items is



- 24 -
mleaningful given the interdependence of all items in producing system bene-
fits. Sensitivity analysis showed a reduction in overall ROR of about one-
third but still above 25% for a 15% increase in costs and a reduction of
about 40% to 24% for a 25% reduction in benefits (or reduction in traffic).
The ROR is thus acceptable over a wide range of costs and/or benefits.
C. Summary and Conclusions
6.06      The economy of PDRY offers few opportunities for rapid development.
In the past, the Port of Aden has contributed more than any other resource and
with the expected reopening of the Suez Canal the opportunity exists for the
Port to do so again. Without subverting the valid overall strategy to diver-
sify the economy, the Government seeks to capitalize on the opportunity for
the Port to earn important foreign exchange benefits and generate employment.
The proposed project will support this aim of the Government. Using conserva-
tively low estimates of traffic, tariff levels and asset life, the project
yields an ROR above 25%. This, together with additional unquantified benefits
in the regeneration of service industries, makes the proposed project well
justified.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Agreement has been reached on the main issues referred to in the
preceding chapters, and more particularly on the financing plan, the revision
of tariffs and the reorganization of cargo-handling procedures.
7.02      The project provides a suitable basis for an Association Credit of
US$3.2 million to the Government on the usual terms.



ANNEX I
APPRAISAL OF
ADhE PORT PZRii3IITATION PROJRCT
PEOPLE'S DS)ICRATIC REUBLIC OF YEMEN
Planned Public Investments 1972-1974 ard 1975-1979 La
--Total Planned Investments---          Average Annual Planned Investments          ---------Distribution---------
(YD million)                               (D million)
1972-1974            1975-1979            1972-1974            1975-1979            1972-1974            1975-1979
A. Investments by Sector
Agriculture and Fisheries                             10.5                 27.7                  3.5                  5.5                   26                    37
Industry                                               9.7                 13.5                  3.3                  2.7                   24                   18
Transport and Cosmunications                          12.8                 19.1                  4.3                  3.8                   32                   25
Mineral Exploration                                   2.6                   0.9                  0.9                  0.2                    6                    1
Social Services                                       4.7               - 14.2                   i.6                  2.9                   12                   19
TOTAL                                     40.3                  75.4                 13.5                 15.1                  100                   100
B. Source of Finance
Domestic                                              24.5                 34.5                  8.2                  6.9                   61                   46
Foreign                                              15.8                  40.9                  5.3                  8.2                   39                   54
TOTAL                                      10.3                 75.4                 13.5                 15.1                  100                   100
/a  Fiscal years ending March 31. Fiscal years 1972-1974 correspond to the completed Three-Year Development Plan, fical years 1975-1979
correspond to the current Five-Year Development Plan.
Scurce: Quinquennial Plan mor Economic and Social Development (1973/74 - 1978/79), Aden, PDRY, Morch 1974.
August, 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Previous Transport Projects
First Highway Project - Credit 240-YDR
Amount of Credit                     US$1.6 million
Date of Credit Agreement             April 21, 1971
Effective Date                       November 9, 1971
Closing Date                         March 31, 1975 1/
1.        The purpose of this project is to improve the operation and admin-
istration of the highway-related activities of the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW), and to prepare future high priority road construction projects. It
comprises feasibility studies of about 800 km of road and detailed engineer-
ing of about 240 km; procurement of equipment and related spares for main-
tenance, workshops and communications equipment; technical assistance by con-
sultants to reorganize the MPW's highway-related activities with emphasis on
road maintenance and workshop operations; and fellowships for MPW staff. The
UNDP participates in project financing by providing US$673,000 towards con-
sulting services and fellowships. The Bank is executing agency for the UNDP
for this part of the project.
2.        The project started in mid-1971 with commencement of technical
assistance. The Credit became effective in November 1971, and feasibility
studies and detailed engineering started shortly thereafter. Project execu-
tion has generally been satisfactory and the feasibility studies, detailed
engineering and technical assistance have been satisfactorily completed.
Delays have occurred in equipment procurement, largely due to the Government's
cumbersome purchasing system. A reorganization of MPW, recommended by the
technical assistance,. was carried out in 1972, and cost accounting and equip-
ment pool systems are being set up as recommended by the consultants. Pro-
gress, however, is hampered by the lack of skilled personnel; the Government
has therefore requested, and been granted, an extension of the Credit closing
date to March 31, 1975,,to permit full utilization of Credit funds for equip-
ment purchases.
1/   Extended from June 30, 1974.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Engineering Credit S-12 YDR
Amount of Credit                     US$560,000
Date of Credit Agreement             November 17, 1972
Effective Date                       April 13, 1973
Closing Date                         March 31, 1975 1/
1.        By mid-1972, feasibility studies under the First Highway Project,
financed by Credit 240-YDR, had identified as the highest priority road con-
struction project the 320 km long Al Mukalla-Al Riyan-Saywun Road and the
35 km As Said-Ataq Road in the Fourth Governorate. Credit 240-YDR, however,
contained provision and funds for detailed engineering of only about 240 km.
The studies indicated that it would not be beneficial to reduce the length
of the project roads. The need was also identified for a branch road between
Al Riyan and the important fishing town of Ash Shihr. Since other sources of
financing, such as the UNDP, was not available the Government requested that
the Association finance the detailed engineering cost in excess of that
provided for in Credit 240-YDR. In view of the delays (largely due to the
inexperience of available staff) in implementing the recommendations from the
First Highway Project for organizational improvements in the MPW, further
technical assistance to the MPW was also included.
2.        The work has progressed well.  Detailed engineering for the
Al Makalla-Al Rian-Saywun and Al Riyan-Ash Shihr Roads were completed on
schedule in November 1973, and bids were received in July 1974. In early
1973, the final alignment of the Am Ayn-Al Makalla Road, under construction
with bilateral assistance from the People's Republic of China, was changed
to pass through Nagabah instead of Ataq; the As Said-Ataq road would there-
fore no longer connect with this main road, and detailed engineering of the
As Said-Ataq road was eliminated from the project.
3.        The consultants continued to provide technical assistance as needed
to TPW until expiration of their contract in February 1974. Further technical
assistance is now being provided by experts from the German Democratic Republic,
USSR and Hungary. The proposed Second Highway Project also provides for the
services of technical experts.
Second Highway Project - Proposed Credit
1.        The main component of the proposed project is construction of 358
km of road between Al Makalla and Saywun, with a branch to Ash Shihr. This
road would connect and serve two currently isolated regions with major poten-
tial for agriculture and fisheries development. The project also includes
technical assistance to and training of personnel of the Ministries of Public
Works and Communications, and engineering and economic studies of the Nagabah-
Ataq-Belhan Road. The proposed road construction is an integral part of the
agricultural and fisheries projects, either being implemented or planned in
the Fifth Governorate.
1/   Extended from June 30, 1974.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
2.        During negotiations for the Highway Engineering Credit S-12 YDR the
Government and the Association decided that the Credit would be refinanced
under any subsequent highway project. The US$560,000 proceeds of Credit S-12
YDR will therefore be refinanced from the proceeds of the proposed credit.
3.        The Ministry of Public Works will be responsible for executing the
project which is expected to be conpleted by late 1978.
4.        The total project cost is estimated at US$30.5 million equivalent
with a foreign exchange component of US$21.6 million or about 71%. The Asso-
ciation would finance US$10.75 million (50%) of the foreign cost and US$4.25
million (47%) of the local cost on the usual terms; the Government would
finance US$0.5 million (6%) of the local cost; and the Kuwait Fund which has
agreed to also participate in the-project financing, would finance the
balance, being US$10.5 million (50%) of the foreign cost and US$4.5 million
(47%) of local cost. In the absence of any serious response to the inter-
national tendering of the road construction contracts, the UK Crown Agents
will provide the technical expertise and managerial skills, presently in
short supply in the Ministry of Public Works, needed to operate a special
construction unit to build the project roads.  The Crown Agents' estimated
cost of construction is based on current prices in PDRY. Ihe cost of the
detailed engineering and technical assistance was estimated on the basis of
the cost of recent services of a similar nature in PDRY.
The economic return on the investments in road construction is esti-
mated at about 15%, with a first-year return of about 14%, indicating the
road construction to be well justified and appropriately timed. Benefits
accruing from the technical assistance, and the engineering and economic
studies have not been quantified. These elements are justified on the basis
of increased efficiency of investments and operations in the transport sector
as a whole, as well as assistance to the Government in the necessary improve-
ment, expansion and maintenance of this highway network.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Port Development Study - Terms of Reference 1/
Introduction
1.        The reopening of the Suez Canal and expected increases in the volume
of imports and exports have led the Government of the People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to seek the formulation of a Development Plan for
ports. Port activity in the past was, and in the foreseeable future will be,
focussed on the Port of Aden which, as a result, will be the focus of the
Study. However, increasing economic activity in governorates in the north of
PDRY and in fishing industries have raised for study questions as to the
desirability of investment in one or more cabotage ports such as Makalla.
The Government has decided to undertake the studies with the assistance of
tlLe Kuwait Fund to determine priorities for PDRY's Port Development in keep-
ing with the country's overall development targets. The studies shall
recognize that the immediate requirements of the Yemen Ports and Shipping
Corporation for operating the Port of Aden after the reopening of the Suez
Canal have been defined in a project appraised recently by the World Bank.
Objectives
2.        The overall objective of the Study is to determine the strategy
which will maximize the contribution of the port system to PDRY's economy.
Within this overall objective is the definition of a Five-Year Master Plan
of public investments in ports together with organizational and procedural
changes necessary to increase the efficiency of the port system.
Scope of Work
(a) GENERAL
3.        Consultants shall review all available data, undertake all necessary
field and laboratory investigation and perform all analyses necessary to
achievd the objectives of the Study. In reaching these objectives, Consult-
ants will cooperate fully with the Government and its agents. The following
1/   These Terms of Reference have been appended to a Kuwait Fund form of
contract which specified conditions of work, reporting requirements,
and timing. The Study, as indicated in the "Scope of Work", is divided
into two phases (Preliminary Study; Master Plan Study), each of four
months' duration.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
listing of studies has been divided into a group of preliminary studies fol-
lowed by a group of studies for the preparation of the Master Plan. The
preliminary studies focus on the preparation of data and the study of the
efficiency of management and operations necessary to formulation of the
Master Plan. The Master Plan Study takes the results and recommendations of
the preliminary studies and determines the economic, financial and engineer-
ing optimal investment plan.
(b) PRELIMINARY STUDIES
4.        The Consultants shall undertake detailed preliminary studies includ-
ing, but not limited to, the following:
(i) Inventories
The Consultants shall determine the extent and condition of
all assets and facilities presently engaged in serving port
traffic. Such a determination shall include a review of all
existing port sites and include a preliminary engineering
determination of the possibility of future development. In
addition, the inventory shall include a brief description of
land access to the port sites. The Consultants shall compile
a record of the nature of the organizations and procedures of
all parties (public and private) involved in the port service,
including the financial arrangements covering capital and
operating financial structure and levels and methods of
collection of charges for port service.
(ii) Traffic Studies
The Consultants shall review any existing traffic f'orecasts
and historic data together with data and forecasts of the
country's economy as a whole.  The Consultants shall then
develop or update detailed traffic forecasts to five- and
ten-year horizons. These forecasts shall be detailed to the
extent of beir.g broken down by type of vessel, including
specification of physical dimensIons, type of service required
,bunkering, ships' chandlery, and cargo (by handling require-
ments eg. palletized, containerized, RO-RO, bulk, etc. and
origin/destination)). The assignment of this traff'ic to
origins/destinations other than Aden is an area of study
further described below. These traffic forecasts should
consider, among other things, the pattern of traffic prior
to and during the closure of the Suez Canal, the expected
changes anticipated with the reopening of the Canal, the
changes in vessel characteristics in terms of physical dimen-
siorns, and bunkering requirements and operating economics.
The forecast should define transit cargo traffic for origins/
destinations both within and outside the countOr. These fore-



ANNEX 3
Page 3
casts will take into special consideration the services offered
or planned in competi:, : ports in the region (East Africa, Red
Sea, Arabian Sea, and irsian Gulf).
Given the dominance of ":he bunkering activities in the Port of
Aden, the forecasting of traffic will depend heavily upon the
level of costs associated with the use of the Port and the
services supplied therein. As such the Consultants shall review
all aspects of the costs incurred by shipping using the Port and
shall determine the appropriateness or otherwise of both the
structure and level of charges now levied by The Yemen Ports and
Shipping Corporation. This area of investigation is directed
primarily towards The Aden Port Authority and the cargo-handling
services of The National Shipping Company. Specific studies
directed towards the services of The National Dockyard Company
are defined below. In assessing the structure of charges the
Consultants shall bear in mind the need to maximize the contri-
bution to PDRY's economy of the total revenues generated by ship-
ping using the Port of which the revenues from direct port charges
are only a portion. Nonetheless, it is seen as desirable that
charges be set to at least cover the cost of providing separate
definable services. In addition, the structure of charges should
be such that efficient utilization of port facilities is encour-
aged. Again the competitive positon of the Port vis-a-vis com-
peting ports in the region should be an essential part of the
investigation.
(iii) Organizational Studies
The Consultants shall review the present organization of units
within The Yemen Ports and Shipping Corporation and make recom-
mendations to improve them. The views of existing Government
agencies and private parties connected with and using the Port
shall be taken into account in formulating the recommendations
to ensure effective functioning of the Port. The Consultants
shall pay particular attention to the existing legal arrange-
ments in Yemen and ensure that recommendations that are made
are within these legal arrangements. Ready-made solutions in
practice in other countries having a different legal background
should not be considered prima facie adequate only because they
are applicable and adequate elsewhere. However, the Consultants
shall recommend changes in legislation should such changes be
necessary for the adequate functioning of port administration
and finance. Based on their recommendations for port organiza-
tion and on the requirements of other bodies, the Consultants
shall also recommend operational and administrative procedures
and staffing and organizational structure of each unit. This
shall include detailed organization charts, definition of
administrative and operational responsibility for key positions



ANNEX 3
Page 4
in the organization and an outline of the appropriate qualifi-
cations for key personnel. Consultants shall take due account
of the limited human resources available. They will avoid the
multiplication of unnecessary bureaucracy and of imprecise job
descriptions. Responsibility will be grouped under one head
wherever possible to make the best use of existing personnel.
The level and timing of staffing shall be specified for the
next ten years. The Consultants shall pay particular attention
to existing problems resulting from the diffusion of responsi-
bility for cargo-handling operations between several units.
Consideration should be given to the establishment of a separate
cargo-handling unit. Similarly, the Consultants shall pay
particular attention to the need to rationalize the workshop and
repair capability of organizations within the port. To this end
it is seen as desirable to provide The National Dockyard Company
with a full capability for ship and engine repair with routine
maintenance capability retained by other units operating floating
craft and equipment. In the Consultants' review of the planning
function of each group, consideration should be given to the
possible consolidation of such basic planning work into one unit
at The National Ports and Shipping Corporation level. The recom-
mendations in regard to planning should include a definition of
the necessary information systems required to perform the planning
function. Similarly, the establishment of a training unit at this
level should be considered in the Consultants' review of the train-
ing requirements necessary to achieve the desired staffing levels.
(iv)  Accounting Systems
The basis of accounting for the units in The Yemen Ports and
Shipping Corporation is under review by a Select Committee.
The Consultants will assist that review and, with the agreement
of the Committee, make recommendations as to the appropriate
accounting systems required for efficient management and finan-
cial control. These systems will also be formulated so as to
produce the cost information required for the tariff studies.
As an essential part of this review and again the deliberations
in regard to tariffs, the Consultants will undertake, as needed,
a revaluation of all assets at replacement cost.
(y) Operations
The Consultants shall review all the operations undertaken bv
the units of The Yemen Ports and Shipping Corporation. They
shall pay particular attention to:
(a) pilotage and navigational services: in this regard
they shall determine the need and make recommendations



ANNEX 3
Page 5
for any improvements in the system used for pilotage,
allocation of berths, mooring, etc., including a
review of port regulations;
(b) cargo-handling systems; the Consultants shall review all
aspects of cargo-handling and make recommendations in
regard to the composition, management, and remuneration
of the labor force together with the appropriate levels
of mechanization required to handle, in the most econo-
mically efficient manner, the volumes of cargo forecast.
This assessment shall define the advantages or otherwise
of discharging cargoes alongside quays as compared to
lighterage.
(vi) National Dockyards Company Studies
In addition to the organizational, financial and operational
studies mentioned above, the Consultants shall undertake a
market study for the services offered or potentially offered
by The National Dockyards Company. This study shall determine,
with due regard to alternative repair facilities in the region,
the optimal size and nature of the repair facilities suitable
to Ader. Such studies shall include a forecast of the potential
costs and revenues for the services and shall explicitly investi-
gate the need for and profitability of the Dockyard acquiring
additional ability to service ship hulls, either in the form of
slipway, drydock, or floating dock.
(vii) Free Zone Study
The Consultants shall outline the potential activities suitable
for establishment within a free zone area. Such study shall
determine the economic advantages of relocating existing indus-
tries and services of the PDRY economy in a free zone. The
Study, in addition, shall formulate Terms of Reference for studies
necessary to prove the economic desirability of establishing new
industries in such a zone.
(c) MASTER PLAN STUDY
5.        The above studies shall provide the basis from which to formulate a
Master Plan of detailed investments in ports over the next five years together
with a tentative plan for a further five years. The Master Plan shall be
supported by studies demonstrating its econimic, financial and engineering
feasibility.
(i) Economic Feasibility Study
In concert with the financial and engineering feasibility studies,
the Consultants shall carry out an economic evaluation of alternative



ANNEX 3
Page 6
port development schemes with the view to determining the
optimal alternative in terms of size and timing in keeping with
the forecast traffic demands. The results of these studies shall
be prepared in such a fashion as to show, first-year benefits
compared with annual economic cost of the investment to justify
the timing; the economic rate of return on the investments which
discounts all benefits and costs to equal present values to demon-
strate the overall economic feasibility of the investment. Appro-
priate analysis of the level of savings in costs of servicing
ships and/or increases in revenue from increased capacity shall
be included. In addition, there will be an explicit determination
of the proportion of savings in ship turnaround time which can
be expected to be passed to the country's economy through increased
revenues and reductions in freight charges as compared with freight
charges which would be expected to be experienced had the invest-
ments not taken place. In completing the economic studies, the
special characteristics of the Port of Aden as primarily a service
rather than a cargo-handling port shall be kept in mind.
(ii) Financial Feasibility Study
The Consultants shall make a financial forecast on a commercial
basis of the financial situation of each unit in the Corporation
for each of the five years following the start of project construc-
tion and of the trend thereafter for five additional years. These
forecasts shall include and identify the impact of the recommenda-
tions of the Consultants from the tariff studies. The forecasts
shall include commercial revenue and expenditure accounts, cash
flow statements, pro forma balance sheets, and debt service state-
ments. The following ratios shall be calculated for each year:
(a) operating ratio;
(b) times interest covered;
(c) times total debt-service covered;
(d) liquidity ratio; and
(e) financial rate of return on average net fixed assets
in use, capital employed, and equity capital.
Provision shall be made for necessary replacements of fixed assets
during the period under review. The Cash Flow Statement shall show
the annual and cumulative surplus or deficit of cash available for
capital purposes and shall take into account borrowings that may be
necessary to finance the foreign exchange costs of development and
debt service thereon, distinguishing between foreign exchange and
local currency.



ANNTEX 3
Page 7
(iii) Engineering Feasibility Study
Parallel to the above studies, the Consultants shall prepare
alternative preliminary engineering designs defining the types
of construction work which are optimal for the port site(s)
consideration. It is the Consultants' responsibility to under-
take all necessary data collection and field investigation to
permit the engineering feasibility studies to be completed. The
Consultants shall explicitly review the ecological impact of
existing and planned port development. Existing data will be
used as available. However, the information required may necessi-
tate such additional studies as a wide interval hydrographic
survey tied to a known survey datum covering tide, current, and
wave characteristics; a wide interval topographic survey tied to
a known survey datum covering the land and seabed in the environs
of the port site; preliminary subsoil surveys to provide informa-
tion for dredging, reclamation and foundations; and other studies
as necessary, including a preliminary survey of the ecological
impact of any proposed projects. In all of these studies the
Consultants will assess the extent of further data collection
required for later detailed design investigations. Specialized
field studies may be performed under approved contracts with
qualified firms. The responsibility to administer these sub-
contracts and for the qtuality of the results rests solely with
the main Consultant.
Drawings shall be prepared and included in the Consultants'
final report giving planned dimensions of all major works,
typical cross-sections, and other detailing necessary to pre-
pare quantity and cost estimates to within plus or minus 20%.
The preliminary designs shall cover, as applicable:            -
(a) the entrance channel layout, depth, breakwaters, shelter
areas, mooring and marine maintenance areas;
(b) berth designs and depth alongside;
(c) shore installations, including transit sheds, warehouses,
open storage areas, parking areas, offices, workshops,
services, access roads, and such specialized facilities
as may be required for industrial development (within
and outside the free zone area) adjacent to the port(s);
(d) the recommended jurisdictional boundaries of port area
and specification of adjacent land use, bearing in mind
future expansion; and
(e) mechanical cargo-handling and floating equipment includ-
ing harbor craft.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
The preparation of these preliminary designs will be based on
internationally accepted design criteria which shall be explicitly
stated and justified in the report.
(iv)  Ports Other Than Aden
The Consultants shall include, in formulating the Master Plan,
studies to determine the economic desirability of developing ports
in PDRY other than Aden for the development and service of a coastal
trade. The Consultants shall undertake preliminary economic and
engineering studies to assess the economic advantages of a coastal
shipping service over the use of highways to serve the northern
parts of PDRY.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Port Facilities
Harbor
1.        The Port of Aden (positioned 12047 min North and 44°58 min East)
has clear approaches from the West, East, and South with no natural hazards
between it and the shipping lanes. The layout of the harbor, berths, quays,
and warehouse facilities is shown in Map IBRD 11525. The primary activity
in the Port of Aden is the bunkering and servicing of ships. As such, the
harbor has been developed around the concept of mooring buoys at which
bunkers are available from terminal barges supplied by submarine pipe connec-
tions. Cargo-handling for sea-going ships is achieved with lighters which
transfer cargoes to one of three quay areas. The harbor has been dredged to
form three major basins, the first of which provides a published depth of
36 ft., the second 30 ft., and the third 18 ft. 1/ Depth alongside quays is
18 ft. for the 820 ft. long home-trade quay, and 9 ft. alongside the remain-
ing quays which total 3,700 ft. in length. The average tidal range is ap-
proximately 3 ft. and maximum current velocities 3 to 4 knots per hour.
Berths
2.        Berths for ocean-going ships total 30, 3 of which are dolphin
berths; an additional berth is available at the home-trade quay, and the
remainder buoy and anchor berths. There are 4 additional berths at Little
Aden, on the south side of the harbor, to receive crude oil from tankers
for the British Petroleum oil refinery also located there. Fuel bunkers are
available at 13 berths connected by submarine pipes. These berths are the
3 dolphin berths and another 10 buoy berths with terminal barges. The
harbor navigational aids and other berthing appurtenances are maintained and
administered by the APA. Maintenance is adequate within the severe cons-
traint on supply of materials and spares resulting from lack of foreign
exchange.
Storage
3.        There are 3 major areas for the storage of cargo on shore (see
Map IBRD 11525); the dhow quay which has 3 transit sheds totalling 14,200
1/   These depths are measured from a datum 0.6 ft. above mean low water
spring tides.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
sq. ft. in area, lighter quays with 10 transit sheds totalling 290,500 sq.
ft. and the home-trade quay with 2 transit sheds totalling 15,000 sq. ft.
In addition, the APA has a further 9 warehouses totalling 37,000 sq. ft.
available for storage together with open storage areas of 1,090,000 sq. ft.
Floating Craft
4.        The APA has 6 pilot launches, only 2 of which are in good condition.
The remainder are from 18 to 28 years old with hulls that cannot be repaired
economically. There are 5 tugs, 3 in the 1000 HP range and 2 of about 500
HP. Of the larger tugs, 2 are in good condition, but the third requires
heavy maintenance to hull and engines. The hulls of the 2 small tugs which
are 17 years old cannot be repaired economically. Of 8 mooring launches,
2 are in reasonable condition and the remainder, ranging in age from 18 to 22
years, have hulls that cannot be repaired economically and are to be scrapped.
The NSC for its cargo-handling and service activities has 72 lighters (aver-
age capacity 140 tons), 8 water boats, and 9 launches available. The float-
ing craft of the NDC which undertake a considerable amounts of its work on-
board ships, consists of one work boat of 36 ft.
Cargo-Handling Equipment
5.        All cargo-handling equipment is owned, operated, and maintained by
the APA who rent the service to the NSC for cargo-handling operations. There
are 3 semi-portal cranes on rails on the home-trade quay, but these are only
in fair condition and are presently inoperative for lack of spares. There
are 21 mobile cranes, average capacity about 7 tons; with 1 capable of a 20-
ton lift. Of the 21 cranes, 4 are to be scrapped, another 10 require major
overhaul, leaving 7 in good condition. In addition, there are 2 floating
cranes of respectively 25-ton and 30-ton capacity; however, the 25 tonner is
over 40 years old, and in only fair condition giving little serviceability.
Workshops
6.        Each of the three units of the YPSC operates a workshop for the
maintenance of floating craft. The majority of the machine shop equipment
is old and unreliable especially in the NDC shop. The workshops of the APA
and the NDC are nominally completely equipped for major repairs to both
machinery and hull structures (steel and wood). The workshop of the NSC is
capable of completing only routine maintenance on small vessels and the NSC
contracts with the NDC for its major repairs. As noted above, the NDC
operates one slipway 300 ft. long and capacity up to 1,500 DWT'. Another
smaller slipway is available for small vessels. The APA operates one large
slipway capable of slipping its largest tug, and three small slipways for
launches.
General
7.        The general level of maintenance of all facilities i.n the Port of
Aden is high when account is taken of the difficulties experienced since



ANNEX 4
Page 3
independence with the availability of foreign exchange for the purchase of
spare parts and materials. Maintenance of APA facilities is programmed and
executed under the direction of a maintenance superintendent attached to the
Chief Engineer's Department.






APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ORGANIZATION CHART - PORT OF ADEN AUTHORITY
ASRTAASIT               ASSIRANT                       ASSISTANT     ARSST ENSA  M        A     SSISTAN
AR                                                                                        CI EA         A                                RE TA ER                   AO                                                          AM 
TETA                            V                                             lSAS                                       ARSISTOST.. ANRRAT                     r     s TEATLXSTENATCE1       LlL   ATrE NASCL         PANRENNC                 SS.NTESASRT.... AR ITAA
EAST ENATNENT   TA PT ESGINERT  OTRELEGEN RARRA  SATES NRRRERRRET  NARESINSENDEST  SATERINTEGRENT  AJRRRTTTRNRESA                            Id .,.F 99:1






ANNEX 6
APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Port of Aden Authority
Salary and Wage Structure
(Monthly)
General      Port            Clerical
ManaRer       Engineer       Class 3       Labourer
1964 to 1968  - YD        275           137             33            26
US$      825           411             99           78
1969 to 1975  - YD        100            75             30            24
US$      300           225             90           72
After Contribution
to National Plan
1974           - YD        66            56             26           22
US$      198           169             78           66
August, 1975






ANNE  7
APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ORGANIZATION CHART - NATIONAL SHIPPING COMPANY
|  GENERAt_ MANAGER 
|  (DIRECTOR GiENERAL)      l
|                         | AINTERNAL AUDIT|
PERSONNEL            PUBLIC RELATIONS            OPERATIONS                FEGTSHIPPINGFIACL
MANAGER              MANAGER                     MANAGER                   MANAGER                  MANAGER                 CONTROLLER
Boarding
Staff Section  Services Section                                   assage          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Superin-
Incharge   ~tendent
|~ -
et      Expot        Impot        B  
I                                                                             Revenue    Budges    Expevns          Disburse.
*                                                             1    1     1     1      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ment
I                                                                             A R-ccvo u n t  Account    cun        Account
Stevedore        Workshop         Wharf
Superintendent   Superintendent   Superintendent                                                                   World Bank-9634






ANNEX 8
APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ORGANIZATION CHART - NATIONAL DOCKYARDS COMPANY
NOVEMBER 1974
(DIRECTORA  MNGER 
.  ~~~~~~~~m
SECRETARY                                                                                                  ACCOUNTANT
ACCOUNTS        COSTING DEPT.        STORES
|ADMINISTRATION & |                               RESEARCH & 
|PERSONNEL DEPT. + |LPLANNING DEPT.2
r  ~        ~~~~~                    J
LCHIEF ENGINEER 
l                l   ~~~~~~SUPERVISORS:l
TRAINEES                                 al HEAD SUPERVISOR
b)) SUPERVISORS
+ Perso,,nel Dept. includes Clerks, Stenographers, Peons, Watchmen, Telephone Operators, Swere,es, Gangers,
Vehicle Drivers, Launch Drivers and Sail Makers.
Dotted Boxes - position not filled                                                                                 World Bank-9633






ANNEX 9
APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Forecast Traffic
1976     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981
NRT Category                                     Forecast Number of Ship Calls -
0  -   6,000                     810    2,170    2,740    2,760    2,790    2,808
6,000  -  10,000                      753    2,024    2,550    2,575    2,600    2,619
10,000  -  19,000                       23        64        81       82        83        85
19,000  -  27,000                        6        17        22        24       27        30
27.000  -  43,000                        5        15        20       21        23        25
43,000  0  54,000                       -         -         -          1         2        3
Total                     1,597    4,290    5,413    5,463    5,525    5,570
-- _---- Forecast NRT ('000) ----------
Total                     9,100   24,546   31,001   31,405   31,896   32,319
- ________--   Oil Bunkers ('000 t) -------------
Total                       972    2,788    3,780    3,862    3,923    3,975
- --------------- Dry Cargo ('000 t) --------------
Import                                 333       343      353       363       363       363
Export                                 117       191      196       199       200       200
Total                       450       534       549      562       563       563
August, 1975



ANNEX 10
APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OP YEMEN
ShippinR Statistics for the Fiscal Years 1963-1973
TrafficLYear                    1965       1966       1967       1968      1969       1970       1971       1972       1973
Ocean-Going Traffic:
No. of Ships                 5,727      6,246      3,100     1,382      1,568      1,607      1,484      1,371     1,320
NRT of Ships-a              28,441    31,425    15,349       6,100      8,089      8,174      6,510      5,694     5,542
Dry Cargo Imported-
by Ships                     670        647       452        432        406        433        269        283       309
Oil Cargo Imported/
by Ships                   8,121     8,072      6,108      5,144      6,608      6,476      3,986     3,719      3,342
Dry Cargo ExportedLa
by Ships                     195        184        177       127         99         93         87         39        65
Oil Cargo Exported-a
by Ships                   4,243     3,985      4,355      4,372      5.584      5,624      3,138     3,100      2,723
TOTAL CARGO HANDLEDLa  13,230    12,889    11,093    10,076    12,699    12,628            7,391     7,142      6,440
Bunkering and Passenger
Traffic:
Fuel Oil BunkersLa           2,969      3,486      1,399       387        576        927        409        353       305
Diesel Oil Bunkersa            352        365        139         34        51         46         37         34         33
Wate,/a                        404        483        212        904       344        609        380        187         12
Passengers Disembarked       5,038     5,045      4,760      9,070      8,176      5,824      4,730     4,116      2,052
Passengers Embarked          7,281     8,710    10,244       6,967      6,626      4,897      3,858     2,156      2,237
Transit Passengers         146,300   128,420    27,889         880      2,519      2,532      1,955     - -          -
/a ('000 t)
August, 1975



ANNEX 11
APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Project Investment Plan PY1976-1978 -
(US$' 000)
/, of
-------FY1976--------    ------ FY1977--------   -------FY1978--------   -------Total---- --   Project
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreje    Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
A. PROJECT ITEMS
(a) Eloatin Equipment
PAA:  Tug 1,500 HP                                         1,000     1,000             1,400     1,400                                        2,400      2,400      14
Tug   750 HP                                          600       600               600       600                                        1,200      1,200       7
4 Mooring launches                                    480       480                                                                       480       480        3
2 Pilot launches                                      264       264                                                                       264       264       1
Hydrographic launch                                   144        144                                                                      144       144       1
NSC:  4 Water barges                                         600        600              600       600                                        1,200      1,200       7
26 Cargo barges                                     1,560     1,560             1,560     1,560                                        3,120      3,120      18
3 Flat-top barges                                     180       1RO               180       180                                           360       360       2
NDC:  Servic  launch                                         120        120                                                                      120       120        1
Subtotal (a)                                        4,948    4,948              4,340     4,340                                        9,288      9,288      54
(b)  CarRo-handling Equipment
PAA:  Mobile crones (10, 20, 30 ton)                 15      285        300                                                              15      285       300        2
10 Fork lifts                                  9      171       180                                                                9      171       180       1
3 Tractors (12 ton)                            3       51         54                                                               3       51        54
12 Trailers (12 too)                           2       34         36                                                               2       34        36
Pallets                                       10      140        150                                                              10      140       150       1
NDC:  To-er cranea (15 ton)                           3       57         60                                                               3       57        60
Mobile crane (20 ton)                           2       46        48                                                               2       46         48
Winches, etc.                                  6      114        120                                                               6      114       120        1
Subtotal (b)                                  50      898       948                                                              50       898       948       5
(c) Workshop Equipment                                  222   1,995       2,217      95      855        950                                 317   2,850      3,167       18
(d) DivinE Equipment                                              168       168                                                                      168        168       1
(e) Navigatios  et.. Equipment                                     72        72                                                                       72         72
(f) Civil Works                                         169      956      1,125                                                             169      956     1,125        6
(g) Technical Assistanc                                  50      220        270      45      165        210      45      165        210     140      550       690        4
Subtotal (A)                                 491   9,257      9,748      140   5,360      5,500       45      165       210    676  14,782    15,458         88
B. CONTINGENCIES
Phystcil (11  on item (b))                               19      106       125                                                              19      106        125       1
Price /1                                                 60   1 147    1_207         15      765        780     _        _                   75   1,912      1,987       11
Subtotal (B)                                  79   1 253    1_332         15      765       780      _                           94   2 018       2,112      12
TOTAL                                        570  10,510   11,080       155   6,125       6,280      45       165       210    770  16,800    17,570        100
1/ Price Contingencies are:  (i) on Equipment, 14% in 1975; 12X in 1976
(ii) on Civil Works, 18% in 1975; 16% in 1976
2  FY is f-.r year ending Decmber 31
SOURCE:  IDA Mission
August, 1975



ANiNEX 12
APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
and Quarter              Association       Arab Fund       YPSC        Total
---------------------(uS$ ToOo) ----------
FY76
September 30, 1975              8                            2           10
December 31, 1975              24                           6            30
March 31, 1976              1,060          3,250           150        4,1460
June 30, 1976               2,100          6,500          600         9,200
FY77
September 30, 1976          2,610          8,300          610        11,520
December 31, 1976           2,930         10,100          620        13,650
March 31, 1977              2,960         11,900           740       15,600
June 30, 1977               3,000         13,600          745        17,345
FY78
September 30, 1977          3,030         13,600          750        17,380
December 31, 1977           3,060         13,600           760       17,420
March 31, 1978              3,100         13,60(          770        17,470
June 30, 1978               3,130         13,600          780        17,510
FY79
September 30, 1978          3,170         13,600          790        17,560
December 31, 1978           3,200         13,600          800        17,600
Source: IDA Mission
August, 1975



ANNEX 13
APPRAISAL OF
ADRE PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DPE7FCRATIC REPOBLIC OF YEHEN
Yemen P-ore  ad Shipping Corporation
Balanef Sheet as at Marh 31. 1974 /a.
( YD)
------------- _----- ASSETS---------                                                                                         LSILITIES-
National          National          Port of                                                    National          National
Shipping          Dockyard           Adon                                                      Shipping          Dockyard           Port of AMe
C-pay             CoDpev             Authority                                                 CompanY           ConPany            Atry
Cash and Bank Ba-lnnes             671,777             89,683            970,862                Accounts Paycble                  335,454             87,339             120,988
Inventory                           20,889            86,966             112,511                Anorued In.o-n TSem               111,042             4,344                -
Wo-k in Progresa                      -                29,058               -                   Other                                                   -                 81,822
Accounts Receivable                326,050            246,125             36,520
TOTAL CURRENIT
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS        1,015,716           451,832           1,119,893                       LIABILITIES                446,496            91,683             202,870
Advance to Eiployeee                  -                  -                27,204                Loans                                -               210.189                -
Trn Bank Deposits                     -                  -               220,000                End of Service   n..fits          428,405            106,335            488 256
Othor Loans                           -               18,326             165,000                Reae.es:
Innrance Fond                     -                  -               346,921
Pennion Fond Depoeit               216,877               -               486,488
Dnpreciation and Renewal           -                                  577,013
Anecto at bet                      480,624           373,408           7,020,289                  Capitol Works                    22,300               -               403,523
Lse. DePre-iation               (119,311)         (111,512)
Capitol Account                   699,705            323,847          7,020,291
Nrt Fited Assets              361,313           261,896           7,020,289
TOTAL ASSETS                1,596,906           732,054           9,038,874                     TOTAL L7A81LITIES          1,596,906            732,054          9,038,874
/L   National Shipping Company 'e at March 1973 data since March 1974 not avilable.
Source ' Yien Ports nd Shipping Corporation Statements
Agu.st, 1975



ANNEX 14
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Assumptions Made in Financial Projections
and Current Financial Position
A.   General
1.        Forecast traffic in Annex 9 is the prime determinant of Revenues.
2.        The YPSC units will be exempted from the PDRY compensation and
distribution of profits laws but income tax has been deducted.
3.        Depreciation rates, which differ somewhat from income tax rates,
were calculated on useful life, ultimately by the mission, as follows:
Light Crane, Forklifts, etc.                              10 years
Heavy Trucks, Launches, Workshop Equipment,
Diving Equipment                                        15 years
Tugs, Dolphin Tender                                      20 years
Dredging                                                  50 years
4.        Technical assistance was amortized over 10 years.
5.        Cash flows of YPSC are a summation for the NSC, NDC and PAA
6.        Financial year ends March 31, 1975, and December 31, 1975, thereafter,
however, for comparison purposes, all forecasts are for 12 month fiscal years
ending March 31.
B.   Port of Aden Authority (PAA)
Assumptions
Income Taxes
1.        Historically, PAA has paid income tax at a rate of 37-1/2% of a
YD .006 per NRT, with no deduction being made for depreciation in PAA accounts.
Available profits after taxes were allocated to various reserve accounts. In
the projections, provision is made for depreciation on existing assets and new
assets. Normal income taxes would be payable but losses were incurred at the
existing tariff. The PAA losses were not consolidated with other YPSC units
for calculating income taxes of YPSC on an overall basis. This is considered
to be the most likely treatment following asset revaluation and changeover to
commercial accounting.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Depreciation on Existing Assets
2.        An annual depreciation charge of YD 124,000 on a historic cost basis
as calculated using a rate of 2% on longlife assets, 3% on medium life assets
and 5% on the remainder. The historic cost depreciation was adjusted for
inflation over the past 20 years in the US - a factor of 2.4 (UK Central
Statistical Office Data, published in the November 1974 issue of Accountants
Journal of Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales) giving an
annual depreciation charge of YD 296,000 for existing PAA fixed assets, which
was used in the financial forecast.
Revenues
3.        Revenues were projected on the following basis:
(a) Wharves: Charge on cargo weight, volume or quantity basis,
as specified under Aden Port Trust Ordinance By-Laws 1958.
(b) Bulk Oil Installation: Rental from oil company lessees at
YD .010 per ton of oil bunkered.
(c) Little Aden refinery: At the specified rental rate, with
an increase in throughput from the present 50% to 75%
capacity.
(d) General Miscellaneous Revenues: Rentals of cranes, houses,
etc., has been increased slightly to reflect increase in
port cargo.
(e) Pilotage: Revenues forecast on basis of 1962 Port Laws and
Rate Schedule, payable primarily on NRT basis.
(f) Port Department: Charges for port dues, light dues berthing
fees on NRT basis and GRT on time for mooring and towing.
Expenses
4.   (a)  Salary and wages were forecast at about the same total cost
but higher staffing levels than existed prior to Suez Canal
closure, reflecting the charged wage and salary levels and
limited PAA experience in handling the pre-Suez closure
traffic levels.
(b) Other expenses were increased to reflect the increase in the
cost of many of these items in the international market.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
Current Financial Position
5.        The operating results for FY65 through FY74 and the budget estimates
for 1975 are given in Annex 17. The expenses are shown in total only since
the next level of disaggregation is for a large number of departments, not
necessarily consistent from year to year. The absence of a depreciation
charge distorts the results but up to 1967 a strong position is evident.
Thereafter a commendable reduction in expenses was achieved but, with depre-
ciation based on historic cost, a loss would have been incurred in the 1972-
74 period. The decline in revenue from 1971 to the present reflects the
worsening economic circumstance of PDRY as well as the loss of transit
traffic following the loss of free port status for Aden. In 1975 the budget
estimates of expenses show a considerable increase over 1974 reflecting in-
creased fuel costs plus the impact of expensing some capital items which under
more commercial accounting systems would be capitalized.
6.        The forecast operating results for FY76-81 are given in Annex 18.
To arrive at a depreciation charge broad assumptions were made on asset
value and life, and adjustment of historic cost-based depreciation to current
values. Because of this depreciation charge on existing assets, the low
tariff levels (see para 5.04), and the interest and depreciation for new
assets a continuous operating loss is forecast, even though debt obligations
can be met and a reasonable cash positon maintained. Recommendations for
agreement on tariff changes are discussed in para 5.04.
C.   National Shipping Company
1.        Agency Fees:  Rates increased by 70% in projection period in ac-
cordance with revised NSC rate schedule commencing in 1975.
2.        Cargo Handling and Freight Agency:  Present unit revenues and costs
used for projections.
3.        Water and Coal:  Maintained at present levels because traffic in-
crease offset by de-salinization of sea water by ships.
4.        General Management:  This charge for rental and management of Aden
Coasters has been left at present levels because of lack of information about
the future operation of Aden Coasters.
5.        Expenses:  Expenses were forecast on the basis of unit costs calcu-
lated oh historic data. Depreciation on existing fixed assets was calculated
on the basis consistent with historic financial statements.
6.        Cash Position:  The 1973 cash position and 1974 generation are
assumed to be utilized for acquiring the ships for Aden Coaster, a matter
that had not been settled at the time of the appraisal.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
Current Financial Position
7.        The actual operating results for FY71-74 and forecasts to FY81 are
presented in Annex 19. Annual profits are expected to reach YD 600,000 by
1980, by far the most profitable unit. The financial strength of this unit
is evident but this comes primarily from the cargo-handling revenues which
are expected to continue to far exceed costs. Revenue from Aden Coasters
(shown as General Management from 1974 on) and Al Mukalla Port operations
are assumed constant as are existing tariff levels except for agency fees
which have been increased 70% in 1975 by NSC after investigations of fee
levels for similar service in competing regional ports.
D.   National Dockyard Company
1.        Revenues:  Modest revenue growth is forecast for repair services for
the domestic market, NSC, other local craft. Total revenue is expected to
double by 1981, most of this coming from foreign ships.
2.        Expenses:  Productivity of labor is expected to increase sufficient-
ly to offset capital and interest charges related to new equipment, enabling
net profit to increase proportionately to increases in revenue. Depreciation
on existing fixed assets was calculated on a basis consistent with historic
financial statements.
Current Financial Position
3.        In spite of obsolete equipment and the scarcity of skilled labor,
the demand for service has enabled NDC to make a profit each year. Actual
and forecast operating results are presented in Annex 20. The forecasts in-
dicate a doubling of present revenue by 1981 with most growth in revenue from
foreign ships and profit reaching YD 140,000. The growth for NDC services is
about 15% per annum which is reasonable whet. compared with traffic forecasts
for the port.  On the expense side the machires to be proctired under the
proposed project are expected to double the machineshop productivity to meet
the demand. Further expansion would be limited by the availability of skilled
labor; however, the training program to be defined in the Port Development
Study is expected to furnish graduates by this time.



ANNex 15
APPRAISAL OF
ALDEN PORT REhA8ILITATION PROJECT
PEOILE'S DEMOCRATIC PEPUO11C OF YEdEN
Yenon Ports sd Shipping Conpnr-tlen
Con olidated Incowc State  te
('000 YO)
-----------          Actual--------------------           Budget          -------------------------------- Fo-.t          ---------- _
1971          1972           1973           1974           1975           1976           1977          1978           1979           1980           19d1
Revenues
Port of Ade- Authority                    1,167           908            809            786            782            935          1,565          1,818         1,837          1,855          1,168
National Shipping Company                1,666          1,564          1,658          1,816          1,757          1,899          2,343         2,691          2,755          2,786         2,796
Notional lotkyord Coapony                  459            504            495            494            492            580           650            770            820            900            980
TOTAL                                3,292          2,976         2,962          3,096          3,031          3,414          4,758          5,279          5,412         5,541          5,644
UnP.....
Port of Ado. Ath-ity                       850            873            837            771            986          1,075          1,175          1,280         1,310          1,340          1,360
NatI-nil Shipping CoWpany                1,453-         1,376          1,108          1,182          1,223         1,237          1,379          1,396          1.418          !.423          l.433
Tational LDkyard Co.poey                   336            362            351            384            397            416           445            465            490            525            545
Dprecistloir and A-ortiastio:
Port nt Aden A.L.hhrity              -              -              -              -                             2 396         386            439            439            439           439
Notio..a1 Shipping Cowpony            50             49            46             30             39             90            160            187            187            187           187
Notional   Dorky-rd   Company         29             27            29             29             27             48             75             84             84             84 -4
Total Onpractotion
ned Anortiastiho                   79             76             75             59             66            434            621            710           710            710            710
TOTAL EXPENSES                     2,718         2,687          2,451          2,396          2,672          3,162          3,620          3,851         3,928          3,990          4,048
Operating Incawe                             574            289            511            700            359            252         1,138          1,428          1,484          1,543          1,596
Add Intere-t Incoa-                         80             62             78             69             45            -             -              -                                            -
Net lannete (loss) before
Interest end Ioroer T-nee         654            341            589            769            404            252          1,138         1,428          1,484          1,543          1,596
Interest                                      12             12             12             12            -              120           427            581            562            543            532
Incowe IcOns                                 115            112            226           269          - 226            227            389            362            396            426           451
Net Profit                           527            227           351            488            178            (95)           322            485            526            574           613
Cash Plot                                    606            303            426            547            244            339           943          1,195          1,236          1,284          1,323
opnr-til4                                  .83            .90            .83            .77           .88            .93            .76            .73            .73            .72             72
TiaCs Interest Con--nd                      -              -              -             -              -            2.1            2.7           215             2,6            2.8           3.0
P oOtt of Adno Authority actual and 1975 budget has et baee  djosned t inlood da pre-iAtio.
So-rne   Yavs  Ports   d Shipping Cerperstiec crd IDA Mission
August, 1975



ANNEX 16
APPRAISAL OF
ADr,N POfRT RE+ABI1IITATION PROJECT
PEOPIE'S DEMOCILATIC REPUBlIC OF YEMEN
Yemen Ports and Shipping Corporation
Consolidated Forecast Cash Flow Statement
('00 YD)
1976     1977      1978      1979     1980      1981
Application of Funds
/a
Fixed Asset Additions              1,326    3,485        939      600       600      600
Stores and Spares                    132       273       266        7                  -
Technical Assistance                  80        80        40       38        _         -
Sub-total                     1,538    3,841    1,245        645       600      600
Debt Service:
Interest                           ]20       427      581       562       543      532
Principal                          _      _  -        180       198       220      230
Sub-total                       120       427      761       760       763      762
Income Taxes                       227       389      362       396       426      451
Total Application
of Funds                     1,885    4,657    2,368    1,801    1,789    i
Source of Funds
Net Income before Interest
and Income Taxes                   252    1,138    1,428    1,484    1,543    1,596
Depreciation and                                                               -
Amortization                        434      621       710      710       710       710
Sub-total                       686    1,759    2,138    2,1914    2,253    2,306
IDA and other Loans                1,538    3,841       645        45        -        -
Total Source                   2,224   5,600    2,783    2,239    2,253    2,306
Excess for Year                      339       943       415      438       464       493
Cash at Beginnirng of Year           575       914    1,857    2,272    2,710    3,7 
Cash at End of Year                  914    1,857    2,272    2,71(    3,174    3,667
Debt Service Coverage                  5.7       4.1       2.8      2.9       3.0       3-0
/a Annual expenditures of YD 600.000 hps been assuned after 1977.
Source: YPSC and TDA Mission
August, 1975



ANNEX 17
APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROIOCT
PEOPLE'S DEM10CRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Port of Aden Authority - Past Fincial Results
(YD)
Budget
1965          1966           1967          1968           1969          1970           1971          1972           1973          1974           1975
Reveues:
Wharves                          519,717       542,000        518,553        362,783       451,594       491,111        675,212       423,366        380,244        374,416       372,058
Bulk Oil Iostallstise            409,032       347,000        397,829       113,475         66,248        71,150         77,216        73,258         71,023         75,069        69,472
Little Aden Refinery             224,829       151,000        1SI,275       123,493        121,331        160,417       152,455        152,718       111,898        105,885       114,020
Gener-l MLa..llaneuus            162,661       139,000         61,200        82,013         65,503         71,868        67,245         61,098        54,100         51,915        51,520
Pilutaga                         180,75B       154,000        180,590        51,222         39,342,       48,615         47,997        39,331         40,219         35,087        37,000
Port DBpart-nt                   478,247       406,000        457,390       140,290        113,281        156,924       147,122       158,391        151,597        143,764       137,676
Total Reve-nes             1 975.247     1,738,000      1,766,921       873,276        857,303       999,626      1,167,250       908,165        808,865       786,242        781,746
Operating Enpesses               1,060,974     1,316,000      1,238,848      1,331,330       723,856        803,677       849,884       673,192        836,729        771,717       985,581
Operating Profit (loss)            914,270       422,000        528,073       (458,054)      133,433        196,308       317,363         34,910       (27,648)        14,525      (203,835)
Add Interest Itoe                 55,245         n.s           83,582         89,179        67,426        41,300         79,521         61,633        77,602         69,372        45,000
Profit (Lor8) befote
innine Tas                 669,515  -   422,000         611,655      (368,875)       200,859       237,608        396,884        96,543         49,954        83,897       (158,835)
1-bsem Taaeta1                      61,000        51,000         55,600        34,500        '13,700        18,200         16,390        14,600         14,813         13,500        14,000
Net Profit after T7Lb        908,515       371,000        556,055      (403,375)       187,159       219,408        378,494        81,943         35,141        70,397       (172,835)
Salaries ad Wages                  550,531       676,000        727,381         ..a.          n-a.           n.. as                        .           471,528       503,004        523,579
E5 RetiBated for 1966, 1968, 1969, 1970, 1971, and 1972.
Srate.tete have sot bean adjusted to innlede depreuition.  Available profits  fter tax.e  se *llorated to v-rIous re-erved atuounet, in-luding dapreriatun and renn-a.
Sores:  Pert of Aden Aothority Finasuinl Stateesit-
Angust, 1975



ANNEX 18
APPRAISAL OF
ADEN PORT REHARILITATION PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OP YEMEN
Port of Aden Authority - Pinaocial Forecast
(YD)
1976            1977            1978             1979            1980            1981
Revenues
Wharves                                        450,000         534,000         549,000          562,000         563,000          563,000
Bulk Oil Installation                           97,000         279,000         378,000          386,000         392,000          397,000
Little Aden Refinery                           125,000         150,000         150,000          150,000         150,000         150,000
General Miscellaneous                           60,000          70,000          80,000           80,000          80,000           80,000
Pilotage                                        58,000         152,000         189,000          188,000         192,000          193,000
Port Department                               145,000          380,000         472,000          471,000         478,000         485,000
Total Revenues                            935,000        1,565,000       1,818,000        1,837,000       1,855,000       1,868,000
Expenses
Salaries and Wages                             575,000         625,000         680,000          690,000         700,000          700,000
Other                                          500,000         550,000         600,000          620,000         640,000          660,000
Depreciation and Aworti.ation:
old assets                    296,000          296,000         296,000          296,000         296,000          296,000
-new assets                       -             90,000         143,000          143,000         143,000          143.000
Sub-total (Depr. & Aoor.)                  296,000         386,000          439,000         439,000         439,000          439,000
Total Operating Expense                  1,371,000       1,561,000       1,719,000        1,749,000       1,779,000        1,799,000
Operating Profit (Loss)                         (436,000)          4,000           99,000          88,000          76,000           69,000
Intereat Expense                                  40,000         172,000           ''000          222,000         214,000          210,000
Income Taxes                                        -               -                -               -               -                -
Met Income (Loss)                               (476,000)       (168,000)        (130,000)       (134,000)       (138,000)        (141,000)
Cash Flow (Xegatis.                             (180,000)        218,000          309,000         305,000         301,000          298,000
Ratios
Operating                                        neg.            .99              .95             .95             .96              .96
Tins Interest Covered                            -              0                 .4              .4              .4                3
Debt Service Coverage                            -              2.3             1.8              1.8             1.7              1.7
Source: Port of Aden Authority end IDI Mission
August, 1975



AEX 19
APPRAISAL OF
ADEN POt R00IRI581LTATCK7 PROJECT
POOPLE'S DIMOCIATIC REPIUBLIC OF17YYII
National SkippIng Company
ylnnnolal penfooaafna -ad Forecast
------------------ Actt. l---------------------       Budg.t         ----------------------  ------- Foe   t----------------- ------- ---- --
1971          1972         1973          1974          1975          1976          1977          1978          1979         1909          1901
k v ues
Ship Agency                            94,489       105,851       122,279       120,982       135,000       243.000       600,0O0       700,000      720.080       750.000       760,000
C-rgo-HOadlino                      1,290,350     1,127,659     1,154,565     1,400,527     1,329,800     1,350,000     1,602,000     1.647,000     1,686,000    1,687,000     1,687.000
Shipping and Yreight Agnncy           105,604       102,634       108,452       122,456       128,500       132,008       157,0Q0      160,000       165,000       165,000       165 000
Water ad Col                          121,677      114,156        78,927        58,047        43,700        10,800        60,080        60,000        60,080       60,080        60.000
Gene-al .. noant                       24,247        37,437        43,112        20,549        17,300        20,000        20,000        20,000        20,000       20,000        20,000
Coastal Ships                          29.771        17,574         2,400          -                                         -            -             -             -             -
Sob-total Adn                   1,666,138     1,515,311     1,509,735     1,722,561     1,652,5bO     1,795,000     2,439,000    2,587,000     2,651,000     2,682,000     2,692,000
Al Mek1lla Brnoch                        -           49,190       148,290        94,312      I14,220        104,000       104,080       104,000       184,000      104,000       104,000
TOTAL REVENUE                   1,666,158     1,564,101     1,658,025     1,816,873     1,757,100     1,899,000     2,543,000     2,691,000    2,755,000     2,786,000     2,796,000
Sossonna
lalories and WaEas                    094,895       822,028       739,249       771,042       736,200       765,000       908,000       933,000      955,000       960,000       970,000
Wotr  -nd Cool                         22,989        25,747        12,773         9,194         8,220        10,000        11,008        11,000       11,070        11,000        11.000
Crane Rentals                          46,251        35,390        25,984        28,751        22,500        25,000        28,908        30,00         30,0Q0       30,D00        30,000
Dock ons                                 -             _           10,049        11,732         8,000       l1,qo0        10,000         10,000       10.000        10,000        10,000
Equipment 1ainsoonne                  131,577       163,303       102,437       100,740       159,2bO       120,000       110,900        90,000        90,000       90,0Q0        90,000
Mi.n.ll.osoos                         357,4219      321,045       209,574       189,461       206,340       225,000       210,900       240,000      240,0O0       240,Q0O       240,000
Depr.ciotion and Asortinatio-          50,121        40,720        45,994        30,359        39,150       90,000        160,000       107,000      187.000       187,00Q      17,000
Sob-total Ado-                  1,503,262     1,416,233    1,146,060      1,150,279     1,179,650     1,245,000     1,457,000    1,501,000     1,523,000     1,528,000     1,538,000
Al Moka1ia Btnah                         -            8,992        08,241        62,109        82,590        82,008        82,000       82,000        82,000        82,000        82,000
TOTAL EXPE0SES                  1,503,262     1,425.225     1,234,301     1.212,388     1,262,280     1,327,000     1.539,000     1,583,000    1,605,009    1.610,000      1,620,080
Operating Ioco-o                        163,000       140,000       423,000       604,485       494,820       572,008     1,004,000    1,108,000     1,150,000     1,176,008     1,17.,000
Interest ECpen.e                           -             _             _             -             -           10,000      160,000       213,000       206,0D0,      199,008       195,000
Ino   T-a                                65,200        56,000       170,000       227,000       185,008      195,000       376,000       331,000       354,000       366,000       367,000
Net Incone                         06,800        84,000       253,000       377,485       309,820       327,000      "68,000        564,000      508,000       611,000       614,000
opsratino                                .90           .91           .74           .67          .72           .70           .61           .60           .58           .58           .58
li.os Interset Co .rsd                   -             -             -             -             -           11.4           6.4          5.2           5.6           5.9           6.1
Dsbt Seenin- Con-r-ge                                  -             -             .             -           13.2           7.4          4.7           4.8           4.9           4.9
Sur-:n NItlonOl Shltpping Conpasy & IDA Mission
August, 1975



ANNHE 20
APPRAISAL OF
ABEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJRCT
POPFL8'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEHEB
74 tional ockyard COWSnY
Pinaneal Perforence  nd Fore-ast
(YD)
197;------    1 9; A t..l--------------------        BI_    ; ;    -------------------- F-For...t --           ---------------
1971         1972          1973         1974          1973         1976          1977         1978          1979          1980         1981
Revenue frnp Services
Fortign Ship.                        225,565       242,307       251,131      235,798       215,000      280,000       332,000      437,000       482,000      562,000       637,000
Nation.l Shipping Con,paey            93,430       112,691       105,652       97,616      10,088       100,000       100,000      10,000       100,000       100,000      100,000
Local Ships egd Crafts                88,578        35,740        57,625       83,726       102,000      102,000       110,000      125,000       130,000      130,000       135,000
Other Repair Work                     51,120       106,716       65,897        68,745        70,000       90,000       100,000      100,000       100,000      100 O00       100,000
Other Income                             253         6,179        14,616        8,476         5,000        8,000         8,000        8.000         8,000        0,000         8,000
TOTAL R0VENUE                    451,946       503,633      494,921       494,361       492.000      580,000       650,000      770,000       020,000      900,000       980,000
R.. Materi.1                           na           71,698       91,662        81,504       111,700      116,000       120.000      130,000       145.000      155,000      160,000
Wages and Salaries                     n.e         136,238       119,540      121,812       139,263      140,000       140,000      140,000       140,000      160,000       170,000
Otbhe Impen.ee                         n a          26,409        14,951       13,100          -          10,000        10,000       10,000        10,000       io,000        10,000
Ove-h.nde                            112,002       127,332      125,100       167,767a.    146,374       150,000       175,000      185,000       195,000      200,000       205,000
Dep-eciatiin -nd Anoctieativn        27,980         27,504       28,592        28,877        27,204       48,000        75,000       84,000        84,000       84,000        84,000
TOTAL RXp8NMSS                    141,062      389,101       379,845      413,060       424,541      464,000       520,000      549,000       574,000      609,000       629,000
op--ctis Incoo,e                        93,185       114,452      115,076        01,301       67,459       116,000      130,000       221,000      246,000       291,000       351,000
In- treac Onpean.                       12.043        12,023       12,023        12,023       - -           30,000       95.000       139,000      134,000       130,000      127,000
Ic--- Tan                              30,464        40,900       41,200        27,700       26,980        32,000       13,000        31,000       42,000        60,000       04.000
Net foOfit *ftor Tox               50,678       61,529        61,853       41,578        40,479       54,000        22,000       51,000        70,000       101,000      140,000
RaLios
Op-rnticg                               .80           .77          .77           .84           a6           .80           .S0          .72           .70          .67           .64
Ti-es Incene    -- covered             7.8          10.2          10,4          7.6            -           3.9           1,4          1.6           1,8          2.2           2.S
Debt Service Cnverog                    -- -                       -             -                         5.5          3.3           1.7          1,8           2.1          2.4
/-  Includes vrite-off  f 40,000 of nbni.tee invbnio- y
Source sNtional Lockyand Company and 10A isMion
Au...t, 1975






TUIRKEY                                                         46                                 48°                              50e                                52
XSYRIAi        iW, 
i A. IRAQ 'l*   iRAN              1  /        -204         }PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                                                           200-
47N                       ,                  + Zz + 1TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
ARE\   SAUDI ARABiA                                                                                                                                  N
A R-E                          .AE   ,      -                                                                                                                          *
0    20   40    60   80   Too
O )Atbian                                    Mis Ia'\
SUDAN . XARN/';%%S9 $    SJe                             0 20 40 60 80100
,ETHIOPI                     AMEA OF MAP                               KILOMETERS                                                              ,
/                                          ..                                  OM
kvortdSanfaIdarf//drftar                                                                   9                            _       ~              .'/  Sonow           ShAan      \
+   ,                i)    /.   , /                                      /  .'                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H.brut/9
'Y' f                                          P  ' / 'Thamud                                  /
7ra    a   >  /  oo  .  OB,r Tamrs    /               .
Y E M EN                                                                                 --                                       6                    /
I                HutZn  ak /                                    ~'AI-Ghus  X 
160~~~~~~~ ~A RAB                                                                OAI-Abr                                                                                   I-G16d0
R   E   P   U    B           L  I. c            *                                                                                                       Nish Sal 
/SAN'A                                     /                                                                               Qishnr,
t3Shobwah                                                                  Ll\. ac
Saylinu.
rri                                                ,                  /                                 -' 9oWor A_  h.Go            -     -                     Project Roads for Construction
Al                                     ft                                          <thun   1 Aaq 4  . '-    Qus&layir  Project Roads for Detailed Design
) BeAan              A sa a aq                                     I .   Shih,                                Asphalt Roads Under Construction
([N + ....As  o^c                                               Kholf                                          Primary Roads
; * J .aAzzon    Pr oom      Al Mukal lo                                   Main Trocks
14'            (                                              Aukayras  S.Nagubah;                         _                                                       ffi      Agricultural Areas
140         To z                                                iBan Baq   mA yani S  /   Bir Ali                                                        I International Airport
0            N~~~o BlA a l laq   Lo+o ''                                                                                      .      Main  Airstrips
lThvraim  
.P>|     t r (Al OAlQroh                    i                                                                               Harbor_
~usayrnir'  Al -Hluss      
KIer       Nob                                                                    A   V9   E   N                                        Minor Port
m far                            --'2 5J ........ Governorate Boundaries and Numbers
-.     EararFs
Thr    0    L            l o                           G                                                                          --.-International Boundaries 
\    #.Albaha Al Fajrah..-      DE
>  t   ~~ 44°    -        4                 46°                                 48°                                 50°
f         51-----        -                     I                                   I                                    I__






I BRD-i11525
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMENS                                                                                                                                                                                                     ; 
ADEN PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                         LVISO
PIPLIESA~ ADEN~IO
ro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARMW S7  
OIL TERMINAL BUOYS                                                  A  ~~~~~~~~~ ~o                                         A                                                                      /                   PTo
MOORING OULTI,SR  0A                                                                                           sO~~~~~~~~~9'dg
0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14~~0A    31
OILEETT                                                 3bA// 55                                        dASELSO
1- A- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4   ' 
*   NAU OATIOEISo SAUNO                                                                                                                            tr~~~A~                           S                                           SESSALEITO PIES
o   OIL STOSAOE                                                                                                                                4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
5%~~~~~~~~~~~~'
r EUILT UP AREAS~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
A  *AA                                                                     ES               *I                                                                                  <AUNT.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  7;~~~



