CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 584 YDR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Aden Port Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 8, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 584 YDP.
Development Credit
Agreement
(Aden Port Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 8, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       September  8, 1975, between     the IEOlPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development (hereinafter called the Arab Fund) a loan (hereinafter called
the Arab Fund Loan) in an amount of not less than three million nine hundred
thousand Kuwaiti Dinars (KD3,900,000) to assist in financing part of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereina.fter called the Arab
Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Arab
Fund;
(C)   The Project will be carried out by the Yemen Ports and Shipping
Corporation (hereinafter called YPSC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to YPSC the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(D)  The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and YPSC;
NOW THEREPORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if' they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "YPSC" means the Yemen Ports and Shipping Corporation established
under the Borrower's Law No. 19 of 1973.
(b)   "YPSC Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 19 of 1973.
(c)   "PAA" means the Port of Aden Authority referred to in the first
paragraph of Article 7 of the YPSC Law.
(d)   "NSC" means the National Shipping Company referred to in the second
paragraph of Article 7 of the YPSC Law.
(e)   "NDC" means the National Dockyards Company referred to in the
third paragraph of Article 7 of the YPSC Law.
(f)   "YPSC Units" means PAA, NSC and NDC.
(g)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and YPSC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement.
(h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and YPSC pursuant to Section 3,01 (b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(i)   "Port Development Study" means the "Study of the Development of
the Port of Aden" carried out in accordance with the agreement between the
Borrower and consultants led by Coode & Partners, Consulting Engineers of
London, dated December 22, 1974.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million two hundred thousand
dollars ($3,200,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and seivices required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1979 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2,05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I'f ) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June I and December I commencing
December 1, 1985 and ending June 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
';) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-t!2' ) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08, The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09, The Minister of Planning or such other persons as he shall
authorize in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE Ill
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations u nder the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause


﻿6
YPSC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable YPSC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to YPSC under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and YPSC
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall
include the following:
(i)         the principal amount of the loan repayable by YPSC shall
be the equivalent in Yemeni Dinars (determined as of the
date, or the respective dates, of repayment) of the value
of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit
Account expressed in terms of United States dollars at
the time of withdrawal;
(ii)       repayment by YPSC to the Borrower of the principal
amount of the loan and the interest thereon shall be in
twenty-seven C(ual semi-annual installme nts over fifteen
years (including two years of grace); and
(iii)      interest referred to in Sub-section (b)(ii) of this Section
shall be charged at the rate of ten per cent (1 01X) per
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction on the obligations of the
Borrower under Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall take, or
cause its Ministry of Communications to take all measures necessary to: (i) enable
YPSC to establish the positions and appoint the staff referred to in Section 6.01(d)
of this Agreement; and (ii) ensure the effective retention of the arrangements for
provision of legal advice to YPSC referred to in Section 2.05 of the Project
Agreement.
0


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken from time to
time all necessary measures as shall be required to enable YPSC to set and adjust
tariffs pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, when required, take all action necessary to enable YPSC to retain
out of its net disposable revenues such amounts as shall, in the aggregate, be not
less than 1.5 times the maximum  debt service requirements for any succeeding
fiscal year.
(b)   For the purpose of sub-section (a) of this Section, the provisions of
Section 4.06(b)(iii), (iv) and (v) of the Project Agreement shall apply.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   YPSC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement;
(b)   Law No. 19 of 1973 of the Borrower shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed, or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of' YPSC to carry out the obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement or otherwise impair the successful carrying out of the Project;
and
(c)   (i)        Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)  The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
the Arab Fund Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
of the Arab Fund Loan Agreement, or
(B)   the Arab Fund Loan shall have become dUe and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.


﻿8
(ii)        Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under such Agreement,
and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower or YPSC from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement and of YPSC under the Project
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Por the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) (i)B of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of YPSC
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and YPSC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   the Borrower shall have entered into a loan agreement with the Arab
Fund for the provision to the Borrower of an amount of not less than three million
nine hundred thousand Kuwaiti Dinars (KD3,900,000) to assist in financing part
of the Project; and


﻿9
(d)   YPSC shall have established positions for and appointed to its staff
a Managing Director and a Planner.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, YPSC, and is legally binding upon YPSC
in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and YPSC, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and YPSC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date December 8, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Sections 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower Under Article IV of this
Agreement and the provisions of Article V of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance,
Crater, Aden
People's Democratic Republc of Yemen
Cable address:
MINFIN
Aden


﻿10
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting through  their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the clay and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YHMEN
By /s / Abdallah S. Ashtal
Au thorized Repiresentatie
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /S / Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿*                                11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Floating Equipment            1,200,000           100%
(4 water barges)
(2)   Cargo handling                 898,000            100% of foreign
equipment                                         expenditures
(3)   Diving team                     168,000           100%
equipment
(4)   Navigation,                      72,000           100%
mooring and
communications
equipment
(5)  Technical assist-               550,000            100% of foreign
ance                                              expenditures
(6)   Unallocated                    312,000
TOTAL        3,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term. "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from  the territory of any country other than the
Borrower.


﻿12
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (5) on account of
expenditures incurred after August 1, 1975, in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $25,000.
5.    Notwithstanding   the allocation  of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
(A)   Purchase of floating equipment consisting of:
(i)        two tugs, four mooring launches, two pilot launches arnd
one hydrographic launch, for PAA;
(ii)       four water barges, twenty-six cargo barges and three flat-
top barges, for NSC; and
(iii)      one service launch, for NDC.
(B)   Purchase of cargo-handling equipment consisting of:
(i)        three mobile cranes, ten fork-lifts, three tractors, twelve
trailers, and five hundred pallets, for PAA; and
(ii)       a tower crane, a mobile crane, and four capstan winches,
for NDC.
(C)   Purchase of workshop equipment, spare parts and stocks for PAA, NSC
and NDC.
(D)   Purchase of diving equipment for PAA and NDC.
(E)   Purchase of navigation, mooring and communications equipment for
PAA.
(F)   Provision of technical assistance to YPSC, PAA and NDC.
(G)   Provision of dredging works in the Main Harbor.
The details of technical assistance under Part (F) hereof, are described in
the Annex to this Schedule, as such Annex may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿14
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Technical Assistance
Agency            Type of Expert                 Number      Total Man-Months
YPSC                Training Advisor                1                12
Procurement Expert              1                 6
Asset Revaluation Expert      2                 12
PAA                Cost Accountant                  1                36
NDC                Cost Accountant                  1                36
Naval Architect                1                 36
7               138


