CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 584 YDR
Project Agreement
(Aden Port Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE YEMEN PORTS AND SHIPPING CORPORATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 8, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
YEMEN PORTS AND SHIPPING CORPORATION (hereinafter called YPSC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million two hundred thousand
dollars ($3,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that YPSC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth' and
WHEREAS YPSC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth:
NOW TIIEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01, Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE 11
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. YPSC shall carry out, and cause to be carried out, the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿4
Section 2.02. In order to assist YPSC in carrying out the Project, YPSC
shall employ, not later than December 31, 1975, or such other date as may be
agreed by the Association, technical experts and advisors referred to in Part (F)
of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works or services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. YPSC shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Association
to make available to PAA, NSC and NDC appropriate parts of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to YPSC.
Section 2.05. YPSC shall retain appropriate arrangements for ready access
to adequate legal advice.
Section 2.06. YPSC shall not later than December 31, 1975, or such other
date as may be agreed by the Association, discuss and agree with the Association
to: (i) make appropriate arrangements for the consolidation of all cargo handling
facilities and operations in PAA or any other such entity as may be agreed, and
(ii) establish a system for payment on a common basis of both shore gangs and
ship gangs which handle cargo.
Section 2.07. YPSC shall review with the Association the results of the Port
Development Study and shall, not later than June 30, 1976 or such other date
as may be agreed by the Association, establish, and thereafter implement, in
consultation and agreement with the Association, procedures which shall ensure
the rationalization of workshop facilities and the definition of responsibilities and
duties relating to such facilities.
Section 2.08. (a) YPSC undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by YPSC
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, YPSC shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿5
Section 2.09. (a) YPSC shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   YPSC shall, and shall cause PAA, NSC and NDC to: (i) maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) without
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the
Association's representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project, and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents; and (ii) furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   YPSC shall enable the Association's representatives to examine plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and(l equipment of YPSC, PIAA, NSC
and NDC and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.10. YPSC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, YPSC shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.11. (0) YPSC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations Under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   YPSC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by YPSC of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.12. YPSC shall, by December 31, 1975, or such other date as
may be agreed by the Association, conduct as necessary additional studies for the
purpose of determining the dredging works to be carried out under Part (G) of
the Project. Dredging works determined to be necessary shall be executed after
the approval of the Association.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of YPSC
Section 3.01. YPSC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, YPSC shall
not sell, lease, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of any of' its rights or assets
except in the ordinary course of business.
Section 3.03. YPSC shall at all times maintain its existence and the right
to carry on its operations, and shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights and franchises which are necessary or LisefIl in the conduct
of its business.
Section 3.04. YPSC shall at all times operate its undertaking and conduct
its affairs in accordance with appropriate business, financial, engineering and port
practices, and shall operate, maintain, renew and repair its plants, machinery,
equipment and property as required in accordance with appropriate business and
engineering practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. YPSC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. YPSC shall: (i) have the accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) of
YPSC, PAA, NSC and NDC for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such yeai, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such,
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and    (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of' YPSC', PAA, NSC
and NDC and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿7
Section 4.03. YPSC shall, for the purpose of setting tariffs: (i) not later
than December 31, 1976 or such other date as shall be agreed by the Association,
revalue its assets on the basis of replacement cost and (ii) thereafter carry out
from time to time appropriate revaluations.
Section 4.04. YPSC shall not later than three months after the revaluation
of its assets pursuant to Section 4.03(i) of this Agreement, or such other date
as shall be agreed with the Association, establish appropriate asset-based measures
of financial efficiency acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.05. (a) YPSC shall, by December 31, 1975, or such other date
as may be agreed by the Association, after reviewing the findings of the Port
Development Study, agree with the Association on bases and levels of tariffs for
the services provided by YPSC Units, which shall enable YPSC to: (i) cover the
cost of the services rendered and, (ii) realize the optimum   earnings therefrom
considering the competitive position of Aden Port vis-a-vis other ports.
(b)   YPSC shall, not later than February 29, 1976, or such other date as
may be agreed by the Association, implement the tariffs referred to in Sub-section
(a) of this Section.
(c)   YPSC   shall review  with the Borrower and the Association, and
thereafter adjust, the tariffs implemented pLursuant to Sub-section (b) of this Section
after the revaluation of YPSC's assets pursuant to Section 4.03(i) of this Agreement,
and in any event not later than March 31, 1977.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, YPSC shall
not incur any debt if its net disposable revenues for the fiscal year next preceding
the (late of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ending prior to
the date of such incurrence, whichever amount is the  greater, shall be less than
1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements for any Succeeding fiscal year
on all its debt, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         "debt" means all debt of YPSC, including debt guaranteed by
Y"SC, maturing by its terms more than one year after the (late
on which it is originally incurred,
(ii)        debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the ldate of execution
and delivery of the contract or other document providing for
such debt or modifying its terms of payment-
S


﻿8
(iii)      the term   "net disposable revenues" means gross operating
revenue from all sources, less all operating expenses, including
adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, administrative expenses and
the contribution required to be made by YPSC towards its
capital expenditures out of its revenues for the twelve-month
period immediately succeeding the fiscal year in question or
twelve-month period to which such revenues relate but before
provision for depreciation and debt service requirements;
(iv)        the term  "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(v)         whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary
to value in the currency of the Borrower debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the rate
of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable by YPSC,
at the time such valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing
such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at
the rate of exchange that will be reasonably determined by the
Association.
Section 4.07. YPSC shall, not later than December 31, 1976 or such other
date as may be agreed by the Association, establish a management accounting
system for PAA which shall be compatible with the accounting system used in
other Units of YPSC.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of YPSC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿9
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify YPSC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For YPSC:
Chairman of the Board of YPSC
Ministry of Communications
Tawahi, Aden,
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen


﻿10
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of YPSC may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board of YPSC or
such other person or persons as YPSC shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. YPSC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of YPSC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by YPSC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Midcldle East and Vorth Africa
YEMEN PORTS AND SHIPPING CORPORATION
By /s / Abdallah S. Ashtal
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE
Procurement
iA.   General Procedures
Goods, works and services shall be procured under contracts to be awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent
of $10,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, YPSC shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, YPSC shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report, by the advisors referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendation
for award of the said advisors and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform YPSC
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.


﻿12
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, YPSC shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform YPSC and state the reasons for such determination.


