                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35412

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                (TF-28361)

                                                  ON A

                     GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 7.1 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

                                                FOR THE

                           ATLANTIC BIOLOGICAL CORRIDOR PROJECT




                                             March 31, 2006




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = Córdobas
                                    NIO 16.39 = US$ 1
                                    US$ 0.061 = NIO 1

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1  December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABC       Atlantic Biological Corridor
BICU      Bluefields Indian and Caribbean University
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CCAD      Central American Commission on Environment and Development (Comisión
          Centro-Americano de Ambiente y Desarrollo)
CIDT      Intersectoral Commission of Demarcation and Land Titling (Comisiones Intersectoriales
          de Demarcación y Titulación)
CONADETI  National Commission for Demarcation and Land Titling (Comisión de Demarcación de
          Tierras indígenas)
CONAGRO   National Agricultural Council
FADCANIC  Foundation for Autonomy and Development of Nicaragua's Atlantic Coast (Fundación
          para la Autonomía y Desarrollo de la Costa Atlántica de Nicaragua)
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GON       Government of Nicaragua
IADB      Inter-American Development Bank
IDA       International Development Association
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
INIFOM    Nicaraguan Institute for Municipal Development (Instituto Nicaraguense de Fomento
          Municipal)
IPDP      Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
MARENA    Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (Ministerio del Ambiente y los Recursos
          Naturales de Nicaragua)
MBC       Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
NGO       Nongovernmental Organization
NDF       Nordic Development Fund
NEAP      National Environmental Action Plan
NEF       National Environment Fund
NFAP      National Forestry Action Plan
OP        Operational Policy
PHRD      Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PRODEP    Land Administration Project (Proyecto de Ordenamiento de la Propiedad)
PROTIERRA Rural Municipalities Project
PSR       Project Supervision Report
RAAN      Northern Autonomous Atlantic Region (Región Autónoma del Atlántico Norte)
RAAS      Southern Autonomous Atlantic Region (Región Autónoma del Atlántico Sur)

SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
SERENA  Natural Resources Secretariats (Secretária de Recursos Naturales)
SIAR    Regional Environmental Information system (Sistema de Información Ambiental Regional
SINIA   National System of Environmental Information (Sistema Nacional de Información
        Ambiental)
URACCAN University of the Autonomous Regions of the Atlantic Coast of Nicaragua (Universidad
        de las Regiones Autónomas de la Costa Caribe Nicaragüense)



                            Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                          Country Director       Jane Armitage
                           Sector Director       Laura Tuck
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Douglas J. Graham

                                        NICARAGUA
                              Atlantic Biological Corridor (GEF)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrower's Summary ICR                                                  30
Annex 9. Map A1 - Natural Habitats of Nicaragua (IBRD-28754)                     47
Annex 10. Map A2 - Atlantic Biological Corridor Project (IBRD-28756)             48

Project ID: P041790                                                  Project Name: Atlantic Biological Corridor (GEF)
Team Leader: Douglas J. Graham                                       TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 31, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Atlantic Biological Corridor (GEF)                       L/C/TF Number: TF-28361
   Country/Department: NICARAGUA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (49%); Central government administration
                            (22%); Other social services (17%); General education sector (12%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P); Participation and civic
                            engagement (P); Indigenous peoples (S); Land administration and management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/22/1995                                     Effective: 10/20/1998                10/20/1998
     Appraisal: 10/15/1996                                         MTR: 02/01/2001                  09/24/2001
      Approval: 06/25/1997                                      Closing: 03/31/2003                 09/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA/MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT
                      Other Partners:      Nordic Development Fund

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  D. Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:                 Abel Mejia                                     John Redwood
Team Leader at ICR:             Douglas J. Graham                              Luis F. Constantino
ICR Primary Author:             Gunars Platais; Teresa M.
                                Roncal


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Project Development Objective of the GEF-financed Atlantic Biological Corridor Project was to
promote the integrity of a biological corridor along the Atlantic slope of Nicaragua by ensuring the
conservation and sustainable use of biological resources in the region. From a biological perspective, the
Atlantic Coast is extremely rich in ecological regions and ecosystems of global importance. Nicaragua's
Atlantic Coast is a critical link in the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (MBC), which stretches from
southern Mexico to Panama. The project was associated with the World-Bank-financed Nicaragua Rural
Municipalities Project (PROTIERRA­P007790; closed March 1, 2002), which addressed root causes of
biodiversity loss on the Pacific and Atlantic Coasts1. This objective was accomplished by improving the
policy and legal frameworks for environmental and natural resources management. Several types of
training in environmental management were provided that increased the awareness and knowledge of
managers and technical specialists, and enhanced their ability to analyze and implement the GON's national
priorities. This training included staff of MARENA and several other government agencies responsible for
environmental governance. Under PROTIERRA, MARENA established "rules of the game" for future
environmental operations in protected areas management and coastal zone management.

Sustainability of the Atlantic Biological Corridor at project design was perceived as more likely if the
following activities were carried out:
    l Widely and aggressively promoting and disseminating the ABC concept to local communities,
         regional and national institutions, international organizations, and society at large
    l Improving coordination of activities between regional governments and the international donor
         community
    l Developing a strategy and action plan to continue attracting international and domestic funds to
         support corridor-related activities beyond the life of the project
    l Strengthening local organizations, in particular, by the demarcation of indigenous lands2 and
         assistance to indigenous communities
    l Establishing a financial mechanism (under the NEF) to ensure the financing of recurrent costs of
         protected area management (to be supported by the IDA-financed components of PROTIERRA).

1
 The availability of unowned and unexploited land on the Atlantic Coast acts as a magnet for the disadvantaged
from the more densely populated regions. The high rate of population growth, about 3.1% nationally, contributes to
the eastward push of colonists. As poor families have migrated from the Pacific and Central zones and as the
central government sought land on which to settle ex-combatants from the civil war, forest clearing for subsistence
farming increased along with extensive livestock operations, commercial logging, mining, and fishing. To reduce
the pull factors on the Atlantic Coast and stabilize communities, the GON is also implementing or developing
donor-supported projects to promote conservation and sustainable use of biological resources on the Atlantic Coast.
2
 It was not until the Constitution of 1987, the Autonomy Law of 1987, and the Partial Reform of the Constitution
of 1995 were enacted that the rights of indigenous communities in the Atlantic region to their traditional lands and
use of natural resources within those lands was explicitly recognized.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions of the objectives of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 Public Communication and Education (US$1.16 million, 6.7% of total project cost): The objectives
of this component were to (a) raise the level of public discussion on the ABC and related issues of
biodiversity in the context of sustainable development, (b) create broad public support for the ABC, (c)



                                                        - 2 -

create social and political incentives for the participation of key stakeholders, (d) generate international
recognition for the Nicaraguan effort to foster environmentally friendly international investments on the
Atlantic Coast, (e) contribute to the long-term sustainability of the GEF-financed project, and (f) secure
donor support for conservation and rural development programs on the Atlantic Coast.

3.3.2 Corridor Planning and Monitoring (US$5.02 million, 28.8% of total project cost): The objectives
of this component were to (a) carry out a process of participatory planning that, in the short term, would
finalize the definition of the ABC and, in the medium term, provide an instrument to prioritize and
coordinate sustainable development and biodiversity conservation activities within and around the ABC; (b)
develop a series of local, regional, and national level plans that reflected the agreements between key
stakeholders and decisionmakers directed at establishing and conserving the ABC; (c) support subnational
regional governments on international donor coordination; and (d) develop the capacity within MARENA
and in the Regions to monitor the ABC, monitor trends in natural resources use and biodiversity
conservation in support of corridor protection, and lastly, monitor planning, and the subsequent
prioritization and targeting of ABC-related activities.

3.3.3 Priority Biodiversity Areas (US$8.59 million, 49.3% of total project cost): The objectives of this
component were to (a) strengthen the management and protection of legally declared protected areas within
the context of decentralization of the administration and management of the Atlantic Protected Areas
System; and (b) enhance the conservation and protection of biodiversity outside of the legally protected
areas by influencing the trends in land use toward conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. Rather
than extending over the entire corridor, this component would target resources at the priority areas
identified during preparation. The criteria included (a) high importance of biodiversity, (b) resources or
plant/animal species currently threatened or likely to be threatened, and (c) areas or species lacking
adequate support from donors or GON.

3.3.4 Indigenous Communities Development (US$2.50 million, 14.4% of total project cost): This
component was intended to finance consultants, workshops, training and dissemination materials, study
tours and travel expenses, public works, and incremental recurrent costs to (a) strengthen indigenous
organizations by including training in natural resource management; (b) support the regional governments
and the National Commission for Demarcation of Indigenous Lands; and (c) support indigenous land
demarcation activities.

3.3.5 Support to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) (US$0.13 million, 0.8% of total project cost;
Credit No. 2918-NI: US$1.00 million for first 4 years): This component was scheduled to finance
consultant and operating costs of the PIU in the last year of the project when the PROTIERRA project
would have been completed. In the first four years, the PIU was to be financed through the IDA-financed
component of PROTIERRA. Due to delays in meeting conditionalities, the PIU was able to rely on
PROTIERRA financing for only the first year of operation. During remaining years, PIU expenditures
were financed through reallocated funds, as agreed in the first amendment to the project.

3.4 Revised Components:
In 1998, Nicaragua was hit with Hurricane Mitch, the most destructive hurricane in the nation's history. An
estimated 3,000 people died; 1 million people were affected; and an estimated 151,215 homes, 512 schools,
140 health centers, 5,700 roads, and 1,900 bridges were damaged or destroyed. Damages were estimated at
US$1.5 billion. Despite the crisis generated by the hurricane, project components did not change
substantially during implementation. However, an Emergency Assistance Program was added to the PIU
Component. This program consisted of restoring, reactivating, improving, and transforming socioeconomic
infrastructure destroyed and/or damaged by the hurricane. This program executed funds from



                                                     - 3 -

PROTIERRA, which did not have a presence on the Atlantic Coast. The program benefited 90 indigenous
and nonindigenous communities.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The performance rating for this aspect is considered Satisfactory. Before approval, the project met
currently accepted Quality-at-Entry standards in applying World Bank procedures, policies, and
safeguards. The project objectives were consistent with the CAS, the donor program, and government
priorities.

An overarching objective of the assistance strategy was to strengthen the government's capacity to manage
the country's longer-term development agenda. However, limited IDA resources required that the Bank's
program in Nicaragua be highly selective. Consequently, over FY95­99, the assistance strategy adopted a
2-track approach. The first track would maintain a sharp focus on macroeconomic stabilization to lay the
foundation for a sustained and private-sector-led economic recovery. Adjustment lending was the
centerpiece of this effort and would be reinforced by an intensive policy dialogue, analytical work and
increased donor coordination and resource mobilization. The second track would concentrate on equity and
sustainable development by focusing on (1) capacity building; (2) poverty alleviation and human resource
development; (3) restoration of physical and social infrastructure; and (4) improved environmental
management.

The GON showed a high degree of ownership of the project and concurred with the Bank that poverty
alleviation, natural resources management, and securing land rights of indigenous communities on the
Atlantic Coast were important national goals. The GON also agreed that addressing these goals in a
decentralized manner would be the most effective means. The government supported community-driven and
participatory development and quickly absorbed these approaches into its own strategic thinking on the role
of municipalities as instruments of social and economic development. During preparation, an Indigenous
Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) was prepared through extensive consultation with indigenous
communities.

Project risks were adequately identified and included (1) high rates of population growth on the Atlantic
Coast; (2) uncertain financial sustainability of protected areas; (3) insufficient presence of MARENA on
the Atlantic Coast; (4) uncertain capacity of subnational regional governments to control natural resources
management; (5) uncertain capacity of beneficiaries to generate high-quality subprojects; (6) the possibility
of inadequate support and participation of key stakeholders; and (7) the possibility that sectoral
coordination would fail, creating imbalances in implementation that might increase threats to the biological
corridor.

These risks were dealt with during project implementation. Two risks were addressed at the outset and
established as conditions of effectiveness and disbursement, respectively. The first addressed demarcation
and titling decrees and/or legislation for indigenous lands. The second referred to a decree that would
regulate the National Environment Fund in form and substance. In hindsight, despite delaying project
implementation, the indigenous land titling legislation conditionality was essential to new legislation
allowing for the titling of communally held territories. This legislation provided a significant advance in
regularizing indigenous territories in Nicaragua.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's overall performance is rated as Satisfactory.



                                                    - 4 -

The project contributed to the development of a regional planning framework to conserve and manage
biodiversity while supporting the development of policies, strategies, and planning and monitoring tools.
These instruments strengthened the ability of central, regional, and local governments and organizations to
conserve biodiversity and manage natural resources. This, in turn, facilitated medium- to long-term
strategic planning. As an overall impact, stakeholders now recognize that a biologically important corridor
of natural habitat extends along the Atlantic Coast. The regional governments agree and also are committed
to support activities that will conserve the ABC. In addition, the project worked with the region's poorest
people by focusing on increasing incomes while protecting the environment through small-scale natural
resources projects.

Despite these efforts, the indicator of diminishing or reverting deforestation was not achieved in all priority
biodiversity areas. Historical land use change analysis of some areas shows an expansion of the
agricultural frontier. In certain vulnerable areas of the Atlantic Coast, the pressure of migration on the
agricultural frontier simply overwhelmed all efforts to stabilize it. In some areas, failure to move quickly
and consolidate indigenous land rights contributed to this scenario. Nevertheless, the investment in park
infrastructure, park management plans, and local personnel greatly slowed illegal invasions into protected
areas compared to what might have happened in the absence of the project's investments.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Public Communication and Education
The most important result in this component, rated as Satisfactory, was the increase in the level of
awareness and knowledge of the ABC as a part of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor at the
international, national, and subnational levels. In the last case, this was important in the North and South
Autonomous Atlantic Regions (RAAN and RAAS, respectively, Map A1, Annex 9). This component also
supported institutional strengthening of the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources
(MARENA), and the Autonomous Regional Governments1. The project was successfully introduced to key
stakeholders in the Atlantic Region and to the Nicaraguan public at large. The component also was able to
promote the concept of biological corridors in national, subnational and local deliberations regarding
sustainable development2. In addition, the national communication strategy was well executed through
massive national and regional campaigns. The project's message was disseminated throughout priority
areas in local languages by means of televised programs, videos, advertising spots, seminars,
announcements, and written materials.

1The Autonomous Atlantic Regions were first recognized as such by Law 28 (September 7, 1987). It provided the
recognition of the multiethnic characteristic of the population indigenous to the Atlantic Coast of Nicaragua. It also
provided the legal backing for municipal decentralization and the recognition of the rights of the people of the
Atlantic Coast to use the natural resources found on their lands.
2  Biological corridors were introduced in conservation as a means to counter the isolation of species and
population extinction that reduce biological diversity.

4.2.2 Corridor Planning and Monitoring
This component, rated as Satisfactory, directly helped conserve biodiversity in Nicaragua's Atlantic Coast.
The component's main accomplishments were to (1) carry out the Atlantic Coast region's first
participatory planning process, which generated strong local ownership and provided an instrument with
which to prioritize and coordinate sustainable development and biodiversity conservation activities; (2)
develop a series of local, subnational, and national plans reflecting agreements between key stakeholders
and decision-makers directed at establishing and conserving the ABC; (3) support subnational governments



                                                        - 5 -

in international donor coordination; and (4) develop the capacity within MARENA and the Regions to
monitor the ABC and trends in natural resources use and biodiversity conservation to support corridor
protection and planning, and subsequent prioritization and targeting of ABC-related activities.

The project's support for community planning was important in creating local ownership of the planning
process. The project not only facilitated the entire process in a highly participatory manner but also carried
out in situ capacity building for local participants as well as land use planning and natural resource
management (NRM) training for 60 local technicians. These activities enriched the ensuing discussions and
created new planning and NRM skills within the communities. In this context, 89 Community Planning
Programs were prepared. These provided communities with a management tool to guide decisions about
future investments and help assess socioeconomic and environmental impacts in priority areas.

Included in support to community planning was the establishment of Regional Planning Committees in both
Autonomous Regions. These committees are composed of representatives of regional government councils,
mayors' offices, private sector, universities, community organizations, and civil society. The committees
function as a forum to promote consultation and facilitate participation by enabling stakeholders to analyze
and evaluate policies, laws, programs, projects, actions, and alternatives. This empowerment through
participation has resulted in improved analytical capacity to provide solutions to decision-makers and has
strengthened the Autonomous Regions.

The second important accomplishment consisted of the design and implementation of the strategic
development plans of both Autonomous Regions. These regional plans included the municipal development
plans. The former were incorporated in Nicaragua's 10-year National Development Plan. The process
opened a dialogue between the Pacific and Atlantic Coasts of Nicaragua on strategies to deal with the
agriculture frontier. The project led this process by providing technical and financial assistance for
analytical work including land classification, which served as the basis for the strategic regional planning
process. This assistance enabled the inclusion of biological corridors as an integral part of the definition of
sustainable development in regional policy discussions on land use planning and natural resource
management. The project facilitated highly specialized regional technical planning assistance, including
institutional and organizational aspects; and the identification of environmental planning instruments.
Training local leaders contributed to richer discussions on integrating the corridor concept in the planning
process and created local ownership of the policy dialogue about the biological corridor.

A third accomplishment was the project's support to the two Regional Land Use Strategies for the Atlantic
Coast (one for the North and one for the South). During this process, the project contributed to an
important series of roundtable discussions among key sectors and translated community plans into local
indigenous languages. This process led to the Regional Strategies being officially presented to the
Consultative Group (Donors Meeting) in October 2003. An important project achievement was the
increased capacity of regional governments to discuss and negotiate directly with external donors on
development issues.

A fourth accomplishment was the capacity developed to monitor the ABC and trends in natural resources
use and biodiversity conservation. The monitoring focused on support of corridor protection and planning
and subsequent prioritization and targeting of project-related activities. To this effect, baseline and
analytical studies supported by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) were carried out on sectors including
Fishing and Marine Resources, Forestry, Tourism, Production Systems, Territorial Planning, and
Municipal Planning. These studies were approved by the main stakeholders of both Autonomous Regions
and served as inputs to shape the Regional Sustainable Development Strategy document. At the national
level, another important outcome of the project's support through technical assistance was the approval by


                                                     - 6 -

Executive Decree No. 50-2001 of the Nicaraguan Forest Policy, which introduced the first coherent set of
forest programs and projects. Similarly, fishing, transportation, and infrastructure policies were approved
with project support.

Other major monitoring achievements included:
   l Completion of the ecosystems map of Nicaragua as a part of a regional initiative to create an
        ecosystems map of Central America, led in part by the World Bank and the Central American
        Commission of Environment and Development (CCAD).
   l A historical analysis was undertaken of vegetative cover changes (changes in land use) and of the
        biophysical characteristics of the entire country. This map provides what is now the principal
        classification system of natural habitats in the country.
   l The Regional Environmental Information System (SIAR) (www.siar.org.ni) and Regional
        Monitoring Program were among the first project-supported initiatives targeted at decentralization.
        An interinstitutional agreement was signed between MARENA and the Caribbean Coast University
        of Nicaragua (URACCAN) in Bluefields and Puerto Cabezas. With the project's support,
        representatives from these institutions established, with the National System of Environmental
        Information (SINIA) (www.sinia.net.ni), a strategic working agenda to create a short-term
        administrative structure that included the majority of key stakeholders involved in biodiversity
        monitoring of the Caribbean Coast.
   l The design and implementation of the decentralized Environmental Regional Monitoring Program
        of the Caribbean Coast of Nicaragua, supported by local universities (URACCAN and Bluefields
        Indian and Caribbean University, or BICU), the regional NGO FADCANIC (Fundación para la
        Autonomia y Desarrollo de la Costa Atlántica de Nicaragua), and MARENA.
   l The project was instrumental in supporting a process that led to the creation of a consensus on
        regional environmental monitoring standards for the Atlantic Coast of Nicaragua.

4.2.3 Priority Biodiversity Areas
This component is considered Moderately Satisfactory. It strengthened the institutional structures for
management and protection of legally declared protected areas as well as decentralized the administration
and management of the Atlantic Protected Areas System. Biodiversity conservation in buffer zones outside
legally protected areas was enhanced by influencing the trends in land use through the quite successful
subprojects program.

That said, the key indicator of slowing deforestation rates in two selected project areas (Cerro Silva and
Wawashan Reserves) was not achieved. Data available showed that annual deforestation rates (calculated
as % of reserve area) for closed broadleaf forests in the periods 1989-1999 and 2000-2003 actually
increased from 3.7% to 5.9% in Cerro Silva and from 1.7% to 3.9% in Wawashan. The high 2000-2003
rates measure deforestation in the first half of the project; satellite images of interpretable quality could not
be obtained to measure trends in the last three years of the project, when many of the project measures
(building of park infrastructure, hiring park guards, participatory preparation of management plans
completed only in 2004, strengthening regional park units, etc.) came into effect. Anecdotal evidence
suggested that deforestation rates slowed substantially in the last three years. These two reserves are the
areas of most intense deforestation in Nicaragua and it may have been inappropriate to use them as
characteristic of the entire ABC; the bulk of forested areas in the Atlantic Biological Corridor, particularly
in the northern portion of Nicaragua's Atlantic Coast, underwent conversion rates which were much lower
or even have remained largely intact.

The long-term sustainability of the ABC depends to a great degree on the conservation of large areas of
intact natural habitat connected by thinner strips of relatively well conserved habitat. Although patches



                                                      - 7 -

were reduced in size, the project contributed to this long-term goal of biodiversity conservation through a
number of concerted efforts and it seems reasonable to conclude that without the project, Nicaragua would
not now have anything in place to slow the rapidly moving agricultural frontier.

First, MARENA's Department of Protected Areas was supported with technical staff who coordinated the
process of protected areas administration in both RAAN (i.e., northern half of the Atlantic Coast) and
RAAS (i.e., southern half) with a gradual decentralization to regional authorities. An ongoing academic and
practical capacity building program also increased protected areas' administrative capabilities.

In-depth studies of Cayos Miskitos, Cerro Silva, Wawashan, and other priority protected areas (Map A2,
Annex 10) were completed. A participatory process with key actors reached consensus on the limits of the
protected areas. Subsequently, management and implementation plans for Cayos Miskitos, Cerro Silva, and
Wawashan were completed. Co-management and community development plans with georeferenced
databases were developed for each protected area. Different options were considered and validated. In
addition, the conservation status and viability of the corridors connecting Wawasháng and Cerro Silva were
determined with biological (e.g., ecosystems, vegetative cover, and wildlife presence), socioeconomic, and
cultural assessments. In addition, a Land Use Planning proposal for Waspám Municipality was drafted
through a highly participatory process and was officially approved by the Mayor's office. This Land Use
Plan is now the management tool guiding programs in the municipality and is recognized as a major
achievement of the project in the RAAN.

Second, the project supported the development and approval of the National Environmental Fund (NEF), a
financial mechanism designed to capture and allocate financing to environmental management. The NEF
was approved on October 15, 2001 and resolved a pending conditionality required by the Legal Agreement
for the Community Subprojects component. Although NEF was created, it did not function as anticipated
due to limited government support. In July 2003, an amendment to the Legal Agreement removed the
conditionality and the subprojects were finally launched. In anticipation of these funds being released and
given the short amount of time left for subproject implementation, the project team had identified and
partially prepared subprojects to expedite implementation. However, due to lack of implementation
follow-up on some later subprojects, these final subprojects were ultimately not as effective as they might
have been if there had been more time. At this time, NEF is being strengthened and eventually may bring
the intended benefits to Nicaragua.

Third, based on the Community Development Plans, 22 conservation and sustainable natural resource
management subprojects were formulated and implemented. Nine of these subprojects were in the RAAS,
in which 40 communities benefited from project support; and 13 were in the RAAN, in which 24
communities benefited. These subprojects were focused on strengthening production systems (such as
agroforestry, community tourism, artisanal fishing, and biodiversity conservation) and municipal
environmental health management. As a result of these efforts, families located in protected areas, buffer
zones, and interconnecting corridors were able to improve their standard of living. This improvement was
accomplished by implementing biodiversity-friendly sustainable production practices. In addition,
productive capacities were strengthened through training, which introduced environmentally friendly
agricultural production technologies.

An important outcome of the subprojects was the full involvement of local indigenous nongovernmental
organizations in their design and co-management. This involvement required strengthening these NGOs in
technical and financial management aspects as well as in fundraising.

The Regional Subproject Committees were important because of the local ownership garnered through the


                                                      - 8 -

process. These committees were formed in RAAN and RAAS and were the entities responsible for
subproject decisionmaking and follow-up. In light of their success and as an indicator of continuity, they
are being used in other investment projects such as the IADB­funded Socio-Environmental and Forestry
Development Program (POSAF Phase II).

Other important contributions resulting from this component were:
   l Support for building physical infrastructure including the MARENA Office Delegation in Puerto
         Cabezas, a multiuse building in Waspám, and a Regional Information System Office in Bluefields
   l Assistance in refurbishing the Protected Areas Administrative office in Bluefields, the Capacity
         Training and Library Center in Puerto Cabezas, and five park guard houses
   l Support provided to the Autonomous Governments to create the Natural Resources Secretariats
         (SERENAs). In the case of RAAS, seed capital was provided that allowed its first activities to be
         strengthened and launched. The SERENA offices are continuing some project activities. Perhaps
         more important is their role in the decentralization of protected areas and biodiversity management.


4.2.4 Indigenous Communities Development
One key element of the GON's strategy for the Atlantic Coast is to minimize access to priority areas of
high biodiversity. One mechanism is to strengthen and enforce indigenous communities' land and natural
resources rights. The objectives of this component were to strengthen indigenous communities and their
organizations, to improve their capacity to sustainably manage communal natural resources, and to
strengthen and enforce their land and natural resources rights.

This component is rated as Satisfactory because it achieved this objective to a large extent. The project
promoted a series of policies that integrated indigenous people in the national regulatory framework by
recognizing and respecting their territorial rights. The 1987 Political Constitution and the Atlantic
Autonomous Region Law significantly changed Nicaraguan policies toward indigenous populations in the
country, opening the possibility of full tenure of traditional lands and control of their natural resources. The
1995 constitutional reform introduced new concepts such as "ethnic, social, and political pluralism and
indigenous peoples." This terminology created a new awareness of ethnic groups.

The project was a major supporter of the consultative process and consensus building for the indigenous
communities of the Atlantic Coast and Bosawas Territorial Demarcation Law. The Executive Branch
introduced the bill in October 1998. After a long consultative process in RAAN and RAAS, financed in
part by the project, the Law on the Communal Property Rights of Indigenous People and Ethnic
Communities of the Atlantic Coast, Bocay, Coco, Indio and Maíz Rivers (Law 445), was submitted to the
National Assembly in 2000 and approved in December 2002.

Through the project, MARENA supported the Regional Governments (RAAN and RAAS) in drafting
institutional norms and administrative procedures for land titling and demarcation of indigenous territories.
The drafting was done in working sessions with Regional Councils and indigenous communities. The
National Commission for Demarcation and Land Titling (CONADETI) was formed with project support,
as were the Intersectoral Commissions on Demarcation and Land Titling (CIDT). Ordinary and
extraordinary sessions were held with CIDT in RAAS and RAAN to analyze requests for demarcation
presented by indigenous communities. The project provided cartographic information and developed a
Geographic Information System relating to indigenous communities within RAAN and RAAS. This
information was updated as new demarcation information became available, and thematic maps of the
indigenous communities were created. These institutional norms and administrative processes were an
important contribution to the communities as it introduced co-management, local organizational


                                                      - 9 -

arrangements, the Operational Manual, and members' responsibilities.

The project supported the legalization of 24 indigenous organizations in RAAN and 5 organizations in
RAAS. Legalization was supported by capacity building in social, administrative, technical, financial, land
tenure legalization, natural resources management, and biodiversity conservation aspects. In addition, the
project supported training in topics such as environmental and community-related conflict resolution,
indigenous community-oriented leadership, autonomous rights, basic indigenous rights, demarcation and
land title issues in accordance with Law 445, natural resources management (including policies, laws, and
regulations), bookkeeping, women's rights, gender, and sound household financial management.

In conclusion, local organizations, indigenous communities, and ethnic groups are better trained in
managing natural resources. In addition, they are contributing to the formulation of a proposal on territorial
land use planning for the autonomous regions with updated information in studies and diagnostic
evaluations aimed at the planning and development of local regions.

4.2.5 Support to the Project Implementation Unit
This component is rated as Satisfactory because it successfully financed project implementation while
strengthening administrative and financial capacities of project staff. The Operational Plan was adjusted to
address internal and external factors affecting project success. For example, the project successfully
managed responses to Hurricane Mitch. Training regional personnel in administrative processes (following
World Bank and GON procedures) and technical issues related to decentralizing the project was another
important element in the PIU's success.

According to the original design, the IDA component of the Rural Municipalities Project was to finance the
PIU during its first four years. Approximately US$1 million were allocated under Credit No. 2918-NI for
this purpose. However, due to the two-year delay in effectiveness of the ABC Project, there was a
corresponding extension the project, and the PIU funding came from the reallocation of project funds.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is considered to be Substantial.

The project played a significant role in improving the country's ability to make effective use of its human
and financial resources to manage natural resources and conserve biodiversity. The decentralization of
MARENA's administration of the project to the Atlantic Coast was an important element in the success of
local ownership and the ability of local governments to manage natural resources. Other contributions
included:
   l Supporting the consultative process and consensus building that led to the enactment of Law 445.
         As a result, the communities of Nicaragua's Atlantic Coast gained the right to claim their
         territories and manage the resources on them.
   l Facilitating project-supported participatory processes significant in developing the Regional
         Strategies for the Atlantic Coast regions. The Community Planning Programs also were prepared
         in a participatory manner. They provided communities with a management tool to guide their
         decisions about future investments by assessing socioeconomic and environmental impacts in



                                                     - 10 -

         priority areas.
    l Assisting to develop a regional planning framework for the conservation and sustainable use of
         biodiversity by strengthening the ability of central, regional, and local governments and
         organizations to conserve biodiversity and manage natural resources.
    l Facilitating the establishment of the Regional Planning Committees in the Atlantic Coast regions
         and of the Regional Environmental Information System (SIAR). Both have strengthened the
         Atlantic Coast regions as they seek to improve their socioeconomic, environmental, and cultural
         development.
    l Supporting the Atlantic Coast regional governments in the creation of the Natural Resources
         Secretariats (SERENA). These secretariats play an important role in the regions by promoting
         biodiversity conservation and natural resource management, as was carried out under the project.
         Equally important is their role in the decentralization of protected areas and biodiversity
         management.
    l Obtaining the full involvement of local indigenous NGOs in the co-management of subprojects.
         These NGOs were strengthened through targeted training that improved their capacity for financial
         management.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Within eight days of Project effectiveness, Nicaragua was devastated by Hurricane Mitch (see Section 3
above). The Bank undertook a rapid assessment of where it could contribute to the relief effort and, as a
result, reallocated US$1 million from the Rural Municipalities Project (PROTIERRA) for
rapidly-disbursing subprojects for this effort. These funds were managed by the GEF project's PIU.
Ultimately, the impacts and disruption caused by Hurricane Mitch were responsible for a one-year delay in
all project activities.

A second factor that was outside the control of either the government or the Implementing Agency was the
delay in disbursement of the Nordic Development Fund due to modifications of the NDF Credit Agreement.
These funds were part of the overall project and eventually were used as counterpart funds. The delay in
the NDF funds delayed disbursements under the Planning Component, because many activities were to be
co-executed by the two funding sources. Eventually, however, all planned project activities were executed.
Cofinancing funds from the Canadian and Dutch governments were fully provided and disbursed.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
One condition for effectiveness was the submission to the National Assembly of a draft law related to the
demarcation and titling of indigenous lands in the Atlantic Coast. The government took more than one year
to comply with this condition.

Additional delays occurred when the government did not meet two disbursement conditions. The first was
the creation of the National Environmental Fund (NEF); the second was the approval of the Indigenous
Peoples Land Demarcation Law. Noncompliance with these conditions delayed disbursements for certain
activities by two years.

The NEF was created in October 2001 at the end of the outgoing Alemán administration. The incoming
Bolaños administration did not provide the political support to advance this initiative. In July 2003, the
World Bank agreed to an amendment in which the NEF conditionality for disbursing US$1 million for
subprojects was removed. This released the funds for the subprojects, albeit late, given that the newly
extended closing date was 15 months away. The project eventually was extended and the subprojects were



                                                     - 11 -

successfully, although hurriedly, implemented.

The land demarcation conditionality was important in moving the agenda to establish legal rights for the
indigenous populations of Nicaragua to manage their traditional lands. By July 2003, a revised draft of the
law was being debated in the National Assembly. With the Bank's approval of the Land Administration
Project (PRODEP), the Bank thought it was appropriate to remove the conditionality and pass the ongoing
dialogue to PRODEP. This removal of the conditionality freed US$800,000 allocated for demarcation
under the GEF-financed project, which was reallocated to support the indigenous land claim process and
natural resources management by indigenous communities.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The MARENA PIU satisfactorily executed and delivered project objectives as measured by the established
indicators. It was undoubtedly helpful that at least several senior consultants were part of the PIU staff for
project identification, preparation, and implementation, especially given that, during this period, the country
had three presidents and four ministers of environment.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The only significant change in project costs was a reallocation of funds within categories. With the delay of
project effectiveness and disbursements for subprojects and demarcation activities, the project was
extended for a total of 2 ½ years. The PIU originally was to be financed during the first four years of the
project with funds from the Rural Municipalities Project (PROTIERRA). Given the delays and the closing
of PROTIERRA in 2002, US$875,000 was reallocated within the GEF-financed project to cover operating
costs.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's overall sustainability is rated as Likely. The project has several important outputs: (1)
increased national and international awareness of the ABC and its underlying concepts; (2) strengthened
national and regional planning mechanisms that incorporate biodiversity concerns for the Atlantic Coast
region; (3) strengthened local planning mechanisms for the Atlantic Coast region; (4) strengthened
long-term capacity to monitor the Atlantic Biological Corridor; (5) better protection of key protected areas;
(6) support for the resolution of indigenous land tenure issues; and (7) better land use practices and
technologies in the biological corridor.

One of the greatest impacts of the project was its support in making the Law on the Communal Property
Rights of Indigenous People and Ethnic Communities of the Atlantic Coast, Bocay, Coco, Indio and Maíz
Rivers (Law 445) a reality. With this law in place, indigenous people's lands have begun to be demarcated
and titles issued, thereby assuring their rights to ancestral lands. Legal title in turn can significantly reduce
pressure on biodiversity, because titled lands are not as easily subject to exploitation by third parties. At the
time of this ICR, legal impediments to registering Law 445 titles are being resolved under the
Bank-financed Land Administration Project (PRODEP).

The planning instruments for regional, municipal, and local development prepared with project support
have been adopted by local governments and are being applied. Regional and local planning and
management efforts are expected to improve as environmental concerns are internalized in the policy
debate. A positive social impact is expected in the medium term as the plans laid out are implemented and
political decision-makers focus on poverty alleviation in a context of environmentally sustainable
development. Reducing poverty will address one of the greatest pressures on natural resources and the
environment in the Atlantic Coast: dependence on natural resources as a mainstay for livelihoods.


                                                     - 12 -

Another important project outcome was the inclusion of the Regional Development Plans of the Atlantic
Coast regions in the National Development Strategy. This long-term vision provides guidelines on natural
resources management and prioritizes areas for conservation and sustainable use. Management plans
approved by local authorities (councils and local commissions) now serve as the strategic bases for NRM
planning, because they promote conservation in large areas of the corridor and provide clear guidelines for
future investors and donors.

Capacity building was an important element from both the technical and sustainability perspectives,
because the project supported training local indigenous technical staff in conservation and sustainable
management of biodiversity. The project also provided training for protected area staff, local communities,
and technical staff in the regional and national offices on issues ranging from protected area management
plans to conflict resolution.

The implementation of community-driven subprojects that focus on strengthening productive systems,
agroforestry systems, community-based tourism, fishing, and biodiversity conservation has strengthened the
productive base while providing avenues for natural resources conservation. These subprojects had an
impact on incomes in recipient communities, thus reducing pressure on natural resources.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
One of the most important operational decisions taken in the course of the project was to decentralize
project management to the Atlantic Coast region, a transition that took place in early 2002. This effectively
brought the project closer to the target populations and made for greater ownership by local and regional
governments.

In effect, the project was successful in supporting the inclusion of biodiversity conservation and improved
natural resource management into the local, regional, and national decision-making processes. Providing
local communities with alternative livelihoods through the subprojects also was important in reducing
pressure on protected areas and biodiversity corridors. These mechanisms will remain in place beyond the
life of the project.

Biodiversity monitoring will need follow-up as it has quickly weakened following project closure. This
follow-up is anticipated by the GEF-financed Nicaragua/Honduras Corazón Transboundary Biosphere
Reserve Project, which will be presented to the Board in FY06.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall performance in project identification, preparation, and appraisal is rated Satisfactory.

The GEF-financed project, integrally linked with the IDA-financed Rural Municipalities Project
(PROTIERRA), focused on promoting the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in priority areas
of Nicaragua's Atlantic Coast region. The importance of highlighting this close association with
PROTIERRA is that the two projects sought to address key poverty alleviation and natural resource
management issues in this region. This approach built upon the country's policies that recognized the rights
of indigenous communities in the Atlantic Coast region to their traditional lands and the use of the natural
resources within these lands.

The project was fully consistent with the CAS and concentrated on equity and sustainable development,


                                                    - 13 -

focusing on (1) capacity building, (2) poverty alleviation and human resource development, (3) restoration
of physical and social infrastructure, and (4) improved environmental management. An overarching
objective of the CAS was to strengthen the government's capacity to manage not only the structural reform
program but also the country's longer-term development agenda.

The project followed applicable Bank safeguard policies and met all financial management and
procurement requirements. While the Bank appraisal correctly analyzed the issues and challenges for each
component, the Bank underestimated the amount of time needed to establish the National Environmental
Fund, a condition of disbursement for community-driven subprojects. Furthermore, the Bank
underestimated the amount of time and effort needed to get the Law on the Communal Property Rights of
Indigenous People and Ethnic Communities of the Atlantic Coast, Bocay, Coco, Indio and Maíz Rivers
(Law 445) approved.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is rated Satisfactory. The Bank carried out close supervision with an average of three to
four missions per year. The supervision mission teams were a broad mix of international and local
professionals. The core supervision team was maintained throughout the project. The current Task Team
Leader became Task Manager in July 1997 and had been involved in the project throughout project
identification. The Task Team Leader likewise served on Bank teams for other projects in Nicaragua, as
well as other environmental projects in Central America, which greatly facilitated project supervision.

With respect to Bank safeguards, the most significant Bank Operational Policy triggered related to
Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.20). More than half of the missions were accompanied by an indigenous peoples
specialist, sociologist, or anthropologist.

The project team and Bank management adapted flexibly to situations that delayed project implementation.
The team facilitated solutions to improve project performance; for instance, four amendments were made to
the project to improve implementation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is considered Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance was Satisfactory. The GON's commitment to project objectives was strong given
that, during project preparation, the Atlantic Coast region was seen as an emerging national priority. The
GON agreed that a participatory approach was the best way to advance the sustainable development of the
region and supported the highly consultative process during project preparation. Despite the weaknesses in
municipal and sub-national governments on the Atlantic Coast, the GON provided the support necessary to
obtain full participation from the regional governments and local communities.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's performance during implementation is rated as Satisfactory. Despite the difficulties in
complying with the Conditions for Effectiveness and Disbursements, which were legislative responsibilities
and not under the direct control of the Executive Branch, the government was committed to project
implementation. Of the expected government cofinancing at appraisal of $1.57 million, 94% was provided.
The initial amount was defined as including about $0.6 million of government counterpart funds, about
$0.6 million of in-kind support from the regional governments, and about $0.4 million of in-kind support
from beneficiaries of subprojects. Only the latter amount was under-executed because the total funding



                                                   - 14 -

made available for subprojects was reduced.

Meeting the Condition for Effectiveness (that is, submitting a draft law on indigenous peoples' land
demarcation and titling) took 14 months after the signing of the Grant Agreement. Subsequently, the
Disbursement Condition for land demarcation activities required passage of the law by the National
Assembly. Realizing the delay that this would cause, the government requested that this condition be
dropped. Recognizing that these issues could be dealt with more effectively in the Bank-funded Land
Administration Project, the Bank agreed to waive the condition. The Disbursement Condition for
community-driven subprojects required the government to approve and constitute a National Environment
Fund (NEF). Doing so proved politically difficult to implement, although the Fund was created by decree.
The NEF eventually was implemented, but not in time for the project to use it as a funding mechanism. The
government recognized these difficulties and requested that his condition also be waived, to which the Bank
agreed. The NEF is still incipient but slowly capitalizing.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the Project Implementation Unit within MARENA is rated as Satisfactory. The PIU
comprised a solid and committed team of professionals who were dedicated to improving the quality of life
of Nicaragua's communities in the Atlantic Coast region. Despite repeated changes at the ministerial level,
project staff maintained consistency and institutional memory throughout the life of the project.

A major turning point in the project was the decentralization of project management to the Atlantic Coast
region. Until that time, the project had been managed by project staff in the nation's capital. Initially, the
regions did not have the capacity to absorb the responsibilities and duties associated with a project of this
nature. Building the regional capacity was a key step in providing the Atlantic Coast with the ability to
manage the financial resources. When the project decentralized, it became closely integrated with activities
of municipal regional governments. The Regional Plans developed with project support were integrated in
the National Strategic Plans. The key fiduciary and administrative oversight remained in the Managua
office.

The PIU effectively managed the PROTIERRA resources for post-Hurricane Mitch activities in the
Atlantic Coast regions.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall project performance of the Borrower is rated Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

l Decentralize to the local level. Decentralizing technical and administrative functions to the Atlantic
    Coast region was important to obtain buy-in at the regional and local levels. According to interviews
    during the ICR mission, until project decentralization, the project had relatively little ownership in the
    Atlantic Coast region. Project decentralization generated support and increased its effectiveness and
    impact.

l Training pays off. Investing in continuous, systematic training was important. Such training enabled
    the incorporation of local people into the project's daily operations and provided them with increased
    ownership of the decisionmaking. Local communities now are able to manage their own financial
    resources and to attract investors and donors with no outside assistance.

l Involve local players in monitoring. Monitoring is significantly improved when it is carried out by




                                                    - 15 -

    local players who are trained and empowered. Involving local universities was important to provide
    training and continuity to the monitoring.

l Foster local ownership at the technical and decisionmaking level. Biodiversity monitoring was
    reduced after project closure. The reduction occurred due to the lack of local ownership and
    understanding of how this information feeds into decisionmaking. It is important to provide training for
    biodiversity monitoring at the technical level as well as to decisionmakers, to enable them to effectively
    use this information.

l Project conditionalities are often a "double-edged sword." There was consensus among individuals
    interviewed during the ICR mission that, had there been no condition for the communal titling law, this
    law never would have materialized. Eventually, the project waived the Disbursement Condition for
    approval of the law, because there was a Bank-financed Land Administration Project better suited to
    take on the land-related activities. In retrospect, the communal titling law condition was a positive
    long-term contribution to consolidating indigenous land rights in the Atlantic Coast region.

l Assess well political realities before setting conditions. The               other unmet Disbursement
    Conditionality was the approval and implementation of the National Environmental Fund (NEF). This
    condition was waived toward the end of the project, after which monies were available for the
    subprojects. The concept of having an NEF that could manage the resources for subprojects made
    eminent sense; however, the political difficulties of implementing this were underestimated.

l Carry out planning in a consultative/participatory manner. Planning instruments should be
    developed, validated through a consultative process, and implemented during the project's life.
    Bringing all stakeholders into the process creates a sense of ownership and empowers them to use the
    tools in their daily decision processes.

l Strengthened local organizations are key to success. It is important to strengthen local organizations
    that represent key stakeholders and are in close coordination with civil society organizations and
    national, regional, and local governments. Strengthening these local organizations facilitates consensus
    building processes and local ownership, which lead in a structured and systematic way to the
    implementation of development plans.

l Plan implementation is ultimately the most important step. Locally designed community
    development plans become powerful and useful tools for strategic development. However, their
    implementation, through national, regional, municipal, and community participation is far more
    important than their design.

l Implementation of a communication strategy is fundamental for success. It is not enough to
    generate technical information and post it on the Internet. For projects such as this one, a full-fledged
    communication strategy needs to be developed and implemented. This approach should be
    wide-reaching and use different media for targeted populations, as carried out under the project.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Vice-Minister of MARENA conveyed to the Bank the Government's comments on the ICR in a letter
to the ESSD Sector Leader of the Central America Country Management Unit for Central America dated
March 23, 2006. The following is a translated version of the comments.



                                                     - 16 -

"The Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (MARENA), as the executing institution,
expresses its agreement with the satisfactory rating presented by the evaluation. The Ministry reiterates its
commitment to contribute to the sustainability of Project results within the framework of the Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor's Corazon Transboundary Biosphere Reserve Project and the Strengthening of the
National Protected Area System Project.

The Government of Nicaragua, thanks the World Bank for its opportune support from project identification
through its closing".




                                                   - 17 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                             - 18 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Reduction in rate of forest cover loss in Cerro Decline from baseline.                         Not achieved. Deforestation rates extremely
Silva and Wawashan from years 1 to 5 of                                                        difficult to quantify, but estimates for annual
Project                                                                                        deforestation rates (% of reserve area) for
                                                                                               closed broadleaf forests (other habitat types
                                                                                               generally stable) 1989-1999 and 2000-2003
                                                                                               show increase from 3.7% to 5.9% in Cerro
                                                                                               Silva and 1.7% to 3.9% in Wawashan.
                                                                                               Anecdotal evidence suggests that in last
                                                                                               three years of project -- not covered in these
                                                                                               periods -- rates decreased to pre-project
                                                                                               levels as project-supported measures started
                                                                                               to come into effect.
By year 5, planning tools of regional           Both Regional Governments have                 Both Regional Governments have
governments reflect the ABC                     incorporated the ABC into their planning       incorporated the ABC into their planning
                                                instruments.                                   instruments.
High priority protected areas come under        Three major PAs to have management plans All three management plans completed,
more effective management                       completed.                                     implementation of plans incipient and
                                                                                               variable.
Indigenous communities in ABC with lands        Five by year 5 of project.                     No areas have been legalized, but through
demarcated and undergoing legalization                                                         the project enabling legislation has been
                                                                                               prepared and approved and the government
                                                                                               is working toward this goal.
Population dynamics of key indicator species Species will be subject to natural variation but N/A
                                                not any major anthropogenic disturbances
                                                such as declining populations or extinction. In
                                                Sept. 2004 definitively considered as being
                                                impossible to measure within the context of
                                                this project.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Knowledge about ABC by key                      60%                                            Final survey reflects 90% decision makers
decision-makers                                                                                interviewed knowledgeable of the ABC.


Knowledge about ABC by regional                 35%                                            A survey in the Atlantic Coast Region (North
population.                                                                                    and South) reflected a 60% level of
                                                                                               knowledge of the ABC of those interviewed at
                                                                                               the community level.
Planning: Ministerial Planning Units reflect    Four by Year 5.                                100% Ministerial plans incorporate ABC
ABC in their sectoral plans                                                                    concepts in their planning.


Planning: Local level plans incorporate ABC     50                                             RAAN-RAAS Natural Resources Secretariat
in their planning                                                                              (SERENAS) reflects 100 % sectoral plans
                                                                                               incorporating ABC concepts.
Monitoring reports with quantitative data on    2                                              Carried out by the Regional Environmental
forests and indicator species                                                                  Monitoring Program of the Caribbean Coast
                                                                                               of Nicaragua


Priority Biodiversity Areas: Invasions          Functional system by end of project.           Technical Protected Area staff carried this
systematically recorded and reported                                                           out. Now this is an activity undertaken by
                                                                                               SERENA.


Communities carrying out sustainable            40                                             40 RAAS
development projects (indicator reformulated                                                   24 RAAN
in MTR) due to project influence                                                               3 Municipalities in Solid Waste projects
Legal framework for titling indigenous lands    Framework approved and functional              Framework approved




                                                                   - 20 -

in place
Indigenous communties participating in   3              Cayos Miskitos Co-management
management of protected areas                           Confederation of the Tawira and Prinzu
                                                        territories 100% legalized.
                                                        Wawashang 24 Communities (100%) under
                                                        Community Co-management Committee, not
                                                        legalized.
                                                        Cerro Silva : 17 Indigenous Communities
                                                        under a Legalized Communal Committee.

1End of project




                                              - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Public Communication and Education                        1.16             0.96           82.76
2. Corridor Planning and Monitoring                          5.01             4.09           81.47
3. Priority Biodiversity Areas                               8.58             7.90           84.98
4. Indigenous Communities Development                        2.50             2.94           117.6
5. Support to Project Implementation Unit                    0.12             1.03         858.33

Total Baseline Cost                                         17.37           16.92
                          Total Project Costs               17.37           16.92
                   Total Financing Required                 17.37           16.92


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            1.05         0.83          0.20         2.08
                                   (0.00)          (0.84)      (0.66)          (0.00)       (1.50)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.24         0.54          0.00         0.78
                                   (0.00)          (0.20)      (0.47)          (0.00)       (0.67)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         2.44          4.50         6.94
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.36)          (0.00)       (2.36)
4. Training                         0.00            0.00         0.83          0.00         0.83
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.78)          (0.00)       (0.78)
5. Subgrants                        0.00            0.32         1.26          4.00         5.58
                                   (0.00)          (0.24)      (0.95)          (0.00)       (1.19)
6. Recurrent Costs                  0.00            0.00         1.16          0.00         1.16
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.60)          (0.00)       (0.60)
   Total                            0.00            1.61         7.06          8.70         17.37
                                   (0.00)          (1.28)      (5.82)          (0.00)       (7.10)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           0.32         0.06           0.20        0.58
                                   (0.00)         (0.32)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.32)
2. Goods                            0.45           0.05         0.03           0.00        0.53
                                   (0.45)         (0.05)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.50)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00         4.32           3.80        8.12
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (4.29)         (0.00)       (4.29)
4. Training                         0.00           0.00         0.92           0.16        1.08


                                                - 22 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.92)            (0.00)           (0.92)
    5. Subgrants                            0.00               0.00              1.19             4.00              5.19
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.80)            (0.00)           (0.80)
    6. Recurrent Costs                      0.00               0.00              1.25             0.17              1.42
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.27)            (0.00)           (0.27)
       Total                                0.45               0.37              7.77             8.33             16.92
                                           (0.45)             (0.37)            (6.28)            (0.00)           (7.10)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Public Communication         0.84         0.12         0.20        0.75         0.01       0.20       89.3      8.3     100.0
and Education
2. Corridor Planning and        1.41         0.10         3.50        1.09         0.05       2.96       77.3      50.0     84.6
Biodiversity Monitoring
3. Priority Biodiversity        3.50         1.08         4.00        2.76         0.99       4.15       78.9      91.7    103.8
Areas
4. Indigenous Communities       1.25         0.25         1.00        1.90         0.01       1.02       152.0     4.0     102.0
Development
5. Support to Project           0.10         0.02         0.00        0.60         0.43       0.00       600.0    2150.0     0.0
Implementation Unit
TOTAL                           7.10         1.57         8.70        7.10         1.49       8.33       100.0     94.9     95.7




                                                           - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              23 Jan. 1996               2    BIOLOGIST(1); FORESTER(1)        S               S
              23-27 Feb. 1996            3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                              BIOLOGIST(1);
                                              ECONOMIST(1)
              27 May 1996                2    BIOLOGISTS(2)                    S               S
              15-27 April 1996                BIOLOGISTS(2)                    S               S
              20-26 June 1996            1     INDIG. EXPERT(1)                S               S
              24-27 July 1996            1    SOCIAL EXPERT(1)                 S               S
              15-22 Aug. 1996            5    FORESTER(1);                     S               S
                                              BIOLOGISTS(3); INST.
                                              EXPERT(1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              23-30 Sept. 1996           5    BIOLOGISTS(2); INST.             S               S
                                              EXPERT(1), SOCIAL
                                              EXPERT(1), INDIG.
                                              EXPERT(1)
              Nov. 96                    1     SOC. EXPERT(1)                  S               S
              9-17 Dec. 1996             4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                              BIOLOGIST(1); INDIG.
                                              EXPERT(1); FORESTER(1)
              10-17 FEb. 1997            1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              14-21 April 1997           7    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
              (Appraisal)                     NATURAL RES. ECON(1);
                                              LAWYER(1); SOC.
                                              EXPERT(1); FORESTER (1);
                                              INST. EXPERT(1); FUNDS
                                              EXPERT(1)

 Supervision
              July 1997                  3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                              BIODIVERSITY
                                              SPECIALIST (1); ENV.
                                              ECONOMIST (1)
              August 1997                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                              BIODIVERSITY SPECIALIST
                                              (1)
              11 Dec 1997                2    BIODI SPECIALIST(1); INDIG.      S               S
                                              SPECIALIST (1)
              June 1998                  2    TASK MANAGER (1); INDIG.         S               S
                                              SPECIALIST (1)
              04 Dec 1998               10    TASK MANAGER (1);                S              HS
                                              GENERAL SUPERVISION (2);
                                              INDIGENOUS ISSUES (1);
                                              LEGAL ISSUES (1);
                                              PROMOTION STRATEGY (1);



                                               - 25 -

                        FINANCIAL CONTROLS (1);
                        NDF COFINANCING (1);
                        LEGAL AND PROMOTION (1);
                        INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES (1)
      Feb 1999        1 TASK MANAGER (1)               S    HS
      08 Dec1999      5 TASK MANAGER (1)               S    HS
                        BACK-UP TASK MANAGER
                        (1); SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                        ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);
                        LAND SPECIALIST (1)
      19 Jan 2000     1 TASK MANAGER (1)               S    HS
      April 2000      1 TASK MANAGER (1)               S    HS
      08 Sept 2000    1 INDIG. SPECIALIST (1)          S    HS
      11 Dec 2000     7 TASK MANAGER (1);              S    S
                        ECONOMIST (1);
                        COMMUNICATIONS-FAO/CP
                        (1); ENV. FUND (1); INFO.
                        MGMT. (1); INDIG.
                        SPECIALIST (1);
                        PLANNING-FAO/CP (1)
      August 2001     1 TASK MANAGER (1)               S    S
      05 Oct 2001     5 TASK MANAGER (1); AG.          S    S
      (MTR)             ECONOMIST (1); SOC.
                        COMM. SPEC. (1); INST.
                        SPEC. (1); INDIG. SPECIALIST
                        (1)
      Feb 2002        1 TASK MANAGER (1)               S    S
      26 Jul /2002    1 TASK MANAGER (1)               S    S
      Oct 2002        5 TASK MANAGER (1);              S    S
                        PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                        DISBURSEMENTS(1); FIN.
                        MGMT (1); GEF COORD.(1)
      05 Dec 2002     3 TASK MANAGER (1);              S    S
                        SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                        ECONOMIST (1)
      April 2003      1 TASK MANAGER (1)               S    S
      15 July 2003    1 TASK MANAGER (1)               S    S
      25 Feb 2004     2 TASK MANAGER (1);              S    S
                        SOCIOLOGIST (1)
      Oct 2004        2 TASK MANAGER (1); SOC.         S    S
                        SPEC.(1)
      May 2005        1 TASK MANAGER (1)               S    S




ICR



                        - 26 -

               20/01/2006             1     ENVT. ECONOMIST(1)                S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               16                          42.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    18                           48
  Supervision                            180                           530
  ICR                                       5                           21
  Total                                  219                         641.7




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

CarlBro International. Marzo 2003. Plan de desarrollo comunitario de Kilómetro 43. Municipio de Puerto
   Cabezas Región Autonoma Del Atlantico Norte. Nicaragua. Versión final

CarlBro International. Julio 2004. Corredor Biológico Del Atlántico. Componente de Planificación y
   Monitoreo. Informe Final. Nicaragua.

Global Environment Facility. June 1997. Nicaragua, Atlantic Biological Corridor Project (Report No.
   16535-NI). Project Document. Washington, DC.

Nicaragua, Republica de. Septiembre, 1987.Estatuto De Autonomía De Las Dos Regiones De La Costa
Atlántica De Nicaragua, Ley No. 28

Nicaragua, Republica de. Noviembre 1993. Plan de Acción Ambiental. Ministerio de Economía y
   Desarrollo.

Nicaragua, Republica de. 2005. Proyecto Corredor Biológico del Atlántico. Colección de reportes,
   informes, presentaciones y videos. CD y DVD.

Nicaragua, Republica de. 2005. Proyecto Corredor Biológico del Atlántico. Informe Final.

Nicaragua, Republica de. 2005. Proyecto Corredor Biológico del Atlántico. Resultados y Productos

Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo. 2005. Informe de Desarrollo Humano 2005. Las
   regiones autónomas de la Costa Caribe ¿Nicaragua asume su diversidad?. 1ª. ed.. Managua.

R.S. Olson, et al. 2001. The Storms of '98: Hurricanes Georges and Mitch: Impacts, Institutions Response,
   and Disaster Politics in Three Countries. Natural Hazards Research and Applications Information
   Center. Special Publication 38. Natural Hazards Research and Applications Information Center
   Institute of Behavioral Science University of Colorado.

World Bank. 1994. Project Appraisal Document for a Proposed Second Economic Recovery Credit
   (P-6340-NI).

World Bank. December 2002. Implementation Completion Report (PPFI-P9710 IDA-29180 TF-29203) on
   a Loan/Credit/Grant in the amount of SDR 20.9 million (US$30 million Equivalent) to the Government
   of Nicaragua for a Rural Municipalities Project.




                                                   - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Summary ICR




           MINISTRY OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES



                    ATLANTIC BIOLOGICAL CORRIDOR PROJECT




                            RESULTS AND PRODUCTS




                                       - 31 -

                                           CONTENT
                                RESULTS AND PRODUCTS
                           ATLANTIC BIOLOGICAL CORRIDOR



1. - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT

2

2.- COMPONENTS AND THEIR RESULTS

3

  2.1 COMPONENT I: Communication, Dissemination and Public Awareness

  3
     2.1.1 - RESULTS AND PRODUCTS: Communication, Dissemination and Public Awareness

     3

  2.2 COMPONENT II: Planning and Monitoring of the Corridor

  3
     2.2.1 RESULTS AND PRODUCTS: Planning and Monitoring of the Corridor

     3

  2.3 COMPONENT III: Biodiversity Prioritized Areas

  5
     2.3.1 RESULTS AND PRODUCTS: Biodiversity Prioritized Areas

     5

  2.4 COMPONENT IV: Indigenous Communities Development

  7
     2.4.1 RESULTS AND PRODUCTS: Indigenous Communities Development

     7

  2.5 COMPONENT V: Coordinating Project Office

  8
     2.5.1 RESULTS AND PRODUCTS: Coordinating Project Office

     8

3. ASSESSMENT OF THE DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE, THE DESIGN AND THE

8

QUALITY OF INITIAL STAGE

8



                                               - 32 -

4. - SUSTAINABILITY

9

ANNEX I: ACRONYMS

11




                       - 33 -

Presentation

The Government of Nicaragua, through the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
(MARENA), has implemented the Atlantic Biological Corridor Project, with the support of the
World Bank. It was executed with funds of the Global Environment Facility (GEF). The project
was executed in a close relationship with both Autonomous Regional Governments of the
Caribbean Cost of Nicaragua, who were strengthened with basic technological tools for strategic
planning in the sustainable use of natural resources.

The decentralization of the processes, technically as well as administrative toward both
Autonomous Regions, meant qualitative and quantitative leaps forward in the project's
executions, because besides generated a capacity training of high performance to local staff;
incorporate them into administrative and technical procedures along the process. Thus, allowing
the increase of the building capacities and technical- cultural exchange. These efforts increase
the goals sequences and increase significantly the participation levels and therefore the project
appropriation.

Capacity training generated by ABC has contributed in forming a great number of local
indigenous technical staff, now in possession of powerful tools for conservation and sustainable
management of biodiversity. On the other hand, Law 445 and the demarcation and land title
issues supported by ABC are contributing to indigenous people to assure their rights on
ancestral land and consolidating the land tenure.

A special emphasis was given to the communities' development plans, which were executed
right from their own knowledge and environments. They became a powerful useful tool for
strategic development. However it is not enough just to publish them, but to guarantee their
implementation through national, regional, municipal and community participation.

The planning instruments for regional, municipal and local development that were elaborated
and officialized by the ABC project have started to be applied. Probably in the future will
influence in getting a major improvement in regional management with an imprinting of
environmental emphasis on political decisions, in both regional as well as local governments.
The positive impact and its social sustainability will be appreciated in the medium term as the
proper planning carries on by the political decision makers would contribute to poverty alleviation
and turn to diminish one of he major focus of pressure on natural resources and environment at
the Caribbean Coast of Nicaragua.

In Conclusion, the ABC initiative has been one of best Central Government's efforts on natural
resources conservation, developed through a strategic program that combines regional,
municipal and local levels, that provides production alternatives in buffer zones, contributing to
end the advancing of the agriculture boundaries, combining efforts with indigenous communities
to delimit and title their lands.

This document summarizes the main results and products that Nicaragua's Government has
carried out through the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources, as a contribution to
the development process of the Caribbean Coast of Nicaragua.




                                                - 34 -

1. - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
The Atlantic Biological Corridor project (ABC) has the objective of promoting the integration of a
Biological Corridor along the Caribbean Coast of Nicaragua, assuring the conservation and the
sustainable use of the biological resources on that region. It is the contribution of Nicaragua to
the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (MBC). The ABC consisted on strategic planning of the
use of the land and a very good array of laws and politics in order to promote the sustainable
management of natural resources and biodiversity in the area of the Caribbean of Nicaragua,
throughout the integration of necessities, priorities and decisions of the different sectorial
agencies of the Nicaragua Government, the regional and local governments, the multi-ethnic
communities, and the private sector.




                                               - 35 -

2.- COMPONENTS AND THEIR RESULTS
2.1 COMPONENT I: Communication, Dissemination and Public Awareness
The purpose of this component was to communicate and to disseminate the concept of the ABC
to the international, national and regional levels, improving the coordination levels, the
organization and the execution capacities of the different decisions makers, at the national and
regional levels. The general population of Nicaragua has known the concept and importance of
the ABC. The main activities of this component were; the dissemination of information, diffusion
of technical and cultural activities as a strategic issues to assure a visibility of the corridor as a
concept of sustainable use of the biological resources of this region.




                                                 - 36 -

2.1.1 - RESULTS AND PRODUCTS: Communication, Dissemination and Public Awareness
The most important result in this component, was the contribution to increase the level of
knowledge and appropriation of the Atlantic Biological Corridor, as a part of the Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor, at the international, national and regional level, particularly in both
Autonomous Atlantic Regions RAAN and RAAS, strengthening the institutional performance of
the Central American Commission of Environment and Development (CCAD), the Ministry of the
Environment and Natural Resources (MARENA), and the Autonomous Regional Governments.
The ABC has been known by the key actors of these regions, and known by the general public in
Nicaragua. Likewise, it achieved the assimilation of the concept of biological corridors and their
importance in the sustainable development. In addition, it was achieved at the national level, the
execution of the communication strategy and dissemination of the ABC concept, through a
national and regional massive campaign of promotion in RAAN and RAAS in local languages,
which included programs in TV, videos, advertising spots, presentation results, seminars,
announcements and written material.

Four national conferences on the ABC were carried out, including the MBC with journalists at the
national level. The design and constant up to date of the Web page of the ABC, contributed to
the increase in the level of information and appropriation of ABC concept and importance. All the



                                               - 37 -

information generated by the project is available to guide political actions of the decision makers
and by general public. This information it is on line in the Web page (www.cbanic.org). It is
considered in both regions that at least 90% of the key decisions makers regional governments,
regional council, local governments, government delegation, nongovernment organizations,
know and use the information generated by the ABC. On the other hand, the ABC concept
knowledge of the local population is considered 50% in the RAAN and 55% in RAAS, especially
due to the work carried out in the last two years. In addition, also it is inferred according to the
rating programming in TV and radial programs that at least 15% of the whole populations of
teachers to national level know the concept of ABC.

2.2 COMPONENT II: Planning and Monitoring of the Corridor
Their objectives were oriented to the promotion of the local institutional capacities in planning
and a sound management of the natural resources, and to give the opportunity to establish a
database and a registration of the biological population on the places of local interest through a
process of participative planning that in a short term, would allow the definition of the ABC, and
in a medium term, would provide an instrument of priority of tendencies and provide the
coordination of activities to the sustainable development and conservation of the biological
diversity inside and around the ABC.

2.2.1 RESULTS AND PRODUCTS: Planning and Monitoring of the Corridor
This component achieved positive results, never before seen in the Atlantic coast of Nicaragua,
such as a planning process with a massive participation of the local indigenous communities had
been carried out. The results of that planning process functioned as baseline to design and
implement the municipal development plans, and the strategic development plans of both
Autonomous Regions. This process culminated with the incorporation of both strategic plans to
the National Development Plan of Nicaragua, which has a futuristic vision for the next 10 years.
This has provided an historical framework in the relationships Pacific-Caribbean regions of
Nicaragua, being the ABC project the leader of this process, offering technical and financing
assistance, with basic studies and land classification that served as modern information for the
regional strategic planning process. In addition, the conservation interests, particularly the
biological corridor concept as sustainable development, has been integrated in the different
regional policies. Now the politic organizations and key leaders have enough capacity to guide
and participate in the integration of the ABC concept in the whole procedures of planning
process.

Also, this component contributed through technical assistance, the approval of the Nicaragua
forest policy, being approved by the executive No.50-2001 in La Gaceta, Official Newspaper
(May 11 the 2001). In a same way, it was approval the fishing, transport and infrastructure
policies

Capacity training to both Regional Governments and ABC personnel in planning methodologies,
were carried out constantly in both Autonomous Regions. These sessions included different key
actors from institutions, Regional Governments Secretaries, Regional Councils; having a main
objective that of creating cleared perspectives, concepts, concrete lines of actions that would
contribute to improve the Regional Governments capacity to function efficiently, as well as
strategy- planning in order to achieve sustainable development. In this context, ABC Project
contributed in that process by facilitating highly specialized technical assistance in regional
planning, focused mainly on institutional organizations tasks and the clear identification of
environmental planning instruments with emphasis on administrative and economical



                                                - 38 -

components.

The staff personnel of regional institutions were intensely trained in strategic regional planning,
methods development for a broader participation of technical staff of both Autonomous Regional
Governments North & South. These recipients obtained highly technical concepts as working
tools for achieving better planning schemes.

The working process to achieve one document on Regional Strategy for the Atlantic Coast was
also assisted by the ABC. However, both Regional Governments decided to present two
strategies, one for the North Region and one for the South Region. Thus, the ABC Project
facilitated the processes by assisting the local staff with technical professionals to help them with
both documents. At the same time, ABC also contributed by forming the round- conference
working tables made up of key sectors that were involved in preparing the consultation draft
documents to the Donors Community. As a result of these efforts, the Regional Strategy for
Development for both RAAN & RAAS was officially presented to the Consultative Group (Donors
Meeting).

Studies on sectors, such as, Fishing & Marine Resources, Forestry, Tourism, Production
Systems, Territorial Planning, and Municipal Planning were created with highly technical-
scientific levels incorporating the ABC concept. These studies were also approved by the main
actors of both Autonomous Regions, which also served as input in the creation of the Regional
Strategy of Sustainable Development.

The ABC map was redefined. Also, a historical analysis on vegetation cover changes (land use)
and biophysical characteristics of the entire Atlantic Coast was elaborate. Thus, it is a major
achievement because it represents useful technical tool for planning and monitoring with the
help of an updated technical- scientific instrument. However, this map shows that the agriculture
frontier advancements continue even inside protected areas.

Community planning represents the importance and major positive impact to the local level that
the project contributed to. Besides helping in facilitating an entire highly participative process a
combination of participation and capacity training in situ, as well as, training in service aimed at
60 local technicians, which also enriched and contributed in creating new skills within the
communities. In this context, eighty nine (89) Community Planning Programs were created that
help the communities with a management tool for socio-environmental and economical aspects
in orienting future investments in areas that are priorities. Moreover, those programs represent a
local development strategy, becoming the basis for obtaining financial assistance from other
donors towards the municipal and national governments.

Another important achievement was the creation and establishment of Regional Committees for
Planning in both Autonomous Regions. They were integrated by Council Representatives and
Regional Government, Mayor Offices, sectorial entities, universities, communities organizations
and civil society in general. This in turn functions as a forum with a special space for consultation
and facilitating society's participation allowing actors to analyze and evaluate policies, laws,
programs, projects, actions and options that strengthened multisectoral        organizations of both
Autonomous Regions aimed at the socio-economic, environmental and cultural development,
improving analysis capacities, providing answers and solutions to decision makers towards the
regional human development and that of municipalities.

The Regional Environmental Information System (SIAR) & Regional Monitoring were among the


                                                  - 39 -

first indicators on decentralization that ABC Project supported. Also, an interinstitutional
agreement was reached & signed between MARENA and the Caribbean Coast University of
Nicaragua (URACCAN) in Bluefields and Puerto Cabezas. Besides, designated key actors
representing these institutions established with members of the National System of
Environmental Information (SINIA) a strategic working agenda facilitated by ABC Project that in a
short term would create an organized administrative structure that includes the majority of key
actors involved in biodiversity monitoring in the Caribbean Coast. Information regarding the
design and creation of distribution of data may be obtained in the SIAR web page (www.siar.org
).

A significant result was that of designing the decentralized Environmental Regional Monitoring of
the Caribbean Coast of Nicaragua, supported by the signed agreement between local
universities (URACCAN & BICU), FADCANIC and MARENA-ABC. In addition, ABC supported
the functioning of an environmental monitoring consensus processes like that of the
interinstitutional agreements that aided in accepting the environmental regional monitoring of the
Atlantic Coast of Nicaragua.


2.3 COMPONENT III: Biodiversity Prioritized Areas
This component was designed to contribute in the long term to the biological sustainability of the
ABC. Its goal was subordinated to the conservation of big areas of pristine or intact habitat
connected for corridors relatively very well conserved. The main focuses of this component were:
a) to strengthen the management and protection capabilities of the areas legally declared as
Protected Areas inside the context of decentralization of the administration of Protected Areas of
the Atlantic Regions, b) to promote the conservation and protection of the biodiversity outside of
the legally Protected Areas, influencing the characteristics of the land use to a better
management practices


2.3.1 RESULTS AND PRODUCTS: Biodiversity Prioritized Areas
General Department of Protected Areas in MARENA was supported with technical staff
responsible for coordinating the process of administration of protected areas in both RAAN &
RAAS within the methodology framework of ABC. In addition, the work plan for park guards was
designed and supported in MARENA- RAAS, along with basic equipment and uniforms. Also,
through constant capacity training they elevated their levels of knowledge in both theory &
practical tools on protected areas administration.

Physical infrastructures were built in MARENA Delegation in Puerto Cabezas (219 mts2), a
multiuse building for Waspám (570 mts2), Regional Information System Office in Bluefields (179
m2), and the refurbishing of Protected Areas Administrations office in Bluefields, Capacity
Training & Library Center in Puerto Cabezas and five (5) Park guard houses, the refurbishing of
the Multiuse Building in Waspám, Regional Delegation of MARENA.

It is worthy of mentioning that ABC Project supported MARENA´S Minister in lobbing to other key
Ministries in approving the National Environmental Fund (FNA) and its regulation, which was
approved through the October 15th/ 2001 Decree published in the official newspaper called La
Gaceta ­ Diario Oficial. The FNA is a financial mechanism for capturing and allocating financial
funds destined for environmental management mentioned in the National law of the Environment
(1996) functioning ever since contributing to institutional developments for environmental



                                                - 40 -

management in Nicaragua.

Through a highly participative process the Territorial Planning Proposal for Waspám Municipality
was drafted along with Policies & Laws frame work for programs and related projects. On the
other hand, capacity training was supported for local counterparts in RAAN & RAAS. The
Waspám Mayor office officially approved the Strategy Plan, which is now a management tool for
guiding programs in the municipality being a major achievement of ABC in RAAN.

Current analysis of Cayos Miskitos, Cerro Silva, Wawasháng, Waspám and priority communities
were created. In addition, a participative process was held with key actors as to establish the
protected areas limits. At the same time, management plans, execution schemes on those plans,
co-management proposals database, communities development plans for each protected area,
options and /or alternatives were validated. In addition, conservation status on connectivity
between Wawasháng and Cerro Silva, biodiversity assessments (ecosystems, vegetation
formations and wildlife presence), as well as, socio- economical and cultural values aimed at
conservation were evaluated.

It is worthy mentioning that ABC project contributed by providing support to the Autonomous
Governments on the creation of Natural Resources Secretariats (SERENA). Specifically for
RAAS, funds were facilitated to strengthen the new office until reaching its first operations. The
funds were in small quantities, but qualitatively were of significance since SERENA offices work
in efforts to capture funds and to continue ABC project, as well as to carry out decentralization of
administration tasks on behalf of protected areas with biodiversity components.

As a result of the communities development plans elaboration, a total, of 22 small projects of
conservation and sustainable development of natural resources were executed. 9 of those, were
carried out in the Southern Atlantic Autonomous Region (RAAS) and 13 ones in the Northern
Atlantic Autonomous Region (RAAN). In the same context, 64 communities were benefited, 40
located in RAAS and 24 in RAAN. The objectives were focused on production systems
strengthening, agro forestry system, rural tourism, fishing, biodiversity conservation, and
municipality operations strengthening, specifically public environmental health. Also, as a result
of those efforts on small projects implementations, several families raised their standard of living
around core zones of protected areas, buffer zones, and interconnection areas; implementing
sustainable production practices related to biodiversity conservation. In addition, capacity training
was provided communities' personnel in the introduction of environmentally friendly technologies
for agriculture production.

A major significant result was that of getting local nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) deeply
involved in co-management of the small projects. In order to achieve that level of involvement, it
was necessary to strengthen NGOs in technical and financial execution, creating better
opportunities to manage funds in an efficient manner that may be captured from donors that
require the same or higher control mechanisms on their contributions.




                                                 - 41 -

A relevant and significant result was that of creating the Regional Committees of small projects
for both Autonomous Regions, which have the mandate to provide follow- up revisions and
decisions, making on projects executions. Besides, these entities are also taken into
consideration as actors in follow-up tasks and executions of yet additional investments programs
for both regions. For instance, the Socio-Environment & Forestry Development Program (POSAF
Fase II) funded by the IDB, is a concrete example of the above.



2.4 COMPONENT IV: Indigenous Communities Development
The objective of this component was to guide the promotion and development capacities of the
indigenous communities, to focus in its fundamental problems related with the land tenure, and
promoting the sustainable management of their natural resources. In the process, the
communities were strengthened to a better system of organization respecting other traditional
forms of organization. Particularly through this component, there were promoted actions focused
on the security of the land, supporting the regional governments to design and adopt procedures
for the regularization of the land tenure of the indigenous communities.


2.4.1 RESULTS AND PRODUCTS: Indigenous Communities Development
The MARENA- ABC project has promoted a series of integration policies for indigenous people
into the national regulation systems, all of them aimed at recognizing and respecting territorial
rights. The Political Constitution of 1987 and Autonomous Regional Atlantic law opened
significant opportunities and new chances for these people to achieved complete control on land
rights and natural resources management. Later in 1995, the constitutional reform enriched even
further constitutional norms that deal with indigenous matters by introducing new concepts such
as "ethnic, social, political pluralism for indigenous people", terms that are now accepted in many
countries and that have brought new sense to better ethnical groups treatment.

In this context, MARENA-ABC project support in major way the consultation and validation
process for the Indigenous Communities Territorial Demarcation Law, right form the Bill phase in
the Caribbean Coast and BOSAWAS. The Executive Branch introduced it in October 1998 and
by 2000 the Bill was drafted on both regions RAAN & RAAS known as "Law on the Communal
Property Regime of Indigenous People & Ethnical Communities of the Atlantic Coast, Bocay,
Coco, Indio and Maiz rivers".

In addition, ABC supported Regional Governments (RAAN & RAAS) in the process of
Demarcation of Indigenous Lands, through workshops with Regional Councils, Indigenous
Communities, drafting institutional normative and administrative procedures in the Demarcation
and Land Title for Indigenous territories. Also, organization and operational support was provided
to the National Commission for Demarcation and Title (CONADETI) and to the Intersectorial
Commission of Demarcation and Title (CIDT) within the context of the Law 445 framework "Law
on Communal Property Regime of Indigenous People & Ethnical Communities of the Caribbean
Coast, Bocay, Coco, Indio and Maiz rivers". Also, several ordinary and extraordinary meetings
were held for the CIDT in RAAN and RAAS, in order to analyze the Demarcation request
solicited by Indigenous Communities. In addition cartographic information and database on
geographical information system for indigenous people of both RAAN and RAAS were created.
Also, a database bank updated for advances on land demarcation and title land issues for RAAN
& RAAS, were facilitated. During these processes, technical assistance by ABC was given to
locals in creating the structure for community participation on management of the Cayos Miskitos



                                                   - 42 -

natural reserve in RAAN. Financial aid was also given to this process. In this context, technical
maps for RAAN & RAAS were elaborated. With all this support the local communities started
their own proposal for co-management, local constitutional organization draft, functions manual
and responsibilities of its members.

It is also worthy of mentioning that ABC Project supported in obtaining the legal status of 24
indigenous organizations in RAAN and 5 organizations in RAAS, all with capacity trainings in
social, administrative, technical, financial, land tenure legalization, natural resources
management and biodiversity conservation aspects. This process was supported with training in
topics such as; environmental and communities related conflicts solutions, indigenous leadership
(community oriented), autonomous rights, basic indigenous rights, demarcation and land title
issues according to Law 445, sustainable management of natural resources belonging to the
communities (policies and environmental laws); bookkeeping, management and administration of
natural resources of indigenous communities according to Law 445, women rights issues,
community organizations with gender issues and sound economical management of household
backyards.

In conclusion, the local organizations, indigenous communities and ethnical groups are better
trained in managing natural resources and a healthy environment, as well as contributing in the
creation of a proposal on territorial land planning of the autonomous regions with an updated
modern information on studies and diagnostic evaluations aimed at planning & development of
local regions.


2.5 COMPONENT V: Coordinating Project Office

The focal point of this component was to strengthen the administrative and financial issues for
the effective execution of the project. The results were satisfactory since the execution of the
operative plan was achieved; and during the process, the internal and external factors that
impacted during its execution, were minimized and some practical solution to solve the problems
were achieved. The training process to the personal of both regions about administrative and
technical decentralization of the ABC project, according with the procedures of the World Bank
and Nicaragua's government, were another key factor of great relevance.

2.5.1 RESULTS AND PRODUCTS: Coordinating Project Office
Stemming from the disaster inflicted by hurricane Mitch in October 1998 an extra component was
added, that is the Emergency Assistance Program aimed at alleviating damages caused by
hurricane Mitch in the Caribbean Region. The program consisted of restoring, reactivating,
improving and transforming the socioeconomic infrastructure destroyed and/or damaged by the
hurricane. With that objective in mind, the Central Government of Nicaragua in agreement with
the World Bank reassigned to MARENA $ 1.0 million USD from the funds originally destined to
that component, which benefited 90 communities of indigenous people and farmers.

The ABC Project actively supported with technical assistance, the creation and fund raising of
the Nicaragua/Honduras Corazón Transboundary Biosphere Reserve. With those efforts it was
achieved the establishment of a technical group in coordinating tasks and financial aid through
the World Bank for the PDF A. On the other hand, the ABC project has actively participated in
getting UNESCO to consolidate and approve such a project (Nicaragua/Honduras Corazón
Transboundary Biosphere Reserve Project). The elaboration of that project has enhanced the



                                               - 43 -

local capacities in biodiversity management and natural resources, which in turn also contributes
to the sustainable development on both countries and to the long-term sustainability

On the other hand, personnel in both regions were trained in administrative procedures and
accompanied them also in decentralization techniques of the ABC project.


3. ASSESSMENT OF THE DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE, THE DESIGN AND
QUALITY OF INITIAL STAGE
The global environmental objective was to promote in a long term, the integration of a biological
corridor in key areas of the Caribbean of Nicaragua, conserving the valued global areas of the
biodiversity. The Caribbean Coast of Nicaragua is biologically an extremely rich area in
ecological regions and ecosystems of global importance; it is a critical link to the Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor in Central America. It took in consideration the strategy of the country, and
specifically the necessities of the Caribbean Coast, as well as the World Bank strategy to the
establishment of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor. The ABC contributed to the development
of a framework of regional planning for the conservation and biodiversity management, at the
same time contributed to the development policies, planning strategies tools and monitoring, to
strengthen the regional, local governments and local organizations to manage the natural
resources and the biodiversity.

The Atlantic Biological Corridor Project, contributed to the central government, regional
governments, local organizations and communities acquired knowledge and practical tools, of
environmental management, to develop a strategic planning process that guided them in a
medium term to achieve sustainable development. In addition, the ABC contributed to those less
fortunate families of the indigenous communities, in order to increase their incomes and at the
same time protect the environment through the execution of natural resources small projects.
However, although all these efforts, the indicators of diminishing or reverting the deforestation
rate especially in the prioritized areas of biodiversity (protected areas) was partially achieved.
This was because the historical analysis of changes in the land covering demonstrates that the
deforestation rate and the agricultural frontier advancement have been intensified. This is
because of the peace process that started in the nineties; the national government gave land
parcels to the people of the former army around and inside the protected areas. This created
developing agricultural poles, so that there were ideal conditions for bigger population to settled
up in legally or illegally. On the other hand, because of the economic crisis of the country, the
national and regional government didn't have enough funds for real protection of those areas.

The original design of the project didn't suffer a substantial revision, neither in their objectives
nor on the proposed results, that was a revision only at the level of indicators, which had certain
adjustments as product of the medium term evaluation, where it was concluded that some of
them had been advanced less than was expected in terms to achieve a solid framework to reach
the objectives of the project. This situation was basically because 28% of the funds project were
conditioned for the approval of the law that regulates the regime of land property of the
indigenous communities, and to the approval and operation of the Environmental National Fund
(FNA). The Nicaraguan Government did not achieve both situations on time, so this created an
obstacle for the execution of some activities. These factors were outside of the control of the
project and of MARENA itself.

Due to the tardiness in the execution of the preconditions made by the World Bank to the
Nicaragua Government, it was necessary to request an extension of the closing date of the


                                                - 44 -

project. In order to implement the III and IV components, there was a modification especially to
the established preconditions (the agreement was to execute the small subprojects without the
fully operational status of the Environment National Fund). It can be inferred that although
MARENA possessed good execution capacity, the established preconditions didn't depend
entirely on MARENA, so that there was some tardiness in reaching some of the defined goals.

The execution quality of the project in the beginning of the implementation had a series of
restrictive aspects, mainly because of the project centralization in Managua coordinating office,
and lack of qualified personnel in both Autonomous Atlantic Regions. In addition, the political
conditions of both regional governments delayed an effective appropriation. Also the continued
changes of local authorities, made certain delays in some processes because it was necessary
to repeat many times to the administrative and technical governmental staff the ABC concept
and its strategy, limiting the executing capacity of the project coordinating office. However in the
last three years of execution of the project, due to a crucial process of decentralization, carried
out by the project coordinating office, the execution level increased. The training plan to the local
personnel generated great capacity building. Thus, it is considered 90% in the achievement of
the project results and indicators.


4. - SUSTAINABILITY
The planning instruments for regional, municipal and local development that were created and
made official by the ABC project have started to be applied. Probably in the future it will
influence in getting a major improvement in regional management with an imprinting of
environmental emphasis on political decisions, both regional as well as local. The positive impact
and its social sustainability will be appreciated in the medium term as the proper planning carries
on by the political decision makers that would contribute to poverty alleviation and turn to
diminish one of he major focus of pressure on natural resources and environment at the
Caribbean Coast of Nicaragua.

The National Environmental Fund approval, as a tool that contribute to channeling resources will
allow once it functions, that financial funds coming from different sources aimed at
environmental management of Nicaragua will earmark money in a more efficient way in the
Environmental Policy of Nicaragua, thus avoiding duplication of efforts and contradictions
between the Environmental Policy of Nicaragua and actions coming from different projects and
institutions.

Having included the Regional Development Plans of RAAN & RAAS into the National Strategy
on Development established by the Government of Nicaragua with a long term vision,
contributes to the proper use of development guidelines on natural resources management in
the Caribbean Region and that in turn be considered as priorities through conservation clusters
and sustainable use.

Capacity training generated by ABC has contributed in forming a great number of local
indigenous technical staff, now in possession of powerful tools for conservation and sustainable
management of biodiversity. On the other hand, Law 445 and the demarcation and land title
issues supported by ABC that are contributing to indigenous people have assured theirs rights
on ancestral land and consolidating the land tenure.

The management plans approved by local authorities (Councils & Local Commissions) serve as



                                                  - 45 -

the strategic base for planning in a correct way to manage of natural resources, promoting
conservation on vast areas of the corridor and also allowing proper orientation to future
investors.

The implementation of 22 small projects on strengthening productive systems, agro forestry
systems, community- based tourism, fishing and biodiversity conservation, have strengthened
the productive base and natural resources conservation in local communities having a strong
positive impact on permanent incomes to the recipient communities, which contributes to
diminishing the destruction of natural resources.

The Environmental monitoring network, the SIAR and the ABC monitoring plan have created a
sustainable process based on the basic local institutions that carry that job such as the
universities. The information created by the ABC has had important results in strategic areas,
since those tools have been used in establishing the municipal development plans, investments
plans, regional and local plans. Besides several communities plans have been taken into
consideration and financed by other organizations contributing to the ABC project consolidation.

The institutionalization of strategic macro guidelines established by the ABC Project, added to
the technical staff that worked for ABC, now working in the Regional Governments Offices,
contributes to the continuation of main actions on conservation under the Biological Corridor
concept.




                                               - 46 -

ANNEX I: ACRONYMS

ABC                 Atlantic Biological Corridor
BICU                Bluefields Indian Caribbean University
CCAD                Central American Environment and Development Commission
CONADETI            National Commission of Title and Demarcation
CIDT                Commission Intersectorial of Demarcation and Title
DGAP                General Direction of Protected areas
INAFOR              National Forest Institute
FADCANIC            Foundation for the Development of the Atlantic Coast of
Nicaragua
FNA                 National Environment Fund
GEF                 Global Environment Facility
MARENA                     Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources
MBC                 Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
NDF                 Nordic Development Fund
NGO                 Nongovernment Organization
PRODEP              Property Land Management Project
RAAN                North Atlantic Autonomous Region
RAAS                South Atlantic Autonomous Region
SIAR                National Environment Information System
SINAP               National System of Protected Areas
SINIA               National System of Environmental Information




                                     - 47 -

Additional Annex 9. Map A1 - Natural Habitats of Nicaragua (IBRD-28754)




                                       - 48 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 28754

                             87                                     86                                  85                                                 84                                         83

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NICARAGUA
15                                                                                                                                                                                                                15         ATLANTIC BIOLOGICAL

                                                                                                                                                                                              Wani                        CORRIDOR PROJECT (GEF)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NATURAL HABITATS OF NICARAGUA
                                                                                                                                                          (RíoSegovia)                       Lagoon


                                                                                                                                                 Río Coco
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cayos

                                     H O N D U R A S                                                                                                                                                     Miskitos
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Islands                            MID ALTITUDE PINE/OAK FOREST

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TROPICAL BROADLEAF FOREST

                                                                                                                      NORTHERN AUTONOMOUS
                                                                                                                                        Río                                                                                                 LOW ALTITUDE PINE SAVANNAH

                                                                                                                                          ATLANTIC
                                                                                                                                             Wawa                                             Pahara                                        COASTAL WETLANDS
                                                                                                                                                                                              Lagoon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONVERTED HABITATS
                                                                                                                                            REGION                                       PUERTO CABEZAS

14                                                                                    Bocay                                                                                                                       14
                                                                                                                                             (RAAN)                                                                                        PAVED ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                       Karata
                                   To Tegucigalpa                                  JINOTEGA                                                                                           Lagoon                                               UNPAVED ROADS
                                                                                   Río
                                                             NUEVA                                                                            Río                                                                                          DEPARTMENT CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                           SEGOVIA                                                                                    Bambana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
                                             OCTOCAL                                                                                                                                 Wounta
                                                                                                                                                                                     Lagoon                                                DEPARTMENT OR AUTONOMOUS
                                            SOMOTO                                                                                                                                                                                         REGION BOUNDARIES
                             To                    MADRIZ
                           Choluteca                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                        Río                                                                                                                                AGGRESSIVE AGRICULTURAL FRONTIERS



   Gulf of           To
                   Choluteca                    ESTELÍ                                                     Prinzapolca
   Fonseca                                                                                                              Río
                                                   ESTELÍ             JINOTEGA                                             Grande                                                       C a r i b b e a n
                                                                                                                                 deMatagalpa
                                                                                                                                                                                                 S e a
13                                                                                                                                                                                                                13
                                                                         MATAGALPA Río  Tuma

                CHINANDEGA                                                  MATAGALPA                                                      Río   Kurinwás
                                                                                                                               SOUTHERN
                                               LEÓN                                                                        AUTONOMOUS
           CHINANDEGA
                                                                                  BOACO                                          ATLANTIC

                                      LÉON                                        BOACO                                           REGION
                                                       Lake                                                                        (RAAS)                                              Perlas
                                                    Managua                                           Río      Siquia                                                                  Lagoon

                                                         MANAGUA                             CHONTALES                                                                                                                      0        20            40            60            80           100
                                                 MANAGUA
                                                                  YA              JUIGALPA                                                                                                                                                         KILOMETERS

12                                                                 MASAYA                                                           Río                                   BLUEFIELDS                              12

                                                               MASA                                Río     Mico                         Escondido
                                                                        GRANADA                                                                                            Bluefields                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                             Bay                                              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                       JINOTEPE
                                                       CARAZO       GRANADA                                                                                                                                                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


                                                                                                                       RIO                           PuntaGorda                                                                90                     86                   82                    78
               PACIFIC                                                                                                                           Rio
                                                                                             Lake                     SAN                                                                                              18                                                                             18

                                                               RIVAS                                                                                                                                                                 BELIZE
               OCEAN                                                                                                                                                                                                 MEXICO
                                                                      RIVAS                Nicaragua                  JUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AT L A N T I C
                                                                                                                                                                        Punta                                            GUATEMALA         HONDURAS                               O C E A N
                                                                                                                                                                       Gorda
                                                                                                    SAN CARLOS                                                           Bay                                           14                                                                             14

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EL              NICARAGUA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SALVADOR

11                                                                                                                                                                                                                11


                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10    PA C I F I C                    COSTA RICA              PANAMA           10

                                                                                                C O S TA R I C A                                   Río
                                                                                                                                                                 San  Juan                                                   O C E A N


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COLOMBIA
                           87                                      86                                 85                                                  84                                          83                       90                     86                   82


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FEBRUARY 2006

Additional Annex 10. Map A2 - Atlantic Biological Corridor Project (IBRD-28756)




                                         - 49 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 28756

                                     87                                             86                                         85                                                84                                           83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NICARAGUA
15   The Atlantic Biological Corridor (ABC) of Nicaragua is a mosaic of natural habitats on the                                                                                                                                           15
     Atlantic Slope linking up different ecosystems and forming part of the larger Mesoamerican                                                                                                                                                      ATLANTIC BIOLOGICAL
     Biological Corridor which connects habitats and animal and plant populations from Mexico                                                                                                                          LAGUNA

     to Colombia. The ABC is defined by actual and recommended land use patterns. It is                                                                                                                             WANI AREA                     CORRIDOR PROJECT (GEF)
     composed of: (a) nucleii (protected areas and unprotected areas of high biodiversity value;                                                                                                                    Wani

     shown in dark green and in red hatching respectively) which should receive the highest                                                                                                                        Lagoon

     level of protection; (b) interconnections between the nucleii (shown in green hatching)                                                                                    (RíoSegovia)
     which are most appropriate for activities of very low impact on biodiversity; and (c)                                                                                 Coco                                                   Cayos
     surrounding areas of natural habitat (light green) which are suitable for sustainable use of                                                                      Río
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Miskitos
     biodiversity.                                                                                                                                                            TRONQUERA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Islands

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROTECTED AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CAYOS
                                     H O N D U R A S                                                                                                           Río                                                               MISKITOS                           UNPROTECTED AREAS:
                                                                                                                           BOSAWAS                                  Wawa                                                Pahara                                        HIGH BIODIVERSITY VALUE AREAS
                                                                                                                                                             CERRO COLA                                                 Lagoon
                                                                                                                                                             BLANCA                                                                                                   INTERCONNECTIONS (VERY LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                          YULU                PUERTO CABEZAS                                          IMPACT HUMAN USE)

14                                                                                                       Bocay                                                                                                                            14
                                                                                                                                                                                       KLIGNA                                                                         NATURAL HABITATS (LOW IMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                            LAGUNA
                                                                                                                                                          CERRO BANA                                                                                                  HUMAN USE)
                                           To Tegucigalpa                                                                                                                                                   YULU-KARATA
                                                                                                      Río                                                 CRUZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Karata Lagoon
                                                                                                                                                                    Río                                                                                            PAVED ROADS
                                                                                                                               SASLAYA                                            BALAKU

                                                             OCTOCAL                                                                                                                                                                                               UNPAVED ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                              Bambana
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Wounta                                                 DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
                                                                                                    KILAMBE                                                                                                 Lagoon
                                                    SOMOTO                                                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                      To                                                                                                                ALAMIKAMBA                LIMBAIKA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SELECTED MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
                                   Choluteca                                                                                   Río                                                                                                                                 DEPARTMENT OR AUTONOMOUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REGION BOUNDARIES

                             To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
   Gulf of                Choluteca                                                                                               Prinzapolca                                          MAKANTACA


   Fonseca                                                                                         PEÑAS
                                                                                JINOTEGA           BLANCAS                                     Río                                                           C a r i b b e a n
                                                                     ESTELÍ                                                                       GrandedeMatagalpa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S e a
13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13
                                                                                         MATAGALPA                                                                                   KARAWALA

                                                                                           Río Tuma                                                               Río  Kurinwás




                                                                                                                                                                                    CERRO
                                                                                                                                                                                 WAWASHAN
             CHINANDEGA



                                              LÉON                                                   BOACO

                                                                Lake                                                                                                                                          Perlas
                                                             Managua                                                           Río     Siquia                                                                Lagoon


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0        20            40            60            80           100
                                                         MANAGUA
                                                                                                     JUIGALPA                                                                                                                                                              KILOMETERS

12                                                                                MASAYA                                                                   Río                                  BLUEFIELDS                                12
                                                                                                                            Río       Mico                     Escondido
                                                                                         GRANADA                                                                                                 Bluefields                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bay                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                JINOTEPE                                                                                                                                                                              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                    CERRO                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                    SILVA


                                                                                                                                                                        RioPuntaGorda                                                                  90                     86                   82                    78
                    PACIFIC                                                                                        Lake                                                                                                                        18                                                                             18

                                                                                                                                                                           RIO INDIO                                                                         BELIZE
                   OCEAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MEXICO
                                                                                      RIVAS                   Nicaragua                                                       MAIZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AT L A N T I C
                                                                                                                                                                                              Punta                                              GUATEMALA         HONDURAS                               O C E A N
                                                                                                               ARCHIIPIELAGO                                                                 Gorda
                                                                                                              DE SOLENTINAME                                                                                                                   14                                                                             14
                                                                                                                                                 SAN CARLOS                                    Bay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EL              NICARAGUA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SALVADOR

11                                                                                                                                 LOS GUATUZOS                                                                                           11

                                                                                                                                                                              RIO INDIO
                                                                                                                                                                                 MAIZ                                                          10    PA C I F I C                    COSTA RICA              PANAMA           10

                                                                                                                       C O S TA R I C A                                  Río
                                                                                                                                                                                       San  Juan                                                     O C E A N


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COLOMBIA
                                  87                                              86                                         85                                                 84                                            83                       90                     86                   82

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FEBRUARY 2006

- 50 -

