Report No. 936-80  FILE  COpy                                       12 K 
Appraisal of
Ingavi Rural Development Project
Bolivia                                                                                     RET
February 5, 1976                                                                       R;EPORTS    *D (
Projects Department                                                                            WITHIN
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office                                                ONE                        I
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRECY EQUIVALENTS
US$1         =    $b 20.00
$b 1.00      =    US$0.O;5
$b 1 million =    US$50,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1. hectare (ha)                =   10,000 m2 - 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)               =   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)       -   0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                    2.20 pounds
1,000 kilograms = 1 metric ton=   0.98 long ton
1 liter (1)                    =   0.26 gallons (US)
= 0.22 gallons (Imperial)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAB        - Agricultural Bank of Bolivia
BC         -  Central Bank
BPC        - Bolivian Power Company
CCERDEPAZ   - Department of La Paz Development Corporation
DESEC      -  Center for Social and Economic Development
GEOBOL     - Geological Survey of Bolivia
MACA       - Ministry of Peasant Affairs and Agriculture
MPSSP      -  Ministry of Social Security and Public Health
PIL        -  Industrialized Milk Plant
SNC        - National Roads Service
SNDC       - National Community Development Service
GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............................  i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION ..........................................                  1
II.    BACKGROUND ............................................                  1
A.   General .....................             , ................        1
B.    Rural Sector .....................................                 2
C.   Project Area .......           ..............................       4
III.  THE PROJECT .........................                                       5
A.   Brief Description ...................... ....                       5
B.    Detailed Features ................................                 6
C.    Cost Estimates  ...................................               10
D.    Financing ..........          ..............................      11
E.    Procurement  ........         ..............................      12
F.    Disbursement ........           .............................     13
G.    Organization and Management  ......................               13
H.    Accounts and Auditing ......I            ......................   17
IV.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS                 17
V.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................                 20
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....               .............    23
SCHEDULE A - Project Unit Guidelines
SCHEDULE B - Consultants Terms of Reference
SCHEDULE C - Lending Terms and Conditions
SCHEDULE D - Implementation Schedule
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal team which visited
Bolivia in May 1975. Members of the team were Messrs. G. Luhman, and F. Lucca
(LCPA1), W. Cuddihy and B. Kanchanalak (AGPOP), and C. Chisholm, W. Farnsworth,
and J. Ticas (consultants).
This doci4ment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents mny not othcrwise be disckbsed writhout World Batnk authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1. Agriculture and Livestock Development
Tables    1 to  8 - Model 1:  Irrigated Development on Communally-
Operated Land
Tables    9 to 15 - Model 2:  Rainfed Development on Communally-Operated
Land
Tables   16 to 18 - Model 3:  Rainfed Development on Group of Individual
Farms
Tables   19 to 21 - Model 4:  Marketing Development
2. Irrigation System
Table 1 - Project Water Requirement Assessment
Table 2 - Unit Investment and Current Cash
Table 3 - Investment and Current Cash
3. Credit System
4. Technical Services
Table 1 - Project Usnit Organization
Table 2 - Investment Cash Cost
5. Road System
Table 1 - Project Roads
Table 2 - Investment and Current Cash Costs
6. Health System
Table 1 - Investment Cash Cost
7. Water and Waste System
Table 1 - Well and Pit Privy Unit Investment Cash Costs
Table 2 - Investment and Current Cash Costs
8. Investment Cost Phasing
9. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10. Economic Analyses
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return
MAP



BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a rural development project for which a Bank
loan of US$9.5 million equivalent is proposed. The project would cover an
area of about 800 km2, approximately 20 km southeast of La Paz. About 4,000
small farm families would benefit from on-farm investment (deep well irriga-
tion systems, tractors, improved pasture and livestock facilities, and storage
facilities), incremental production credit (for improved seeds, fertilizer,
insecticides, and services), and technical assistance financed under the
project, while most of the 10,000 families in the project area would benefit
from improved roads (85 km), health facilities (including six health posts),
and drinking water and waste facilities (4,000 shallow wells and 3,000 pit
privies, respectively). The Project Unit, a semi-autonomous agency under the
aegis of the Ministry of Peasant Affairs and Agriculture would implement the
project. The Government would be the Borrower and would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
ii.       The Bank Group has granted two loans and 10 credits to Bolivia for
US$55.5 million and US$60.3 million equivalent, respectively. The largest
portion of the financing, 55%, has been for transportation, with 25% for power,
15% for agriculture, and 5% for industry. Financing for agriculture has
consisted of four credits: three for livestock, totalling US$10.2 million
equivalent and one for agricultural credit of US$7.5 million equivalent. Some
difficulty had been experienced in the execution of the Third Livestock Project
(261-BO), but the situation has improved and the credit probably will be dis-
bursed on schedule. Execution of the other project has been reasonably satis-
factory.
iii.      Bolivia's gross domestic product (GDP) has increased at 6% per
year since 1971, but per capita income at US$302 (1974) is still among the
lowest in the hemisphere. Moreover, the major stimulus to growth has been
in the modern sector: agricultural production for export and hydrocarbon
extraction and refining. Distribution of the income is very skewed, with
the lowest 40% of the population receiving only 13% of national income.
This poorest segment consists largely of small farmers and agricultural
laborers engaged in subsistence agriculture in the altiplano. The Govern-
ment recently has taken measures to improve the economic performance of the
country, but substantial external assistance will be required to support its
efforts.
iv.       The farmers in the project area are largely representative of
producers throughout the altiplano. They have an average of 6 ha each on
which they plant potatoes for home consumption and sale and forage crops
(barley and oats), which are fed to a few cows and some sheep. The land is
tilled with steel-pointed wooden plows drawn by oxen and is fertilized with
animal manure. The use of improved seeds, chemical fertilizers, and insecti-
cides is limited. The average family income is about US$345, of which about



- ii -
US$75 is in cash. Most of the previous efforts to develop the altiplano have
been based on a sectoral approach and have been mostly unsuccessful. The pro-
posed project seeks to combine substantial increases in yields and income (which
would more than double) with investments in productive infrastructure (roads
and storage facilities) and also investments in health, drinking water, and
waste facilities that would have a direct impact on the quality of life of the
target population. In addition, efforts would be directed toward groups of
farmers rather than individuals. This integrated approach, based on group
activities, is expected to achieve positive results, which eluded previous
efforts.
v.        Total cost of the project would be about US$12.9 million equivalent
of which the Bank would finance US$9.5 million, or 74%; Government, US$3.3
million or 25%; and beneficiaries, US$0.1 million, or 1%. In addition to the
financial contribution, beneficiaries would make a substantial labor contri-
bution valued at US$3.4 million. Bank financing would cover the foreign
exchange costs (US$5.1 million, or 40% of project cost) and 56% of the local
currency costs (US$4.4 million, or 34% of project cost). The consultant
services of the technical services component of the project (US$0.9 million)
were originally to be financed by UNDP and the Government; however, due to
UNDP's recent financial difficulties, the consultant services would now be
financed jointly by the Bank (US$0.5 million) and the Government (US$0.4
million). Should UNDP funds for financing consultant services become available
during the 1977-80 period, then the corresponding amounts in the Bank loan
would be cancelled.
vi.       The Project Unit would have direct responsibility for the on-farm
investment and working capital components of the project. It would provide
technical assistance to farmer groups on agriculture and livestock practices,
operation and maintenance of facilities, and preparation and implementation
of farm development plans. It would also grant subloans to farmer groups in
support of the farm development plans in cooperation with the Agricultural
Bank (BAB) acting as financial agent, responsible for processing loan appli-
cations and disbursing funds on the recommendation of the Project Unit. The
National Roads Service (SNC) would implement the roads component and the
Ministry of Social Security and Public Health (MPSSP), the health, drinking
water, and waste components, under agreements with the Project Unit.
vii.      Procurement of most farm inputs would be made by farmer groups
through normal commercial channels because the size and timing of individual
purchases would not be suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB).
However, the tractors would be purchased through local competitive bidding,
and the irrigation equipment and materials would be purchased through inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance with Bank guidelines.
The irrigation wells would be installed by the Geological Survey of Bolivia
(GEOBOL) under the supervision of the Project Unit. Roads would be con-
structed by SNC and water supply wells and privies by MPSSP by force account
with the assistance of project beneficiaries. Construction of simple adobe
buildings and other facilities would be undertaken by project beneficiaries
under the supervision of the National Community Development Service (SNDC).



- iii -
viii.     The financial rate of return for farmers has been estimated to vary
from 20 to 200%, while the economic rate of return to the country would be
about 15%.
ix.       During negotiations appropriate assurances were obtained that provide
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$9.5 million for 25 years, including a
seven-year grace period.






BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Bolivia has requested a Bank loan to help finance
a rural development project in the altiplano near La Paz which would have a
substantial impact on the income and standard of living of the small farmlers
in the project area and serve as a model for other rural development efforts
in the altiplano. The proposed project was prepared by the Government with
the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme.
1.02      To date the Bank has made two loans and IDA has granted 10 credits
to Bolivia for totals of US$55.5 million and US$60.3 million equivalent, net
of cancellations, respectively. The largest portion of the financing, 55%,
has been for transportation, with 25% for power, 15% for agriculture, and 5%
for industry. Financing for agriculture has consisted of four credits: three
for livestock, totalling US$10.2 million equivalent, and one for agricultural
credit of US$7.5 million equivalent. Some difficulty had been experienced in
the execution of the Third Livestock Project (261-BO), but the situation has
improved and the credit probably will be disbursed on schedule. Execution
of the other projects has been reasonably satisfactory.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Bolivia's economic and financial posture has improved somewhat during
the last four years. Real GDP increased by 6% annually during 1971-73, compared
with a 3.4% average for the 1968-70 period. Following a similar trend, per
capita GNP increased from US$197 in 1973 to US$302 in 1974; however, it
remains one of the lowest in the hemisphere. Although GDP growth declined to
about 5% in 1974, significant gains in terms of trade resulting from rising
petroleum and mineral prices have contributed to the expansion of consumption
and investment and to substantial improvement in public finances and balance
of payments. This favorable trend in the economy has, however, been accompanied
by lagging growth rates in traditional activities such as domestic agriculture,
mining, and manufacturing of consumer goods; low employment growth; inadequate
infrastructure; and high incidence of poverty in rural areas.
2.02      In 1975, Bolivia's population was estimated to be 5.5 million, 70%
of which lives in rural areas. The altiplano and the valleys, which jointly
account for about 30% of the national territory, contain about 84% of the
rural population. At the current annual rate of population growth (2.7%) it
is expected that, by 1980, population will rise to 6.5 million, with rural
areas accounting for 68%. The labor force in 1974 was 2.5 million, with the



-2-
annual rate of increase exceeding employment growth. Migration from rural
areas is occurring at an increasing rate, but the limited capacity of the
non-rural sector to absorb the rapid increase in labor resources argues for
vigorous policies to expand employment opportunities in the rural sector.
2.03      Income distribution remains skewed in Bolivia.  Disparity is
reflected in the fact that the lower 40% of the population account for only
13% of the total income, compared to the 36% of the national income enjoyed
by the top 5% of the population. The poorest segment consists largely of
small farmers and agricultural laborers engaged in subsistence agriculture
in the altiplano.
2.04      The Government is distinctly aware of the major obstacles to develop-
ment, and has consequently recently taken measures designed to improve the
economic performance of the country. While the Government has directed its
efforts towards mobilization of domestic resources and preparation of a devel-
opment program for Bolivia, the successful implementation of this program is
contingent upon the availability of substantial external assistance.
B. Rural Sector
2.05      Agriculture, which is the principal livelihood of the rural popula-
tion, accounts for 217% of GDP and 65% of total employment. The decline in
agriculture's share of GDP from 30% in 1962 to 21% in 1974 may be attributed
in part to the more rapid economic growth of non-agricultural sectors. The
rate of growth in agriculture during the 1968-74 period was estimated to be
3.9%, as compared to 4.8% for the rest of the economy. Agriculture's exports
in 1974, mainly cotton, coffee, sugar and beef, amounted to US$56 million, or
about 9% of the total export value. In addition to generating foreign ex-
change, agriculture provides about 70% of domestic agricultural and food
requirements. Food imports in 1973, mainly wheat, flour, fats, edible oils
and dairy products, accounted for about 80% of total agricultural imports of
US$42 million.
2.06      Bolivia's rural sector consists mainly of small farmers living
under subsistence conditions. The high incidence of poverty can be linked
directly to the small-farm sector which is plagued by low productivity, a
traditional technological base, underemployed resources, and a disproportion-
ately small share of the agricultural growth and development. Over 85% of the
small-farm population is concentrated in the relatively poor physical environ-
ment of the altiplano and the intermediate valleys, areas characterized by a
high man/land ratio. The small-farm sector produces about two-thirds of the
domestic food supply and provides some form of productive employment for about
65% of the rural inhabitants.
2.07      In contrast, the farmers and ranchers of the modern agricultural
subsector, which is confined to the Santa Cruz and Beni regions, have large
farm holdings and enjoy substantial financial support from central and local
governments as well as from the private sector. Modern techniques are used,
especially in the mechanized production of cotton and sugarcane in Santa Cruz.



-3 -
Mioreover, marketing arrangements, processing industries, and services are
better developed.
2.08      Regional imbalances appear to be pronounced in Bolivia's case,
largely because of the disparities in growth potentials, level and pattern
of agricultural development, and the extent to which each region has attracted
resources and governmental support. An inherent problem affecting agricul-
tural growth is the existence of a structural imbalance between population and
natural resources in Bolivia's three main geographic regions: (a) the cold,
dry and largely barren altiplano, which comprises 28% of the country's culti-
vated land and accounts for about 42% of the rural population while contri-
buting only 18% of the agricultural GDP; (b) the temperate and humid valleys,
which include 38% of the cultivated land, 42% of the rural population, and
34% of the agricultural GDP; and (c) the tropical and sub-tropical lowlands,
which have 35% of the cultivated land, 16% of the population, and 48% of the
agricultural GDP. Traditional agriculture is concentrated in the altiplano
and the intermediate valleys, while the rapidly developing crops (which
include cotton, sugarcane, rice and oilseeds) and beef production have been
developed spontaneously by private enterprise in the central and northern
lowlands, respectively.
2.09      Agricultural production is further deterred by stagnant technology
and low factor productivity, limited skilled manpower, inadequate factor and
product markets, and lack of access to agricultural credit, especially long-
term credit to finance agricultural infrastructure and agricultural inputs,
by a very large segment of producers. The problem is further compounded by
the lack of viable farmer organizations, adequate infrastructure, and support-
ing services. In addition, political and economic instability, lack of insti-
tutional coordination, and the absence of an integrated approach to rural
development have made it difficult to successfully assist the Government in
its efforts to develop agriculture, particularly in the altiplano.
2.10      Bolivia's efforts to ameliorate rural, social, and economic condi-
tions will be vastly influenced by economic dualism in the rural sector, i.e.,
large farm operators and a preponderance of small-scale farmers, each with
different needs and problems. There is evidence that productivity and the
living standards of the rural poor can be improved considerably, provided
the Government takes a number of essential measures consisting of (a) prepa-
ration and execution of investment programs and establishment of a proper
institutional framework to execute such programs in the altiplano and valleys;
(b) channeling adequate credit and technical assistance to small farmers in
support of such programs; (c) organization of small landholders into coopera-
tives or other functional groups; and (d) research to develop appropriate
crop varieties for the climatic conditions of the altiplano and valleys.
2.11      Although the Government does not have a rural development program
nor a clear-cut policy for rural development, the present administration is
well aware of the need to adopt such measures and, with external assistance,
has recently begun to channel more financial and human resources to small
farmers. The Government has also taken steps to reform pertinent institutions



-4-
and to improve sector management capabilities. In early 1974, the Ministries
of Agriculture and Peasant Affairs were merged. A special office to coordinate
all the development activities on the altiplano has been established with
the assistance of the UNDP. Preparation of capital investment projects in
the altiplano are now being carried out by IDB. IDB is planning assistance
in the field of agricultural research. Likewise, USAID is now considering
the possibility of providing technical assistance for the improvement of
the Ministry's effectiveness in the formulation of policies, sector planning,
and coordination and supervision of investment programs. It is also providing
technical and financial assistance to the National Community Development
Services (SNDC) to expand its role beyond its present involvement in infra-
structure projects only. A reorganization study for the Agricultural Bank
of Bolivia (BAB) aimed at improving the efficiency of this institution will
be financed under Credit 261-BO. Support from external agencies is designed
to improve planning, coordination and supervision of development programs to
benefit the rural poor in the altiplano and valleys.
2.12      The rural development effort in the project area is intended to
bring about needed relief in a region characterized by low productivity and
high incidence of poverty. The project proposes a gradual development scheme
which would organize farmers into larger production units and introduce simple
technical innovations in agricultural practices with the support of technical
assistance and credit. From a long-run viewpoint, the project is an initial
step toward the organization of human resources, capital formation, and
increase of factor productivity in Bolivia's depressed rural areas.
C. Project Area
2.13      The project area is located in the altiplano at about 4,000 m alti-
tude, some 20 km southe2st of La Paz (Annex 1, Map IBRD 11737). It covers
an area of about 800 km , primarily in the eastern part of the Ingavi Province
but also partly in the southern part of Los Andes Province. Viacha, the
capital of Ingavi Province, is situated approximately in the center of the
project area. The plain is mostly uniform land with a gentle slope (about 2%),
although some of it is slightly rolling and is broken by a few small hills.
Mountain ranges are located to the east and west of the area. Average annual
precipitation is about 500 mm, about 60% of which falls from December to
February; however, precipitation can vary widely from month to month. Hail
storms, which occur from December to February, cause total crop loss about
one year in 10. Average temperatures vary from 10°C in the summer (December
to February) to 7°C in the winter. Frosts occur, primarily in the winter,
although light frosts which generally do not kill the crops occur during the
summer months as well. About half of the project area is suitable for crops
and nearly 30% is suitable for irrigation. The utilizable aquifer extends
for an area of about 7,000 ha in the central part of the project area. However,
because of the limited availability of water (there are no significant surface
water resources), only about 1,000 ha (about 5% of the irrigable land) could
be supplied with water.



- 5 -
2.14      The project area population of about 60,000 consists almost exclu-
sively of indigenous farmers, almost all of whom live in adobe dwellings on
their own land. About 70% of them have legal titles, and the National
Agrarian Reform Directorate is continuing its program of issuing titles to
the remainder. Some land has been maintained for common use in both the
traditional communities 1/ and in those areas previously covered by large
individual land holdings. The families average about four children and
thus have a total of about three adult labor units each for work on the
farm. About 90% of the productive population has had same formal education.
Medical attention is provided mostly by local healers.
2.15      On average, farmers in the project area have about 6 ha of land,
about 56% of which is fallow and native pasture, 5% in potatoes, 7% in quinoa
(an Andean grain), 30% in barley and oats, and 2% in other crops. Each
farmer has, on average, three cows and a bull, two donkeys for hauling, 20
sheep, and a few pigs and chickens. Plowing is accomplished with steel-
pointed wooden plows drawn by the bull and a cow. Seed is retained from the
previous harvest, and animal manure is used as fertilizer, primarily for
potatoes. Yields are low: 4 tons/ha for potatoes; 0.6 tons/ha for quinoa;
and 3 tons/ha dry matter for barley and oats. The main cash crop is potatoes,
the barley and oats being used as forage for the animals. Total net income
per farmer is about $b 6,900/year (US$345/year), of which about $b 1,500/year
(US$75/year) is cash.
2.16      Experience has indicated that, with the use of improved seed, addi-
tional fertilizer, supplementary irrigation, and improved breeding stock,
yields can be more than doubled and incomes increased accordingly. These
increases can be achieved, however, only through a coordinated package of
activities involving credit for investments and working capital, technical
assistance, supporting infrastructure, and some improvement of social facili-
ties which would directly affect the quality of life of the farmers.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
3.01      The principal objectives of the project are to improve income
distribution by increasing the income of small farmers (6 ha average), raise
the standard of living of the population of the project area through higher
incomes and improved health conditions, foster the cooperative movement as
a means of forming more efficient economic units and utilizing more effec-
tively scarce technical assistance and credit resources, increase supplies
of basic foods to the La Paz market, and serve as a model for development
efforts elsewhere in the altiplano.
1/   Based on tracts of land which are the remnants of holdings originally
granted by the Spanish Crown to protect the native population of the
altiplano against usurpation.



- 6 -
3.02      The project would increase agricultural and livestock production
through the provision of production inputs, deepwell irrigation systems,
tractors, livestock investments, storage facilities, and roads; and would
improve living conditions through the installation of health, drinking water
and waste facilities. It would include technical assistance and credit for
incremental working capital and fixed investments. The implementation period
would be five years.
3.03      A semi-autonomous agency (the Project Unit) has been created under
the Ministry of Peasant Affairs and Agriculture (MACA) to implement the
project. It would provide credit and technical assistance to farmer groups
and would enter into agreements with the National Roads Service (SNC) for the
improvement of roads, the Ministry of Social Security and Public Health
(MPSSP) for the execution of the health, drinking water, and waste components,
the Servicio Geologico de Bolivia (GEOBOL) for the installation of deep well
irrigation systems, the Servicio Nacional de Desarrollo de Comunidades (SNDC)
for the construction of distribution and drainage system and improvement of
existing drainage, and the Instituto Geografico Militar (IGM) for mapping of
the parts of the project area to be irrigated. The Banco Agricola de Bolivia
(BAB), under a subsidiary agreement with Banco Central, would act as the
financial agent, responsible for processing loan applications and disbursing
credit funds to farmers on recommendation of the Project Unit. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that signing of each agreement would be a
condition of disbursement for the respective component.
3.04      The number of beneficiary families would vary from about 4,000 in
the case of agricultural investments to about 10,000 in the case of roads.
The table below gives the number of beneficiary families for each of the main
project components and the cost per family (base cost plus physical contin-
gency).
Number of
Beneficiary         Cost per
Component                                  Families           Family
(US$)
On-farm investments plus power line         4,000            1,010
Incremental working capital                 4,000              370
Technical services                          4,000              590
Roads                                      10,000               78
Health facilities                           8,000               11
Water and waste facilities                  8,000              128
B. Detailed Features
On-Farm Investments and Incremental Working Capital
3.05      The principal requirements for increased production in the project
area are improved production inputs, additional water for irrigation ppurposes,



-7-
mechanization (at least in conjunction with irrigation), improved cultivation
and animal husbandry practices, and more efficient marketing of output. The
project would meet these requirements (within the constraint of water availa-
bility), and would do so in the context of traditional methods of community
cooperation. Thus, small farmers participating in the project would be members
of groups, with the groups differing by function and by degree of internal
commitment. All groups would operate, common storage facilities (Model 4
represents those groups which opt for this level of cooperation only). Some
groups would operate both storage and livestock (stud service) facilities
in common (Model 3 represents those groups which choose this level). Some
groups would undertake to develop crops and livestock on (land which they main-
tain collectively as well as on their independently owned plots. The communal
farms would be developed on land that presently is operated in common or on a
block formed by contributions of the group members. In some cases, these
groups would carry out rainfed development only (Model 2), while in others
they would have access to irrigation water for the communal farm (Model 1)
(Annexes 1 to 3).
3.06      For illustrative purposes, the groups are assumed to have an
average membership of 50 small farm families each (a representative size for
existing groups in the project area), and a total of about 80 groups (4,000
farm families) is expected to participate in the project. In the case of
the communal farms, each member of the group is expected to contribute 1.5
ha to the commonly-operated block, forming a total of 75 ha for each group.
This total area would be a requirement for irrigation groups (Model 1) in
order to ensure efficient utilization of irrigation facilities. They would
irrigate about 50 ha of the total on a rotating basis. Because of the yield
and characteristics of the groundwater aquifer, the number of wells, and
consequently irrigation groups, would be limited to 20.
3.07      Production would be based on a mixed farming system.  Potatoes,
vegetables, and quinoa would be grown for home consumption and for market,
while alfalfa/fescue and green barley would be cultivated as livestock feed--
primarily for dairy cattle and sheep. Investments would include 20 deepwell
irrigation systems (each with one well, storage tank, submersible pump, shed,
and distribution and drainage system) (Annex 2); 20 tractors; livestock facili-
ties (cultivated pasture, breeding animals, and handling and watering facili-
ties), and storage and administration facilities. Incremental working capital
would include improved seed, fertilizer, chemicals for seed treatment, in-
secticide, fungicide, and cultivation. Each group would receive long- and
medium-term credit to finance irrigation systems, livestock facilities (in-
cluding pasture, breeding animals, and handling and watering facilities),
tractors, and storage facilities, and short-term credit to cover working
capital cost.
3.08      In view of the limited irrigation water available, groups under-
taking irrigated development would be required to have, in addition to 75 ha
of irrigable land (para. 3.06), at least 30 member families in order to
spread the benefits. For purposes of construction and procurement effi-
ciency, the wells would be installed in two groups of 10 each, in 1976/77



-8-
and 1977/78. The organization of irrigation groups also would proceed
according to this schedule, with 10 being formed by July 1, 1977 and another
10 by July 1, 1978 and each having 75 ha of irrigable land which would be
operated as a unit. A detailed study (design, siting, water balance and such)
for all 20 wells would be undertaken by the Project Unit's groundwater specia-
list and the results provided to the Bank for its review prior to the con-
struction of wells or the purchase of equipment. In order to avoid jeopardizing
the performance of project wells, the Government would ensure that the project
area aquifers would not be exploited to the extent that the water supplied by
such aquifers becomes insufficient for the irrigation requirements of the
Project. The tractors would be used primarily on irrigated land, where pro-
duction increases are sufficient to warrant their use. They would be provided
to groups which exhibit capability to operate and maintain a tractor effectively
and to those contractors or service organizations that have entered into
agreements with irrigation groups to work at least 75 ha of land for about five
years. However, preferences for the purchase of tractors would be given to
farmer groups over contractors. Assurance on the above matters were obtained
during negotiations.
Technical Services
3.09      Technical assistance on the formation and administration of groups;
agriculture and livestock practices; operation and maintenance of tractors,
irrigation systems, and livestock and storage facilities; training for farmers;
and preparation and implementation of farm development plans would be provided
to farmer groups by the Project Unit (Annex 4). The Project Unit also would
grant long-term and short-term subloans to farmer groups in support of the
development plans. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the
Government would provide funds to maintain the Project Unit over the develop-
ment period of about 10 years.  Consultant assistance for the Project Unit
would be provided by three resident specialists (in project administration,
groundwater irrigation, and marketing and credit) for a three-year period and
by short-term consultants (including specialists in agricultural machinery
and adult literacy crops and pasture, dairy livestock, and sociologist). In
addition, a specialist in sanitary engineering would be provided for a four-
year period to assist MPSSP in the implementation of the drinking water and
waste component. The consultant services of the technical services component
of the project (US$0.9 million) were originally to be financed by UNDP and
the Government; however, due to UNDP's recent financial difficulties, the
consultant services would now be financed jointly by the Bank (US$0.5 million)
and the Government (US$0.4 million).  Should UNDP funds for financing con-
sultant services become available during the 1977-80 period, then the correspon-
ding amounts in the Bank loan would be cancelled.
3.10      The Project Unit would establish by February, 1977 a system for
monitoring and evaluating project impact in order to provide guidance to project
management in implementing the project and to improve the design of further
projects over the development period of about 10 years. Data would be collected



- 9 -
on the physical financial, economic, and social aspects of the project. Acti-
vities on the group and project levels, as well as the farm level, would be
analyzed. Among the factors considered would be increased production and
income, the progress of group organization and operation, the effectiveness
of project lending, and the cost of project services (Annex 4). An assurance
was obtained during negotiations that the Project Unit would establish such
a system for the development period of about 10 years.
Roads
3.11      Improvement of roads would be required to assure the supply of
inputs to farmer groups, the transportation of produce to markets, and the
access of Project Unit personnel to farmer groups throughout the project
area (Annex 5). Of particular importance during the rainy season, however,
would be the transportation of milk to the dairy plant, timely supply of
vegetables to markets and access to the health centers. Since dirt roads
are impassable during the rainy season, all-weather gravel roads would be
necessary. About 85 km of road would be improved or constructed (along dirt
tracks). The road work would be undertaken by the SNC under agreement with
the Project Unit and unskilled labor would be provided by beneficiaries. The
roads also would be maintained by SNC, again with unskilled labor provided by
beneficiaries. Funds would be provided under the project for maintenance of
project roads during the implementation period, and an assurance was obtained
during negotiations that the Government would maintain all roads in the
project area during and after the project period.
Health Facilities
3.12      In order to provide minimal health services to the population of
the project area, the area's present health activities would be expanded to
include six satellite health posts surrounding the centrally-located Viacha
hospital, which would serve as the referral center and would be improved
(Annex 6). The health posts would be staffed by auxiliary nurses. Auxillary
nurses' training would be provided under the project. Candidates for training
would be selected by local health post committees. Mobile units would be
provided to facilitate supervision, administration and transportation. The
health component would be implemented by the Ministry of Social Security and
Public Health under an agreement with the Project Unit. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would provide the necessary
staff with adequate incentives and would be responsible for full operating
costs of the health system.
Water and Waste Facilities
3.13      Potable water supply would be provided to about 8,000 families from
4,000 shallow wells equipped with handpumps (Annex 7). A survey is now being
completed to determine more precisely the number of wells needed, but about
3,000 wells would be located in areas where the groundwater table was close to



- 10 -
the surface and would be excavated manually; while about 1,000 wells would be
drilled. In the case of drilled wells, a cash contribution of 5% would be
required of beneficiaries since little unskilled labor would be employed in
construction. A limit of $b 7,200 (US$360) would be placed on the cash cost
of a well to keep it within reasonable limits. The survey, which would
be identifying existing facilities and locations for new wells, would be sent
to the Bank for review prior to the installation of any wells.   Pit privies
would also be provided for about 3,000 families. Implementation of the drink-
ing water and waste component would be undertaken by MPSSP under an agreement
with the Project Unit, with beneficiaries providing the labor for digging
wells and constructing pit privies. MPSSP would supervise the operation of
wells and maintain them, with the beneficiaries bearing the cost of maintenance
and it would supervise the maintenance of the pit privies by the beneficiaries.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations on the above.
Power Line
3.14      Utilization of electricity by the irrigation wells would produce
a significant saving in capital cost (pumps and motors), incur about the same
operating cost as the diesel alternative, and provide substantial benefits in
terms of ease of operation and maintenance (Annex 2). In order to deliver
power to the wells, the Bolivia Power Co. would have to extend a line into
the project area. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that
the Government would cause the completion of this extension by July 1, 1977,
and the tariff rate to be charged to the users would be satisfactory to the
Bank.
C. Cost Estimates
3.15      Total project cost is estimated at $b 257 million (US$12.9 million),
of which $b 102 million (US$5.1 million), or 40%, represents foreign exchange
requirements. Cost estimates and foreign exchange requirements are summarized
below:



Foreign
Project Cost                     Base   Exchange
Component              Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Cost  Requirement
------ $b million --       - US$ million ----   …--  ----…%------
On-farm investments    37.3    33.8    71.1   1.86    1.69    3.55   39           48
Incremental production
credit                22.2      7.4    29.6   1.11    0.37    1.48   16         25
Technical services      24.4    18.4    42.8   1.22    0.92    2.14   24           43
Roads                     7.0     6.5    13.5   0.35    0.33    0.68    7         48
Health facilities         0.9     0.7      1.6   0.05    0.03    0.08    1         45
Water and waste
facilities            12.0      6.5    18.5   0.60    0.32    0.92   10         35
Power line               2.1      3.2      5.3   0.11    0.16    0.27    3         60
Sub-total         105.9    76.5   182.4   5.30    3.82    9.12  100          42
Contingencies
Physical               6.9      5.7    12.6   0.35    0.28    0.63              44
Price                 42.9    19.3    62.2   2.14    0.97    3.11               31
Sub-total          49.8    25.0    74.8   2.49    1.25    3.74               33
Total             155.7   101.5   257.2   7.79    5.07   12.86               40
The physical contingency has been calculated at 10 to 15% of base cost on elements
other than credit.  The price contingency has been calculated on base cost plus
physical contingency as of the end of 1975 at the following rates: 15% for 1976,
12% for 1977/79, and 10% for 1980/81 on the local currency component; and 10%
for 1976, 8% for 1977/79, and 7% for 1980/81 on the foreign exchange requirement.
D. Financing
3.16      The project cost of $b 257 million (US$12.9 million) would be financed
as follows: Government would contribute $b 66 million (US$3.3 million), or
25% of project cost; the Bank would finance $b 190 million (US$9.5 million)
or 74%; and the beneficiaries the balance of $b 1 million (US$0.1 million) or
1%. The Bank loan would cover the foreign exchange costs (US$5.1 million, or
40% of project cost), and 56% of the local currency costs (US$4.4 million, or
34% of project cost). In addition to the financial contribution indicated
above, beneficiaries would make a substantial labor contribution to project
works valued at $b 67 million (US$3.4 million) at market prices, which is not
included in the cost or financing tables. The financing for individual com-
ponents of the project is summarized in the following table (amounts in US$
million).



- 12 -
Project Financing
Beneficiaries    Government    Bank
Component                      Amt.        X      Amt.    X   Amt.   X   Total
On-farm investments              -         -      0.99   28   2.56  72   3.55
Incremental production credit  -           -      0.41   28   1.07  72   1.48
Technical services               -         -      0.25   12   1.89  88   2.14
Roads                            -         -      0.19   28   0.49  72   0.68
Health facilities                -         -      0.02   28   0.06  72   0.08
Water and waste facilities    0.03         3      0.23   25   0.66  72   0.92
Power line                       -         -      0.27  100    -    -    0.27
Contingencies                   0.01       1      0.96   25   2.77  74.  3.74
Total                     0.04        1     3.32   25   9.50  74  12.86
3.17      Government would be the borrower and would bear the foreign exchange
risk on the Bank loan of 25 years, including seven years of grace. Loan proceeds,
as well as the Government contribution, would be channeled through the
Central Bank to the Project Unit and the other participating agencies. The
Government would make its contribution according to a schedule agreed upon
with the Bank. Funds would be disbursed from the Central Bank project accounts
only on authorization from the Project Unit, except in the case of BAB, where
funds would be disbursed against evidence of disbursement by BAB on subloans
to project beneficiaries approved by the Project Unit. BAB would make payments
to the Central Bank project accounts as repayments were received from sub-
borrowers, and funds acccruing in the accounts would be available for further
lending in the project area for similar purposes. The Central Bank would
receive 1/4% on outstanding subloan amounts as compensation for its services.
Assurances on the above were obtained during negotiations.
E. Procurement
3.18      Procurement of most farm inputs would be made by farmer groups
through normal commercial channels because the size and timing of individual
purchases would not be suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB).
In the case of tractors, however, the current monopoly position of one manu-
facturer for tractors in the 40 to 110 horse power range needed for the proj-
ect distorts the supply situation. Since representatives of at least five
foreign manufacturers have facilities adequate to provide necessary service
and spare parts, tractors would be purchased in two groups of 10 each, and
contracts would be awarded following local competitive bidding in which all
suppliers could take part.   Assurance was obtained during negotiations that
the Government would permit the importation of tractors in the 40 to 110 horse
power range on equal terms for all bidding firms. The total amount involved
(covering the cost of tractors, implements, spares) would be US$0.7 million.
The pumps, motors, casings, and screens for the irrigation wells also would



- 13 -
be grouped in lots of 10 and purchased through ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines (total US$0.3 million). The wells would be installed (US$0.7
million which excludes the US$0.3 million for pumps and such) by the Geolog-
ical Survey of Bolivia (GEOBOL) under agreements with the Project Unit.
Road work (US$0.7 million) would be undertaken by SNC on force account, using
unskilled labor supplied by project beneficiaries. Construction of simple
adobe buildings and other facilities would be carried out by project
beneficiaries under the supervision of the National Community Development
Service (SNDC), which would operate under agreement with the implementing
agency having primary responsibility for the particular component involved
(Project Unit or MPSSP).   MPSSP would install the drinking water supply
wells and privies (US$1.0 million) by force account, with the assistance of
project beneficiaries (para 3.13). Assurances on the above were obtained
during negotiations.
F. Disbursement
3.19      The Bank would disburse 72% of expenditures for on-farm investments,
incremental production credit, and road construction by force account, against
certificates of expenditure, the documentation for which would not be sub-
mitted for review but would be retained by the Government and held available
for inspection by the Bank during the course of supervision missions. Expen-
ditures for health, drinking water, and waste facilities also would be reim-
bursed at the rate of 72%, against appropriate documentation. For technical
services, the Bank would disburse 88% of expenditures against appropriate
documents. Any undisbursed loan funds remaining after project completion
would be cancelled. Since the construction period would be five years (Annex
8), disbursement is expected to require five and one half years (Annex 9).
G. Organization and Management
3.20      The Project Unit, established as a semi-autonomous agency under MACA
(Annex 4), would be responsible for project implementation. The content of
the decree and statutes creating the Project Unit would not be modified with-
out giving the Bank an opportunity to comment on the proposed change. The
Project Unit would have two main departments: the Services Department and the
Engineering Department. It would have direct responsibility for implementing
the on-farm investment and working capital components of the project, while
SNC would have responsibility for implementing roads; MPSSP, the health,
drinking water and waste facilities; GEOBOL, the installation of deep well
irrigation systems; SNDC, the construction of distribution and drainage sys-
tem and improvement of existing drainage; IGM, the mapping of the parts of
the project area to be irrigated; and BPC, the extension of power lines into
the project area for the irrigation systems under agreements with the Project
Unit. Assurances on the above were obtained during negotiations.



- 14 -
3.21      Policy for project implementation would be established by the Project
Unit's board of directors, which would be composed of a representative and
alternate from MACA, the Ministry of Planning and Coordination, the Ministry
of Finance, MPSSP, the Department of La Paz Development Corporation (CORDEPAZ),
BAB, agricultural technician from MACA, and a representative of the farmers
participating in the project with the representative of MACA as chairman.
The project manager would also be a member. In addition to establishing proj-
ect implementation policy, the board would appoint the project manager,
approve annual budgets and work plans, and ensure effective coordination
among participating agencies. The composition and functions of the board of
directors are given in Schedule A, and these matters are outlined in the
decree and statutes.
3.22      The project manager has been appointed and his deputy would also be
employed in consultation with the Bank. A nucleus of staff for the Project
Unit would be seconded from existing agencies, including MACA, BAB, and SNDC,
and additional staff would be recruited from outside the Government structure.
The staffing schedule would be agreed upon with the Bank (Schedule A). Train-
ing would be provided primarily on the job, but technicians would also attend
courses at the Belen and Patacamaya experiment stations and courses in farm
plan preparation and financing given by BAB. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations.
Consultants
3.23      In order to assist the Project Unit (in an advisory capacity) in
establishing its organization and procedures, to train project staff (Annex
4), and to help provide technical assistance to project beneficiaries, three
resident consultants would be retained for a three-year period. They would
be, respectively, specialists in project administration, groundwater irriga-
tion, and marketing and credit. Short-term consultants (including agricul-
tural machinery, crops and pasture, dairy livestock, sociologist, and adult
literacy specialists) would be recruited by the project manager with the
agreement of the consultant on project administration. Furthermore, a
specialist in sanitary engineering would be retained for a four-year period
to assist MPSSP in the implementation of the drinking water and waste com-
ponent. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the consultants
and their terms of reference (which would include the points given in Schedule
B) would be agreed upon by the Bank.
Project Unit Functions
3.24      The Project Unit would be located in the provincial capital of
Viacha, situated within the project area. It would advise farmer groups on
agriculture and livestock practices, assist them in the preparation and
implementation of development plans, grant subloans for on-farm investments
and working capital, assist farmer groups in purchasing inputs and selling
products, implement a program of demonstration farm trials (with the coopera-
tion of the experiment stations), train technicians and farmers (including



- 15 -
an adult literacy program), and assist farmers in the organization and
administration of groups. It would also design the irrigation systems and
supervise their construction, operation and maintenance; purchase the tractors
and supervise their operation and maintenance; and supervise the construction,
operation, and maintenance of the livestock and storage facilities. Although
most of the actual construction of these facilities would be undertaken by
other agencies with the participation of the farmer groups, the Project Unit
would maintain general supervision of the work of the agencies. It would
assume a similar role with respect to the road, health, and drinking water
and waste components, and would authorize disbursements from the project
account as the work progressed under the agreements with the responsible
agencies.
Farmer Groups
3.25      The inhabitants of the altiplano have long utilized cooperative
forms of organization to undertake various activities. In addition to purely
political organizations, there are perhaps 40 groups currently in existence
in the project area, with membership varying from 30 to 75 families and
activities ranging from production to consumption. The legal status of the
groups also varies widely, with some being merely informal organizations while
others are registered with the Ministry of Agriculture as pre-cooperatives
and still others are registered with the Ministry of Labor as full cooperatives.
Some of the groups engaged in productive activities have blocks of land,
formed by contributions of the members, which are operated in common. Others
cooperate on a service basis only. In almost all cases, however, there are
some facilities (office, store, warehouse, stable, or land, etc.) which are
held and operated in common.
3.26      Although there are numerous groups and a variety of functions being
performed by the groups, most of them have not been in existence continuously
for extended periods of time. Often they have been formed to serve a specific
purpose, then have slumped into inactivity when the need has been met, only
to be reactivated when another perceived need has arisen. These periods of
activity frequently have occurred in response to external stimuli. Thus
many of the groups have been unable to generate sufficient internal benefits
to justify their continuous existence. Various factors have contributed
to this pattern of sporadic operation, but perhaps the two principal external
factors are the inadequacy of technical assistance and the lack of credit.
Technical assistance needs are for organization and management of groups,
including training of group leaders and assistance in administration and
record-keeping, and, to the extent that groups are involved in productive
activities, for training and guidance in agriculture and livestock practices.
Credit requirements include short-term and long-term financing for working
capital and investments.
3.27      Previous attempts to meet these requirements of the groups have been
partial, limited, and thus largely unsuccessful. Continued technical assistance
on a broad basis and adequate credit have not been provided. The extension



- 16 -
service of MACA includes dedicated technicians, but there are too few of
them to be effective. The Northern Altiplano Project, supported by MACA
and CORDEPAZ, is demonstrating initial promise, but it is devoted almost
exclusively to the supply of production inputs and covers too large an area
to be effective. The UNDP-supported projects which preceeded the Northern
Altiplano Project provided groups with some investment inputs, as well as
production inputs, but it lacked continuous technical assistance to ensure
that the investment was put to productive use. Furthermore, the credit
obligations were not well defined. BAB never has established satisfactory
credit relationships in the project area. SNDC is working well with groups
to construct social infrastructure works, but involvement with the groups
tends to diminish once the works are completed. The organization which
seems to be having the most success working with groups, the Center Social
and Economic Development (DESEC), a non-profit organization, focusses on
the institutional aspect of group formation and development, and assists
groups in undertaking well defined agricultural programs.
3.28      The activities of groups participating in the project would vary
considerably. At one end of the scale, they would only operate storage facil-
ities, while at the other, they would operate irrigation systems, storage and
livestock facilities. Thus the project would have the flexibility to encom-
pass a wide range of agricultural development programs and agricultural
activities. The Project Unit would assist farmers wishing to form a group,
provide guidance to groups on administrative matters, and help groups establish
simple records of physical and financial data. Group leaders would attend
courses in organization and management at one of the SNDC training centers. In
the area of production activities, the Project Unit would assist groups in
the purchase of inputs, the installation and operation of facilities and equip-
ment, the implementation of improved agriculture and livestock practices, and
the marketing of output. Credit would be provided for both seasonal produc-
tion requirements and long-term investment requirements according to farm plans
prepared by the Project Unit in cooperation with the groups. It is expected
that these inputs, together with the increases in income to be achieved under
the project and the benefits to be received from the investments in social in-
frastructure, would provide an adequate basis for the formation and continuous
functioning of effective farmer groups.
3.29      The project initially would aim at the existing groups and simul-
taneously promote the formation of new ones. It would recognize for partici-
pation all groups which have been organized to carry out project-related
activities, whether or not they were registered as pre-cooperatives or co-
operatives. About the only requirements would be that they had an established
structure, that their members had made a contribution to the group's capital
(perhaps $b 50) as a demonstration of support, and that they were willing to
undertake credit obligations. Currently, BAB is providing credit to such
groups in the altiplano with much success.
Lending
3.30      Groups would receive subloans for the purchase of production inputs
and tractors and for the construction of irrigation, livestock, and storage



- 17 -
facilities. The contribution of groups would be in the form of labor (amount-
ing to about 26% of the total of cash and non-cash costs, in the case of
irrigation systems and about 32% for livestock and storage facilities).
Subloan maturities would range from six months in the case of some production
inputs to a maximum of 20 years for irrigation systems, with grace periods
of up to five years (a list of maturities and grace periods by category is
given in Schedule C). The interest rate would be 12%, which is in line with
rates BAB is charging small farmers under IDA's credits 261-BO and 561-BO.
Security would be in the form of a chattel mortgage on the crops, animals,
and implements of all beneficiaries of a group. Since land mortgages would
not be required, land titling would not be a critical point. Nevertheless,
in order to facilitate the establishment of regular commercial relationships,
particularly after the project period, the Government would complete the
titling process in the project area by December 31, 1977. Assurances on the
above were obtained during negotiations.
3.31      Farm plans and subloan applications would be prepared by the Project
Unit and, after approval of the project manager, would be forwarded to BAB
for disbursement of funds. Supervision of farm plan implementation would
be undertaken by the Project Unit and authorization by the Project Unit would
be required for each disbursement against a farm plan. The Project Unit would
supervise the collection of subloans, with BAB handling the funds. BAB would
make payments to the Central Bank project account only as amounts were
received from sub-borrowers and therefore would not carry any financial risk.
In order to perform its project functions, BAB would establish an office in
the city of Viacha. As compensation for its participation, BAB would receive
a margin of 2% on outstanding subloan balances. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.
H. Accounts and Auditing
3.32      Project accounts would be established by the Central Bank, the
Project Unit, BAB, SNC, and MPSSP. Those of the Project Unit and BAB would
be audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Bank, and certified copies
of the auditors' reports would be sent to the Bank within six months of the
close of the respective financial years. The accounts of farmer groups would
be audited by the Project Unit.
IV. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
Production
4.01      Annual incremental production generated by the project would be
about 14,400 tons of potatoes, 400 tons of quinoa, 300 tons of vegetables,
3 million liters of milk (some of which would be processed into cheese on
the farm), 120 tons of beef, and 30 tons of mutton. In addition, some beans,



- 18 -
local tubers, poultry, and pigs would be produced. The incremental output
of potatoes and quinoa would correspond to about 1% and 3%, and of beef and
mutton to less than 1%, of national production in 1974.
Marketing and Prices
4.02      Marketing prospects are satisfactory for project output.  Part of
the incremental production would be consumed on the farm while the remainder
would be sold in local markets or, increasingly, delivered directly to buyers
in La Paz. The proximity of the project area to La Paz (about 20 km) places
it in a favorable position for supplying this urban center with a growing
population now at the level of about 600,000. The marketing function would
be undertaken by the farmers groups with the assistance of the Project Unit,
which would provide information on prices and would help the groups arrange
transportation with the various truckers operating in the area. Milk would
be sold to the Government-owned Industrialized Milk Plant (PIL) at La Paz,
or would be converted to cheese for sale in the local markets. PIL currently
is operating at about 30% of capacity of which only 10% is fresh and the re-
mainder is reconstituted. The latter is based on powdered milk received from
the World Health Program (WHP) which is tentatively scheduled to terminate
within the next three years. The annual incremental milk production under
the project would be 3 million liters, increasing the proportion of fresh milk
to about 35% of PIL's present input. Improving PIL's milk collection service
would be required to ensure increase in milk supplies. An assurance was
obtained during negotiations that the Government would cause PIL to collect
milk from project beneficiaries at least once a day and would ensure that PIL
had sufficient facilities and personnel to effect the collection. In order
to evaluate the extent to which milk supply from the altiplano norte could be
increased sufficiently to meet PIL's full operation capacity and since family
milk production is an important part of subsistence farming and could provide
a major source of cash income in the altiplano, an assurance was obtained dur-
ing negotiations that the Government would prepare, within one year of the
date of effectiveness, a comprehensive plan for the development of milk pro-
duction in the region. Improvements in the road network would ensure that
products could be transported to market in a timely manner and are particularly
important for the year-round collection of milk.
4.03      Farmgate prices have been rising steadily since 1970, reflecting
both world and domestic market trends. At present, producer prices provide
sufficient incentives to farmers to make the proposed investments, and the
storage facilities contemplated would enable them to take advantage of
seasonal price fluctuations.
Producer Benefits
4.04      Of the 10,000 families (60,000 people) living in the project area,
all would benefit from the road improvements, about 80% from health, drinking
water, and waste facilities; and about 40% from on-farm investments and working



- 19 -
capital. The table below gives a summary of producer benefits taken from
the illustrative farm models (Annex 1).
Irrigated                          Rainfed
Communal    Rainfed Communal    Individual Marketing
Development    Development        Development   Group
(Model 1)      (Model 2)          (Model 3)  (Model 4)
Number of groups                 20              20                20        20
Number of families           1,000           1,000              1,000     1,000
Average farm size per
family (ha)                    6               6                  6         6
Investment cost per
family (US$)               2,650             885                168        42
Net income per family (US$)
At present                   345             345                345       345
At full development        1,120             820                680       600
Increment (US$)                775             475                335       255
Financial rate of
return (%)                    20              32                200       200
Since the proposed development is based on technology already utilized in or
near the project area and on traditional forms of cooperation among the target
farmers, these rates of return are considerd feasible. Compared to the rest
of the population, project farmers would rise from among the poorest 20% in
Bolivia to about the national average income level. Thus the rates of return
and substantial absolute increases in income are expected to provide satisfac-
tory financial incentives for project farmers. Together with the provision
of social facilities which would affect the quality of life of farmers directly,
they are considered to be adequate incentives for farmers to undertake the
types of development foreseen in the project.
Cost Recovery
4.05      The beneficiaries would pay 100% of the investment and operating
costs of production facilities. Investment costs would be recovered through
the credit mechanism, and operating costs would be partially financed through
credit and partially paid directly by the beneficiaries. Technical assistance
would be provided to beneficiaries as a normal extension service, and the costs
would not be recovered. The power line investment and operating costs would
be recovered 100% through the tariff charged to beneficiaries. For roads
and health facilities, beneficiaries would make a labor contribution to both
investment and operating (maintenance) costs, but cash costs would not be
recovered. In the case of drinking water and waste facilities, beneficiaries
would make a contribution in kind (mostly labor) to investment costs and would
make a small (5%) cash contribution for drilled wells. The remaining cash
investment costs would not be recovered, but operating costs would be defrayed
by the beneficiaries.



- 20 -
Environmental Effects
4.06      The major focus of the project is on productive activities which
would result in the improvement of land and water management. The mixed
farming system to be utilized would increase the production of forage crops
and lead to a better balance between the animal stocking rate and carrying
capacity of the land. This factor, together with better cultivation practices,
would reduce soil erosion, which is a major problem throughout the altiplano.
In addition, the irrigation and drainage works to be constructed would permit
control of the water balance and reduce the salinity problem in part of the
project area. The prevalence of transmissible disease endemic to this area
would not be increased as a result of the irrigation development. (Although
malaria is of concern in other parts of Bolivia, it is not present in the
altiplano.) The fertilizer and insecticides to be used would have only a
small effect on the environment, given normal precaution in their use. The
sanitation facilities would reduce contamination of the environment, and
the water supply and health facilities would help shield beneficiaries from
harmful elements in the environment.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      This project would be the first comprehensive effort to substan-
tially improve traditional patterns of subsistence crop and livestock produc-
tion among the small farmers in the altiplano. About 4,000 small farmer
families (24,000 people) would receive short-term working capital and long-
term investment credit, together with technical assistance. Additional
external benefits would be received by consumers of the project's products at
La Paz, and by users of the project infrastructure--e.g., roads and by local
suppliers of project inputs. Apart from general consumption effects, the
health and welfare of most of the 10,000 families (60,000 people) in the proj-
ect area would improve as a result of better health services, domestic water
supplies, and waste disposal facilities. Income inequities between the rural
and urban sectors would be lessened and opportunities to develop farm manage-
ment skills under improved extension guidance would become available. The
irrigation component would lessen seasonal yield fluctuations due to rainfall
variability. The proposed pattern of development through group activity is
based on traditional practices and is in line with the Government's policy of
eliminating uneconomic landholdings.   This pilot project would also provide
reliable data and project management experience for later phases of Bolivia's
altiplano development effort.
5.02      Although few new jobs would be directly created by the project,
the increased production opportunity would lessen the considerable disguised
unemployment in the region as well as increase the skill level of the target
population. Furthermore, the secondary effect on non-farm rural employment
would be substantial, involving an increased demand for machinery operators,
mechanics, traders, and the like.



- 21 -
5.03      The best estimate of the project economic rate of return is 15%
(Annex 10). In determining this rate, half the costs of the health, water
supply, and waste systems were included since part of the benefits of these
facilities would be realized through increased labor productivity, and there-
fore would be represented in agricultural output. (Inclusion of all costs of
these facilities would decrease the return to 13%, while excluding all of them
would raise it to 17%.)
5.04      The economic methodology used to transform financial data consisted
of breaking the costs or prices of each item into components and repricing
them to reflect their economic worth. Each item was separated into local
labor, local materials and imported material components. The shadow wage
rate was determined by multiplying the financial cost of labor by the ratio
of its weighted average marginal opportunity cost during the year to the
average market wage rate. Traded goods were revalued at their c.i.f./f.o.b.
price adjusted for transport costs. The prices of non-traded goods were
multiplied by a conversion factor, which is the ratio of the official exchange
rate to the shadow exchange rate.
5.05      The average annual Government contribution during the implementation
perod would be about US$0.7 million (less than 1% of the annual public capital
expenditures), and substantially less after project completion. Provided
that the project is relatively successful and initial external assistance is
forthcoming, similar projects could be carried out in other areas within the
altiplano without placing too much of a burden on Government finances.
Risk and Uncertainty
5.06      Launching the project in the altiplano implies taking more than the
usual risk in Bank-financed projects in South America, particularly since the
results obtained in this region by other institutions have been mixed and in-
conclusive. Therefore, during preparation a special effort was made to
analyze past experience with other projects. As a conclusion it was found
that the main identifiable risk elements are (i) insufficient interest on the
part of farmers to participate effectively in the project; (ii) deficiencies
in the institutions involved in project implementation; and (iii) shortfalls
in reaching projected production targets because of technical factors.
5.07      In view of this, the project deliberately relies on traditional
methods of farm organization and farmers cooperation currently practiced in
varying degrees in the project area. The project is designed to insure maxi-
mum participation by farmer groups in decisions affecting not only their in-
vestments and operation of facilities but also their life style. Field demon-
strations and technical and organizational assistance by Bolivian staff would
be provided in a manner to motivate farmers to accept the proposed production
methods and to utilize effectively the various services offered under the proj-
ect.



- 22 -
5.08      The Project Unit was established since no existing agency was found
entirely suitable to execute this complicated project. Particular attention
will be paid to staffing the Unit with a group of well qualified and dedicated
professionals supported by consultant assistance. They would be expected to
work closely with farmer groups to help them make reasonably good investment
decisions which would be based on thorough evaluation of soil and climatic
conditions in the project area. These conditions are comparatively better
in the project area than elsewhere in the altiplano and, therefore, fairly
good results might be expected. However, because of the inadequate crop pro-
duction records in the provinces in question, the variations in projected
production increases are based on rough estimates only and there remains an
unavoidable and far from negligible degree of uncertainty with respect to
variation in yields that farmers may encounter. In view of the uncertainties
involved the project would have to be monitored very closely and modifications
may have to be introduced quickly during the implementation of the project.
Nevertheless, the risk of failure will remain but the Bolivian Government is
willing to assume this risk in order to improve production and living stand-
ards of poor farmers in the Altiplano and considers the Bank's support for
this experiment of crucial importance.
5.09      The main risks confronting the project were subjected to quantita-
tive analysis. The climatic data for the project area are not accompanied by
adequate crop production records. Therefore, the linkage necessary for a
formal risk analysis could not be established, and an uncertainty analysis
was undertaken instead. The project economic rate of return was found to be
sensitive to changes in (a) projected yield increases; (b) rate of benefit
build-up; (c) delays in project implementation; (d) project acceptance by
farmers both in degree and rate; (e) costs and prices; (f) cropping intensity;
and (g) timing of costs and returns:
Economic
Variable                                  Change       Rate of Return
(%)              (x)
Initial assumptions /1                        0              17
Yield of milk, potatoes                     +10               19
Yields                                      -10               12
Rate of build-up of benefits                -20              11
Delays in implementation                    +20               14
Degree of acceptance                        -20               14
Degree of acceptance plus
slower rate                               -20              12
Costs paid                                  +10              12
Costs paid                                  -10              20
Prices received                             +10               19
Prices received                             -10               12
Combination of costs and prices             +10 (both)        17
Cropping intensity                          +10               19
Lagging incidence of cost and
returns by six months                       -              14
/1   Including half the cost of the health, water supply, and waste systems.



- 23 -
5.10      In the absence of risk data, the influence of climatic variability
was approximated by a slower average rate of benefit build-up. Changes in
costs and prices would influence the return according to their relative
differences. If prices paid by farmers rose faster than prices paid to farm-
ers by 10% the return would drop to 12%. Because of possible delays in
farmer group organization and the difficulties of working with groups, the
rate and degree of acceptance of the development package is uncertain.  Far-
mers' costs and returns would not occur simultaneously during the year.  Seeds,
fertilizer, and such would be purchased before planting.  Other costs would
be incurred at harvest time.  Income would not come until after harvest and
would be delayed by storage.  If the benefit stream were lagged six months
behind the cost stream to reflect this situation, the return would drop to
14%. In reality, costs and income would overlap to a certain extent, raising
the return to 15%. A "pessimistic" judgment would have more variables taking
lower values rather than vice versa, giving a return of 12% or less. An
"optimistic" view would require more higher than lower values, giving a return
of 17% or above. A "most likely" judgment, where some values are below the
basic assumptions, and some above, suggests a return of 15%.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following main
points that the Government would:
(i)  require groups undertaking irrigated development to have at
least 30 member families and 75 ha of irrigable land to be
operated as a unit (para 3.08);
(ii) organize 10 irrigation groups by July 1, 1977, and another 10
by July 1, 1978 (para 3.08);
(iii) carry out a detailed study for all 20 irrigation wells with
the assistance of the groundwater irrigation specialist of the
Project Unit, and provide an opportunity for the Bank to review
this study prior to the purchase of equipment or the construc-
tion of wells (para 3.08);
(iv)  ensure that the project area aquifers are not exploited to the
extent that the water supplied by such aquifers becomes insuf-
ficient for the irrigation requirements of the Project (para
3.08);
(v)  provide tractors only to those irrigation groups which exhibit
capability to operate and maintain a tractor effectively under
the supervision of the Project Unit, and to those contractors
or service organizations which have entered into agreements



- 24 -
with irrigation groups to work at least 75 ha of land for
five years; with preference for the purchase of tractors given
to farmer groups over contractors (para 3.08);
(vi)  provide funds to maintain the Project Unit over the development
period of about 10 years (para 3.09);
(vii)  establish by February, 1977, in consultation with the Bank, a
monitoring system to measure project impact over the develop-
ment period of about 10 years (para 3.10);
(viii)  provide adequate maintenance for all roads in the project area
during and after the project period (para 3.11);
(ix)  provide the necessary staff, adequate incentives, and cover
the full operating and maintenance costs of the project health
system (para 3.12);
(x) obtain a cash contribution of 5% from beneficiaries of drilled
water supply wells (para 3.13);
(xi)  limit drinking water well cash cost to $b 7,200 (US$360) per
well (para 3.13);
(xii)  send the survey of existing water supply facilities presently
being completed to the Bank for review prior to installing any
project wells (para 3.13);
(xiii)  ensure that the power line extension to the project area is
completed by July 1, 1977 and the tariff rate to be charged
to the users would be satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.14);
(xiv)  make contributions to the project according to the schedule
agreed upon with the Bank (para 3.17);
(xv)  procure items in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph 3.18;
(xvi)  refrain from modifying the decree or statutes creating the
Project Unit without providing the Bank an opportunity to com-
ment on the proposed change (para 3.20);
(xvii)  cause the project deputy manager to be employed in consulta-
tion with the Bank (para 3.22);
(xviii)  adhere to staffing schedule for the Project Unit agreed upon
with the Bank and provide appropriate training (Schedule A)
(para 3.22);
(xix)  provide sub-loans to project beneficiaries according to the
lending items and conditions contained in Schedule C (para
3.30);



- 25 -
(xx) complete the granting of land titles in the project area by
December 31, 1977 (para 3.30);
(xxi) cause BAB to establish an office in the city of Viacha with
adequate staff and facilities in order to perform its project
functions (para 3.31);
(xxii) cause PIL to collect milk from project beneficiaries at least
once a day and ensure that PIL had sufficient facilities and
personnel to effect the collection (para 4.02); and
(xxiii) prepare, within one year of the date of effectiveness, a com-
prehensive plan for the development of milk production in the
altiplano norte (para 4.02).
6.02      Condition of effectiveness of the loan would be that the experts
in project administration, groundwater irrigation, marketing and credit, and
sanitary engineering would be employed under terms of reference agreed upon
by the Bank (para 3.23).
6.03      A condition of disbursement for each respective component of the
project would be that the Project Unit and the participating agencies in the
project have entered into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
and that Banco Central and BAB have signed a subsidiary agreement (para 3.03).
6.04      With the indicated assurances, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$9.5 million equivalent for a term of
25 years, including a seven-year grace period.
January 21, 1976






SCHEDULE A
Page 1
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Unit Guidelines
General
1.        The Project Unit was formed as a semi-autonomous agency under the
aegis of the Ministry of Peasant Affairs and Agriculture (MACA). It would
have direct responsibility for the on-farm investment and working capital
components of the project, while the roads would be constructed by the
National Roads Service (SNC), and the health, drinking water and waste faci-
lities would be installed by the Ministry of Social Security and Public Health
(MPSSP), under agreements with the Project Unit. The Project Unit would super-
vise the work of SNC and MPSSP and would authorize progress payments from the
project accounts at the Central Bank as implementation proceeded. The decree
and statutes establishing the Project Unit define the scope of responsibility
and authority of the Project Unit, and specify that the Project Unit has its
own organizational structure, administration, operations, and funds. It also
indicates the composition and functions of the board of directors of the
Project Unit.
Board of Directors
2.        Each of the entities listed below would name a representative to
the board of directors, and also an alternate who would replace the represent-
ative whenever the latter was unable to attend a meeting:
MACA
Ministry of Planning and Coordination
Ministry of Finance
Agricultural Technician, MACA
Ministry of Public Health
Department of La Paz DeveloDment Corporation (CORDEPAZ)
BAB
Project Manager
Project Farmers
The representative of MACA would be chairman of the coramittee and the repres-
entative of CORDEPAZ would be the vice chairman. The board would meet at
least monthly during the project implementation period. Functions of the
board would include the following:
(a) formulate policy for project execution in accordance with
the conditions agreed to between the Government and the
Bank:



SCHEDULE A
Page 2
(b)   establish general credit policy and lending criteria
in accordance with the conditions agreed to between the
Government and the Bank;
(c)   approve the annual work program and budget submitted by
the project director;
(d)   approve the salary scale and benefits for project staff
according to the conditions agreed upon between the Govern-
ment and the Bank;
(e)   ensure effective participation by other agencies undertaking
project activities, and approve contracts with such agencies;
(f)   each member would designate an individual at the operational
level of the agency which he represents who would serve as
the contact for the project manager on a daily basis to
further coordination between the Project Unit and the other
participating agencies; and
(g)   appoint a private auditing firm to audit the accounts of
the Project Unit on an annual basis.
Troject Manager
3.        The project manager would be a Bolivian of international experience
with an appropriate background in crop and livestock production, administra-
tion of rural development or agricultural production projects, and in exten-
sion and credit for small farmers. He should speak Aymara or learn Aymara as
a condition of employment. He would be the chief executive officer of the
Project Unit, and his responsibilities would include the following:
(a)   organize and manage the Project Unit;
(b)   execute the project under policy established by the board of
directors in accordance with the conditions agreed to between
the Government and the Bank;
(c)   participate in board meetings;
(d)   prepare the annual work program and budget for approval by
the board and transmission to the Bank for information;
(e)   authorize the disbursement of funds from the project accounts
at the Central Bank;
(f)   prescribe the functions and responsibilities of project staff;
(g)  hire, promote, suspend, and dismiss project personnel;



SCHEDUJLE A
Page 3
(h) recommend to the board the salary scale and benefits for
project staff according to the conditions agreed between the
Government and the Bank;
(i)   implement training programs for project staff and supervise
the training programs established by other agencies for
project staff or beneficiaries;
(j)   provide to farmer groups the technical assistance and
supervision necessary to ensure the successful implementation
of project works, including especially the farm development
plans and irrigation systems, prepare formats for development
plans;
(k) supervise the project work carried out by other agencies
under agreements with the Project Unit;
(1)   work with the individuals designated by the other agencies
participating in the project to ensure coordinated imple-
mentation of project components;
(m)   establish loan regulations and lending procedures in accordance
with the credit policy and criteria established by the board;
(n)   approve farm development plans and subloan applications;
(o)   supervise the collection of interest and principal payments
on subloans;
(p)   recommend to the loan committee the suspension of disbursements
in cases of misuse of loan proceeds by project beneficiaries;
(q)   establish a system for compiling statistics adequate to measure
project impact in technical, financial, and economic and social
terms, particularly at the farm and group levels and for lending
operations, prepare simplified accounts for use by farmer groups
to record the physical and financial results of development
plans; and
(r)   report to the board and the Bank on the progress of project
implementation, in accordance with guidelines established by
each entitv.
The project manager could delegate these functions to other project staff at
his discretion but would remain responsible for their successful execution.



SCHEDULE A
Page 4
Staffing
4.        A nucleus of staff for the Project Unit would be seconded from
existing agencies: an agriculturalist, a livestock technician, and an irriga-
tion engineer from MACA; an agriculturalist and a livestock technician from
BAB; and a group organization specialist (promoter) and a group management
specialist from SNDC. Additional staff would be recruited from outside the
Government. In order to ensure that the Project Unit has adequate staff to
perform its functions, it would reach the following personnel levels by the
dates indicated:
Type Staff                                7/1/76    7/1/77    7/1/78
----------number----------
Agriculturalists                            3          4          5
Livestock Technicians                       3          4          5
Group Officers      <                       2          3          4
Irrigation Engineers                        2          2          2
Agricultural Machinery Technician           1          1          1
Salaries
5.        In order to attract and retain qualified personnel, the Project
Unit would pay the following salaries for the staff level indicated:
Staff Level               Monthly Salary       Annual Salary
…US$ equivalent --------… -
Project Manager                 1,000             12,000
Deputy Manager                    800              9,600
Department Chief                  700              8,400
Technician                        500              6,000
The salaries would be raised periodically to reflect percentage changes in
CORDEPAZ salaries.
November 24, 1975



SCHEDULE B
Page 1
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultants' Terms of Reference
Project Administration
1.        The specialist in project administration should have a background
in agricultural science, preferably with agricultural/forage crop bias. He
should have experience in the management of rural development or agricultural
production projects and at least five years' practical experience in crop
and livestock production. Part of his experience should be in Latin America
and part of it with small farmers, particularly indigenous populations. He
should be able to read, write, and speak Spanish. The principal duties of
the specialist would be to assist the project manager in the following:
(a)   establishment and management of the Project Unit;
(b)   implementation of all components of the project;
(c)   preparation of the annual work plan and budget;
(d)   specification of the terms and conditions of employment,
and qualifications of staff and short-term consultants;
(e)   determination of staff to be seconded from other agencies;
(f)   establishment of detailed salary scales and other compensation
for Project Unit personnel and recruitment of personnel;
(g)   establishment and implementation of training programs for
project staff and project beneficiaries;
(h)   coordination of the work of other consultants to the Project
Unit;
(i)   supervising technicians providing technical assistance to
farmer groups;
(j)   instructing project beneficiaries in techniques such as forage
crop establishment, controlled livestock management systems,
livestock and seed selection, improved crop rotation systems,
and selection of optimal market opportunities;
(k)   approving farm development plans and subloans to finance them;



SCHEDULE B
Page 2
(1)   supervising the implementation of farm development plans
and the collection of subloan payments;
(m)  establishment and maintenance of simple farm records as
required for periodic and regular project evaluation and
monitoring; and
(n) preparation of the progress reports on project implementation.
Groundwater Irrigation
2.        The specialist should have a background in groundwater hydrology
and training in irrigation and drainage. He should have at least five years'
experience in the design, engineering, and implementation of deep-well irri-
gation systems involving internal drainage and training of farmers in water
management. Part of his experience should be in Latin America and part of
it with small farmers, particularly indigenous populations. He should be
able to read, write, and speak Spanish. His principal duties would be to
assist the chief irrigation engineer of the Project Unit in the following:
(a) preparation of a detailed study of the 20 project wells,
involving design, siting, and safe yield;
(b) establishment of the work program, organization, functions
and staffing of the irrigation section within the Project
Unit for supervising the construction of wells and the
operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes;
(c) training of project staff and farmers in all aspects of
irrigation development, including water use management,
operation and maintenance;
(d) preparation of guidelines for the operation and maintenance
of irrigation systems, including water-use management;
(e) design and supervision of installation of wells;
(f) design and supervision of construction of the distribution
systems, and of land levelling;
(g) design and supervision of construction of internal drainage
systems and improvement of natural drains; and
(h) preparation of the detailed construction schedules,
specification of materials and equipment, and supervision of
the Geological Survey of Bolivia in preparing bid documents,
evaluating bids, and awarding contracts for the purchase of
materials and equipment.



SCHEDUIJE B
Page 3
Marketing and Credit
3.        The specialist should have a background in agricultural economics,
with a specialization in commodity marketing. He should have at least five
years' experience in crop and livestock marketing and credit for small farmers
(especially indigenous populations), at least part of which was in Latin
America. He should be able to read, write, and speak Spanish. Ilis principal
duties would be to assist the Project Unit marketing officer in the following:
(a) training and assisting technicians in the promotion, formation
and operation of farmer groups and the performance of their
marketing activities;
(b) training and assisting technicians to provide guidance to
farmer groups on the purchase of inputs and the sale of
output;
(c)  design and implementation of procedures for granting subloans
to farmer groups for investments and working capital, and for
collecting subloan payments;
(d) design and implementation of procedures for collecting debt
service on subloans, Including direct collection through
marketing intermediaries such as PIL;
(e) establishment of a farmgate price recording system for
regular recording of optimum prices available for the crop
and livestock products produced by the project;
(f) development of a market information system suitable for
relaying to farmer groups by circular and/or media pro-
paganda and notices; and
(g) undertaking periodic national market surveys for the guidance
of Government in its establishment of price policy relating
to project products.
Agricultural Machinery
4.        The specialist should have training in agricultural engineering
with a specialization in farm equipment. He should have at least five years'
experience in planning and executing farm equipment operations, at least
part of which was in developing countries. He should be able to read, write,
and speak Spanish. His principal duties would be to assist the Project Unit
agricultural machinery officer in the following:
(a) preparation of specifications and bid documents, evaluation
of bids, and award of contracts for tractor purchases;



SCHEDULE B
Page 4
(b) review of service facilities and spare parts supplies offered
by prospective tractor suppliers;
(c)   training technicians, farmer groups, and contractors in
the planning of tractor operations;
(d)   training farmer groups and contractors in the operation
and maintenance of tractors.
Adult Literacy
5.        The specialist should have training in education and experience
in designing and implementing adult education systems for low-income rural
populations. He should be fluent in Spanish. His principal duties would be
to assist the Project Unit training officer in the following:
(a)  design of an adult literacy system appropriate for project
beneficiaries;
(b)  training of volunteers to perform as adult literacy
instructors;
(c)  formulation of an examination system to measure the impact
of the program and demonstrate progress to participants.
Sanitary Engineering
6.        The specialist in sanitary engineering should have graduate training
in sanitary engineering and also training in the development of groundwater
supplies and basic sanitation facilities. He should have at least five years'
experience with rural water supply projects involving small farmers, parti-
cularly indigenous populations. Part of his experience should be in Latin
America, and he should read, write, and speak Spanish. He would assist the
chief sanitary engineer of the Ministry of Social Security and Public Health
(MPSSP) assigned to the project, in the following:
(a)  establishment of a plan and schedule for the execution of the
well and pit privy program and a system of adequate cost
controls;
(b)  fabricating and transporting the materials and supplies;
(c)  contracting the necessary skilled services;
(d)  supervising the construction of the water supply and
waste disposal facilities;
(e)  providing orientation and education to the inhabitants in
the use of those facilities;



SCHEDULE B
Page 5
(f)  controlling the purchase, receipt, and dispatch of equipment
and supplies;
(g)  maintaining records of the unit costs involved in the
execution of this component of the project;
(h)  preparing periodic progress and maintenance reports;
(i)  preparing a training program for administrative, pro-
fessional and field personnel with a view toward
accelerating the execution of the program; and
(j)  at the end of each year evaluating the progress made and
preparing new targets and programs as necessary.
November 24, 1975






SCHEDULE C
Page 1
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lending Terms and Conditions
Appraisal and Supervision Criteria
1.        The Project Unit would prepare for farmer groups development plans
detailing the existing situation, the investments to be implemented, and the
results of those investments. The analysis would cover all productive
activities undertaken on the groups of farms and jointly (although the sub-
sidiary activities would be treated in summary fashion). The results of
investment would be projected in both physical and financial terms, and
would be presented in both total and incremental quantities. A financial
rate of return, calculated on a discounted cash flow basis, would be
determined for each plan. The amount and terms of subloans, both long-
term and short-term, should correspond to the projected cash flows, parti-
cularly in incremental terms. Production inputs would be financed by
long-term and/or short-term subloans depending on the cash flow, which
investments would be financed by long-term loans.
2.        All farmer groups undertaking irrigated development would be
required to have at least 30 member families and 75 ha of irrigable land
which would be operated as a unit.
3.        Before the purchase of any irrigation equipment or the construction
of any wells, a detailed study (covering design, siting, and safe yield) for
all 20 wells would be prepared by the groundwater irrigation engineer of the
Project Unit and reviewed by the Bank.
4.        Tractors would be included in the investment package only for those
irrigation groups which could demonstrate to the Project Unit that they could
operate and maintain a tractor effectively, and they would be financed for
those contractors which have entered into agreements with irrigation groups
to work at least 75 ha of land for at least five years. However, preferences
for the purchase of tractors for project work would be given to farmer groups
over contractors.
5.        The Project Unit would assist farmer groups in the implementation of
the development plans and in the operation and maintenance of tractors and of
the facilities installed. It would authorize disbursements for the Agricul-
tural Bank (BAB) as the implementation stages of the plans were completed.
6.        The Project Unit would assist farmer groups in maintaining simple
records of activities (in physical and financial terms) for the groups' own
use and also for use in measuring project impact.



SCHEDULE C
Page 2
Subloans to Farmer Groups
1.   Both long-term and short-term subloans granted to farmer groups
(and, in the case of tractors, to private contractors) would
carry an interest rate of 12%.
2.   Contributions to investment cost by subborrowers would be in
the form of labor.
3.   Maturities and grace periods would not exceed the following
(in years):
Type Development                          Maturity        Grace Period
Irrigated Development on Communally-
Operated Land (Model 1)                    20               5
Rainfed Development on Communally-
Operated Land (Model 2)                    20               5
Rainfed Development on Group of
Individual Farms (Model 3)                  5               2
Marketing Development (Model 4)                5              0
Tractor (for contractors)                     6               0
Working Capital                                1              0
4.   Security for subloans would be a chattle mortgage on the crops,
animals, and implements of all members of a group.
Government (Central Bank) Lending to the Agricultural Bank
1.   The interest rate would be 10%.
2.   BAB would be reimbursed for 100% of disbursements on subloans.
3.   BAB would make payments of both interest and principal to the
Central Bank as they were received from subborrowers.
4.   The Central Bank would receive a commission of 1/4% on outstanding
subloan amounts for its services.
5.   Repayments of subloans would be made available for further
lending in the project area for similar purposes.
November 24, 1975



BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Respons-               -- - - -- - -  -- - - --  - - -- --ib7l--       - -  -- - - -- -  - ---…1-     - - ---976-         - -- - -  -- - - --  - 11 7 - -  -- - - --  --7-   - -
Main.Atsivitie_s                                                Agen..y              1       2      3       4  .5  . 6             7      8       9     10      11  .12              I       2      3       4      5  . 6          7  . 
Management and Admiisiitration
Re-rit P-oj-t Unit staff                                   PlY/
Recruit --osutants                                       PU/BonIk
Make project inpieneotation ogre...-ts
with othec gci-ni, BAB, SNC, SNDC, MPSSP,
end GEOBOL                                                 PU
Agricultura1 Davelopn..nt
Irrigated Arco
Organize irrigation groups                               PU.
Appoint coeoo  irrigators                              Parmer Grops            
Purhase tr-ctor                                          PU.                        ..                            . 
Initiate fam  plan preparation                           PU...                                                                   .
I.itf.te lending and farm pian implementation            PU.                        . 
Rainfed Area
Organi.e toinfed grou.ps                                 PU
Initiate Corn plan preporoti-n                           PU.
Initiate lending and farm plan implemetation             PU 
Civil Work Cons.truction
Irrigatiem
Make d.tailed i-vstigations, survey, napping,
planing asd deoign med specifictions                PU/ISOBOL.
Submit gro-nd-oter safe yield stcdie, civil
-oks drawings to TBRD                                  PU.                                                              .       .
Pssrch.ne well eqipmemt                                GEOBOL/PIJ           ,                                                                   i  
Construct nain powe-line system and
coonac tini limes to pmepa                             BPC                                         
Constrct -sell  and wate  tanka                        GEOBOL/PU..                                                                .
Crstruct on-fare distribution systea                   SDEC/PU                                                                           .       .      .I                                                                         -
Level land                                             Pa-e  Groups/PU.                                            . 
Improv  natural drains                                 SMDC/PU                                                              
Roads
Make detail.d invatigationn.  survey, pnnning
and design                                            DNC/PU..                                                              -I
Construct roads                                         SEC/PU.                                    ,       ..
Water Supply
1nvetigate and survey basIc date f or
pr.epa ing  work    plan                              EPSIP                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Submit wor  plan to TEE                                 EUSEP.. 
Recruit skil led lah or, engi.erer, supervisors
nnd  -ait.ry inspectors                              MPSSP                                                        
Construct    wat-r    supply    wells    and   pit   privies  MPSSP                                        .       .      .       .._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Train saitary innpectors                                MPISP.                      .       .      .       .       .      .
H.aIth Centers
nveeigete and survey basic data for plamning
healtb syse                                           MPS
BuIld hoalth centers and rebohilitate hospitn1         SNDC/MPSSP                                                                                                                                                        -
E.tahlieh -bhile unit                                   1QSSP.                                             .
Trein ntaff                                             MPSSP.                              .      .       .
1/  Assu-es loan  fifertiv-n.. by 6/30/76 mud that various ao~t±int. win.  ooatinna throughout
thu project ±.plontation period of 5 imare am 1nacated by opeas-sdodd Jlime.
~/Project adt 
Jonu.or 22, 1976



ANNEX 1
Page 1
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Background
1.        Soils.  The Ingavi Project area covers about 80,000 ha, and lands
were classified in a UNDP survey as follows:
(a)  Land without crop or irrigation limitations                 22,000 ha
(b) Land unsuitable for irrigation because of high water
table but recommended for selected crops                   7,000 ha
(c) Land unsuitable for irrigation because of textural
and structural conditions and/or shallowness of
soil but with fair to good conditions for
specific crops                                             9,000 ha
Subtotal crop land                                     38,000 ha
(d)  Saline land                                                 13,000 ha
(e)  Unsuitable for crop use                                     29,000 ha
Subtotal non-crop land                                 42,000 ha
Total area                                             80,000 ha
2.        Climate.  The project area receives about 500 mm of precipitation
per year, about 60% of which falls during December, January and February.
However, precipitation can vary widely from month to month. Hail storms,
which occur during the summer months (December-February), may cause total
crop loss one year out of 10, according to inhabitants of the area. Average
temperatures vary from 10°C in the summer to 7°C in the winter. Moderate
frosts occur between April and September, from October to March light frosts
may occur but crop damage is minimal.
3.        Land Tenure and Income.  Nearly all of the rural families in the
area own land and 70% have legal titles. Large landholdings (haciendas)
were divided up among individual families as a result of the agrarian reform
of 1952/53, but some land has been maintained for common use. Individual
holdings average about 6 ha. Farmers of the type which would participate in
the project have an estimated total income of about $b 6,900 (US$345) per
year, of which $b 1,500 (US$75) is cash.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Agriculture
4.        Cultivation Practices.  Agriculture in the area is characterized
by a low level of technology. Most plows are made of wood, have a steel
point, and are pulled by a pair of bulls (or a cow and a bull). A few
tractors are in use near the project area and are used primarily for plowing.
Labor is provided by the farm families and some tasks (such as harvesting)
are done collectively. Little irrigation is practiced in the project area
as the available surface water does not lend itself to such use. However,
irrigation with groundwater is used on vegetable and forage crops at the
Patacamaya experiment station with positive results, and irrigation is
used with success for the production of forage crops on a few farms near
the project area.
5.        Inputs.  Seed inputs are supported by a national seed program, and
a quality control laboratory and a seed processing plant are in operation in
Cochabamba.  However, because of inadequate local supply the major proportion
of alfalfa and fescue seed has to be imported. All chemical fertilizers,
insecticides, and fungicides must also be imported, but they are generally
not used in the project area. All imported inputs are available through
regular commercial outlets. As a rule, organic fertilizer is applied only
to land producing potatoes since the supply is generally too limited to permit
use on other crops.   The traditional practice is to leave part of the land
in fallow for about six to eight years to permit natural regeneration of soil
fertility.
6.        Principal Crops.  The principal crops grown in the project area
are potatoes (13% of cultivated land), barley and oats (69%) and quinoa
(17%). There are also few small plots of alfalfa. There is no strict crop
rotation, although potatoes are generally grown on land newly activated
from the fallow condition. Quinoa and barley are interplanted generally with
potato.
7.        The present system of potato cultivation is not conducive to good
crop yields. Seed, which is small, is generally kept under poor storage
conditions from harvest to planting time, and seeding rates are low. By
using a better variety such as Sani Imillia, larger seeds (40 to 50 mm in
diameter), and higher seeding rate (1,200 kg/ha), yields of 7 tons/ha are
being achieved in the project area as compared to an average of 4 tons/ha;
with adequate fertilization and supplementary irrigation, yields of 14
tons/ha are being achieved in adjacent areas.
8.        Barley and oats are grown extensively for forage in the project
area, although barley is more hardy and is the more widely grown of the
two. Inadequate seed bed preparation, seeds planted too deeply in the
soil, low seeding rates (50 kg/ha) and low levels of soil fertility result
in yields of 3 tons/ha dry matter. The better farmers have demonstrated,
however, that improved bed preparation and higher seeding rates up to 70
kg/ha increase the yield of barley to 4 tons/ha dry matter.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
9.        Quinoa (chenopodium quinoa) is a typical Andean drought-resistant
crop, but commonly grown varieties have a high saponine content and are
relatively low yielding (0.6 tons/ha). A higher yielding variety (1.0 tons/ha)
has been developed recently at the Patacamaya Research Station and seed is
now being produced. Trials have shown that neither supplementary irrigation
nor fertilization is economically justified.
10.       The amount of water available to alfalfa and the shortness of
the rainy season (December through February) limits yields of this crop.
However, recent research using supplemental irrigation with 50 introduced
varieties has revealed several new high-yielding types, among which are
Saranac New York, Ranger, Unita, Williamsburg Common, Cherokee, Vernal
and Moapa. With fertilization and irrigation, farmers in areas adjacent
to the project area are obtaining yields of 7 tons/ha dry matter using
these varieties.
11.       There is no commercial vegetable production in the project area,
but it could be introduced readily since the experiment stations at Belen
and Patacamaya have identified the more adaptable varieties and recommended
planting dates, fertilizer, and irrigation and cultivation practices.
12.       Marketing.  The project area is especially well situated for
marketing of products because of its proximity (about 20 km) to La Paz with
its population of 600,000 and growing demand for agricultural products.
Most of the output, however, is used on the farm.  Transportation of any
produce that is to be sold is generally by donkey, except for potatoes which
are sold mostly to middlemen (truckers) who transport them to La Paz. The
La Paz market has adequate demand for potatoes and for vegetables such as
lettuce, radishes, carrots, cabbage, cauliflower and garlic, which can be
produced in the project area.
Livestock
13.       Major animals in the project area are cattle, used principally
for farm traction, with some milk production for family consumption; sheep,
which provide cash income and wool for clothing; pigs, usually consumed
at farm level; and poultry, maintained for subsistence, with a limited amount
of surplus production sold through the local markets.
14.       Parasite infestation and brucellosis are the main health hazards
in the altiplano for cattle, compounded by the effects of altitude on
reproduction and milk performance. Sheep, on the other hand, are well
acclimatized to altiplano conditions, their main health problem being
parasite infestation. Animal health problems would be controlled under the
project through vaccination and parasite-control programs carried out by
the farmer groups under the supervision of the Project Unit.
15.       Production Patterns.  Productivity is low due to the scarcity
and quality of natural grazing resources and subsequent poor nutritional
standards. Other contributing factors include the health hazards (para 14).



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Despite these conditions, however, the farmer is adept at maintaining sub-
sistence levels of production in all but the most severe years. Annual
offtake of cattle is estimated at 10%, with milk yields from native cattle
at about 3 liters/day (200-day lactation). Offtake of sheep is estimated
at about 35%.
16.       Although commercial dairy production has never developed significantly
in the altiplano, some pioneer operations have established themselves eco-
nomically and provide the base for an expanded industry. Improvements
generally have included the introduction of cultivated pasture--mainly alfalfa
and fescue--and the use of improved breeds. Acclimatized Friesian and Brown
Swiss dairy animals are becoming increasingly available to smallholders,
mainly through surpluses from commercial farms, the experiment station at
Belen, and from Peru.
17.       Sheep generally do not compete with cattle as cattle are maintained
on hay and crop residues, while sheep tend to be grazed on the fallow land
and communal areas. Overstocking of all areas is rife. Increases in sheep
production have been based on the introduction of cultivated pasture and the
use of improved breeds such as Corriedale, Rambouillet, Targhee, and Junin.
18.       Livestock Marketing.  Animals are generally sold in small local
markets by the head. Cattle sell for about $b 20/kg (US$1.00/kg) carcass
weight and sheep for about $b 25/kg (US$1.25/kg). Carcass weights range
from about 180 to 250 kg for cattle and 16 to 25 kg for sheep. Prices,
however, fluctuate with seasonal supply.
19.       Milk Marketing.  The small amount of milk marketed by farmers in
the project area is sold to the Industrialized Milk Plant (PIL) in La Paz.
The plant capacity is 30,000 liters of milk/day, of which only about 18,000
liters/day are used. Of this output, about 16,000 liters comes from recon-
stituted milk processed from dried milk power and butter oil, and the balance
is fresh milk. PIL is attempting to replace the reconstituted milk with fresh
milk. PIL pays about $b 3.60 (US$0.18) per liter for milk at farmgate.
Farmers can also convert milk to cheese and sell it in the local market.
Development Models
20.       The proposed development is based on the activities of groups 1/
of farmers in order to take advantage of increases in scale and to make more
efficient use of technical assistance personnel and credit. The models
represent the principal modes of development anticipated, which envisage
1/   The term "group" is used rathern than "cooperative" since the latter
has a specific legal connotation in Bolivia. All groups would be
eligible to participate in the project, whether or not they were
registered as cooperatives.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
improvements in the key problem areas of input organization and purchasing,
production systems and management, and output marketing. They are based
on traditional methods of farm organization and cooperation currently
practiced in the project area. In each case, farmers would be members of
groups averaging about 50 members each. They would develop their own
individual farms and would also participate in joint activities to varying
degrees. Model 1 and Model 2 represent the highest level of joint activity,
in which blocks of land averaging 75 ha each would be operated on a communal
basis.  These blocks would be formed from land that currently is operated
communally or from contributions of the group members. Both types of
communal action already exist in the project area. Model 3 represents a
lower level of joint activity in which development would encompass both
crop and livestock operations but would occur only on individual farms,
with some facilities owned and operated in common. Model 4 represents
the farmers at the lowest level of joint activity who would be involved in
crop development only and whose only common facility would be storage.
21.       At present, each farmer has about 6 ha, of which 0.3 ha is in
potatoes, 0.4 ha in quinoa, 1.8 ha in barley or oats, 0.1 ha in other crops,
and 3.4 ha in fallow and native pasture. The rotation is one year of pota-
toes, one of barley, and one of quinoa. The barley is grazed and also cut
for hay. Livestock include about 3 cows and a bull, 2 donkeys for hauling,
20 sheep, and a few pigs and chickens. Yields of 4 tons/ha for potatoes,
0.6 tons/ha for quinoa, and 3 tons/ha dry matter for barley give the farmer
a current annual production of 1.5 tons of potatoes, 0.2 tons of quinoa, and
5.4 tons dry matter of barley. Annual total net income is about $b 6,900
(US$345).
22.       Through the use of improved seed, additional fertilizer, stud ser-
vices from improved bulls, and better cultivation and animal husbandry
practices, yields on individual farms can be raised to 7 tons/ha for potatoes
and 4 tons/ha dry matter for barley which, together with an increase in the
cropping intensity, would increase production to 3.5 tons of potatoes, 0.4
tons of quinoa, and 8.0 tons dry matter of barley.
23.       Irrigated Development on Communally-Operated Land (Model 1 - Tables
1-8). In this model, 50 farmers would develop their individual farms and, in
addition would each contribute 1.5 ha of currently fallow land to form a block
of 75 ha to be operated on a communal basis. Development on the 75-ha
block would be based on potatoes, dairy cattle, some vegetables, and some
sheep fattening. Stud service would be provided to group members for
individual herds of both cattle and sheep. Investments would extend over
a three-year period and would include an irrigation system (well, storage
tank and distribution and drainage systems); a tractor; pasture establish-
ment (alfalfa and fescue); livestock purchases (bulls, native cows, improved
cows, and rams); handling (stable and corral), watering, and storage
facilities and administration buildings.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
24.       Within the 75-ha block of land, 50.5 ha would be irrigated on a
rotating basis. Crops grown on the irrigated land would be potatoes (15 ha),
alfalfa/fescue (40 ha), and vegetables (0.5 ha). Barley (24.5 ha) would
be grown on the non-irrigated portion. The alfalfa/fescue and barley would
be grazed and also mown for hay. The rotation would involve one year of
potatoes, two of barley, one of potatoes, one of barley, and six of alfalfa/
fescue.
25.       Two Friesian or Brown Swiss bulls would be purchased to service
the group herd and also to provide breeding service for the cows maintained
by members on their individual farms. Sixty-two native cows and six im-
proved cows (Friesian or Brown Swiss) would be purchased during the invest-
ment period to form the basis of the group herd, which would grow to a
maximum of 128 head by the eighth year. Two Corriedale rams would be
purchased to provide stud service to sheep in individual farm herds of
members. In addition a maximum of 78 sheep would be purchased for fattening
on a seasonal basis.
26.       Improved potato seed (available through commercial outlets) would
be used. It would be treated before planting and the seeding rate would be
increased. Insecticide would be applied to land planted to potatoes and
vegetables. Fertilizer requirements would be met primarily by using manure
from the dairy herd, supplemented by chemical fertilizer for potatoes,
vegetables, and alfalfa/fescue.
27.       Tractor power would be used for some land preparation, planting,
cultivating, harvesting, and transportation. Either a tractor would be
purchased by the group, or tractor services would be hired from contractors.
Donkeys would be used for at least some of the on-farm hauling and trans-
portation of cash crops (including milk) to local markets or to the nearest
road for truck pickup.
28.       Potato yields are expected to increase from 4 tons/ha at present
to 12 tons/ha over a 3-year period. Barley yields would increase from 3
tons/ha dry matter to 4 tons over 2 years. The yield of alfalfa/fescue
would reach 7 tons/ha dry matter by the fourth year. Milk output per cow
would rise from the present 3 liters/day for 200 days to 8 liters/day for
240 days over 8 years as a result of genetic upgrading, better nutrition,
improved management practices, and release from drafting chores.
29.       At full development, annual production of potatoes would reach
355 tons, vegetables 15 tons, alfalfa/fescue 280 tons dry matter (approximately
half of production would be grazed), barley 498 tons dry matter (with half
grazed), milk 102,000 liters, beef 6 tons, and mutton 3 tons. Potatoes
would be stored on-farm to take advantage of late season price increases.
Storage would also be provided for the first alfalfa/fescue cutting to pro-
tect the hay during the remainder of the rainy season.
30.       Since potatoes for home consumption would continue to be grown
on the individual farms of group members, all of the output of the group
operation would be marketed, with the exception of the forage crops fed to



ANNEX 1
Page 7
livestock. A portion of potatoes would still be sold in local markets, but,
increasingly, sales in larger quantities would be made direct to La Paz. Milk
would be sold to the PIL dairy plant in La Paz, although some might be convert-
ed to cheese, depending on relative prices. Annual total net income received
by participating farmers would reach $b 22,400 (US$1,120) by year 11.
31.       Rainfed Development on Communally-Operated Land (Model 2 -
Tables 9-15). This model is similar to Model 1 except that the land would
not be irrigated and no vegetables would be grown. The 75-ha block of
land would be planted to potatoes (15 ha), alfalfa/fescue (30 ha), and
barley (30 ha). The rotation would involve one year of potatoes, two of
barley, one of potatoes, one of barley, and six of alfalfa/fescue. Since
production would be lower than that in Model 1, the size of the livestock
herd also would be smaller. Livestock investment would include two bulls
(Friesian or Brown Swiss), six improved cows (Friesian or Brown Swiss), 27
native cows, and two Corriedale rams. The cattle herd would reach a maximum
of 60 head by the eighth year, and a maximum of 18 sheep would be purchased
for fattening on a seasonal basis.
32.       Oxen would be used to provide the main source of power for this
operation, although tractor services would be used for planting alfalfa/
fescue. Yields would increase from 4 to 7 tons/ha for potatoes, 3 to 4
tons/ha dry matter for barley, and 3 to 8 liters/day for milk. Alfalfa/
fescue would produce 2 tons/ha dry matter. Total annual production at full
development would be 280 tons of potatoes, 60 tons dry matter of alfalfa/
fescue (about half of the forage crop production would be grazed), 520 tons
dry matter of barley, and 58,000 liters of milk, 5.6 tons of beef, and 2 tons
of mutton. Annual total net income received by participating farmers would
reach $b 16,400 (US$820) by year 10.
33.       Rainfed Development on Group of Individual Farms (Model 3 -
Table 16-18). This model reflects the operation of a group of farmers who
did not wish to work a portion of their land in common, preferring to
maintain their individual farming operations, but who were willing to group
themselves for the purpose of utilizing technical assistance and assuming
joint obligation for credit. The types of investments would be the same
as for Model 2, except that no improved cows would be purchased and the
only facilities operated in common would be the bull and ram breeding
services, and storage.
34.       On each individual farm of 6 ha, the cropping pattern would change
from a typical 0.3 ha of potatoes, 0.4 ha of quinoa, 1.8 ha of barley, 0.1
ha of other crops, and 3.4 ha of native pasture/fallow to 0.5 ha of potatoes,
0.6 ha of quinoa, 1.0 ha of alfalfa/fescue, 2.0 ha of barley, 0.1 ha of other
crops, and 1.8 ha of native pasture/fallow. The rotation would be one year
of potatoes, one of barley, and one of quinoa. Each farmer's cattle herd
would change from three cows and a bull before development to three cows at
full development. The number of sheep would remain the same (20), but eight
per year would be fattened.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
35.       Yields would increase from 4 to 7 tons/ha for potatoes, 3 to 4 tons/ha
dry matter for barley and 3 to 4 liters/day for milk. Total annual production
at full development would be 175 tons of potatoes, 18 tons of quinoa, 400 tons
dry matter of barley (about half of forage crop production would be grazed),
36,000 liters of milk, 5 tons of beef, and 2 tons of mutton. Annual total
net income per farmer would reach $b 13,600 (US$680) by year eight.
36.       Marketing Development (Model 4 - Table 19-21).  This operation is
the same as Model 3, except that no bulls or rams would be purchased and the
only joint facility would be storage. Nevertheless, livestock development
would be feasible on the basis of forage crop development and bull and ram
stud services purchased from other groups in the area. Thus the cropping
pattern, yields, and annual production would be the same as for Model 3, with
the exception of milk production which would rise to only 18,000 liters/year
because of less intensive livestock development than in Model 3. Annual
total net income per farmer would reach $b 12,000 (US$600) by year seven.
November 24, 1975



ANNEX U
TAbl. 1
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A"ri-Ilt-re sod Livestock DUvelopeePt
Model 1 - Irrig-ted Develnopent on Cts=uplIy-Uperered Land
Ot-Farm Invesomert Costs
Investrest Period                      Total                      U.S.                               C op Iotl
oves=enotl Item                                  Unit       Urit Cost         Yese 1             Year 2            Year 3          Units    Total Cost   Etoitato1t    F.E. COnipOntot           Cottibtiho
($b)      (Ne.)  (Aoouont)   (Ne.)  (A=.ount)  (No.) (Aroont)    (No.)    ($b '000)          (US) '000)    (-h)    (A=-ot)    (E)  (Asount)
(S'b000)           ($b'h00)          ($b'000)                                                     (CS'000)          (Us$'OUU)
A. PhYSICAL INPUTS
B.ilditgr
Offico  and troreil                      Uiits          24,000       1       12.0                                              I            12.0          0.6        20         0.12      Bt       0.48
Prodoce storagr                              "         50:000        1       25.0       -         -        -        -          1            25.U          1.25       20         0.25      g0       1.0
Rouser                                       "         25 000        1       12.5       -         -        -        -          1            12.5          0.625      20         0.125    80        0.5
Garage workshop                              0          20,000       1       10.0       -         -        -        -          I            10.0          0.5        20         0.1       80       0.4
Asse: tlI coon                               "          16,000       1         8.0      -         -        -        -          1             8.0          0.4        2U         0 MS      80       0.32
Sobtotal                                                            67.5                                                          67.5          3.375                 0.675              2.7
lntok Handling Fattiltier
Dairy  nod cheep shed                     orits        105,000       -       52.5       -         -        -        -          1            52.5          2.625      20         0.525    80        2.1
Wat2rreg PsoOlittee ileadnoaroos-
Oficr and teotral b.ildings              'tsters       U,U00U       1         5.0       -        -        -        -          1             5.0          0.25       20         0.05      80       0.2
Tanks and tro-shs                         crits         25,0U       1        12.5      -         _        -        _          1            12.5          0.625      20         0.125    80        0.5
Well                                         '           6,800       1         4.7       -        -        -        -          1             4.7          0.235      10         0.011    90        0.101
Subtotal                                                            22.2                                                          22.2          1.110                 0.106              0.U0
dethin-ry
MNotorcycles                               ant           9 000       1         9.0      -         -        -        -          1             9.0          0.45      100         0.45       -
Bicycles                                     "          3.600        3        3.6       -         -        -        -          I             3.6          0.18      100         0.10       -
Sobtotel                                                            12.6                                                          12.6          2.63                  0.63       -         _
Pasture Ose-blish-eat
Plongi and harrwing                       ha                91     40         3.6       -         -        -        -        40              3.6          0.10       20         0.036    80       0.144
Sred                                      kg/he            860     40        34.4       -         -        -        -        40             34.4          1.02      100         1.72       -         -
Ftetili-er                                   "             500     40        20.-                                            4              20.0          1.00      100         1.00       -
Plarring                                  ha               100     40         4.0       -         -        -        -        40              4.0          0.2        20         0.04      80       0.16
Cotting aod etorage                       ha               900       -        -         -         -        -        -          -             -            -           -                   I 100
Sto-sge shed                             c1it          18,000        1        9.0                                              I _  _  _   1  9.0         0.45       20         0.09      80       0.36
Rosenditg                                pesos/ha          800       -         -       10         8       10        8         20            16.0          0.8       100         -          -       -
Subtorel                                                            71.0                8                 8                       87.0          4.35                  3.69       -       0,66
Tools and Eqoiptnnt                          coit         10,000       1        10.0        -                                     1          OU.0          0.5       100         0.5
T.tel                                                             234.0                 0                 8                      034.0         11.7                   6.21               5.49
B.  LUVESTOCK PURCRASES
BRlls                                       head          12,000       1        12.0       1       12        -        -          2            24,0          1.2        50         0.6       50       0.0
Unprtved dairy  ca                             "           8,0U0       5       40.0        1        8        _        _          6            48.0          2.4        50         1.2       50       1.0
LoosE cos                                                  4 6,000     9        36.0     32       128       21       84         62           248.0         12.4         -         -        100      12.4
Ra-o                                           "             800       -         -         -        -        2        1.6        2             1.6          0.08        -         -        100       OU
To-al                                                              80.0               148                85.6                    321.6         16.08                  1.8                14.28
Utel1 PFysita1 end Li-ssook                                        294.0              156                03.6                    003.6         27.18                  7.3                19.44
C. TRACTOR AND IMPLEMENTSZ/
Toattor, 72 HP                              unit             330       1      330.0       -         -        -        -          1           330.0         16.5         -         -          -        -
Plough                                         "              60       1       60.0       -         -        -        -          1            60.0          3.0         -         -          -        -
Di-c h.rros                                    "              60       1        60.0      -         -        -        -          I            60.0          3.0         -         -          -
Koer                                           "              34       1        34.0      -         _        _        -          1            34.0          1.7
Carts,2                                        "              68       1        6a.0       -        -        -        -          1            68.0          3.4
Sptre part, 20                               Set             11 .      1       1104       -         -        -        _          1           110.4          5.52        -                    _        _
Sabrotal                                                          662.4                                                          662.4         33.12       90        29.8       10        3.31
D.  IRRIGATION FACILITIES
Welt                                         unit        507,000       1       507.0       -        -        -        -         1            507.0         25.35       85        20.26      15        5.07
Pomp sod egite                                 '         11,6 000      1       116.0 C              _        _        -         1            116.0          5.6        91         5.23       9        0.57
Raner tack                                     '         130 00        I       130,U       -        -        -        -         1            130.0          6.5        52         3.38      48        3.12
Ireigation xyste"                                        410,000       1       123.0       _        _        _        _         1            123.0          6.15        -         -        100        6.15
Urnirge inproveteot                                     330,00        1       264.0       -        -        -        -         I            264.0         13.2        60         7.92      40        5.28
Land levellin                                             75,000                 - -           -                      -         I-                                                           -
Unoineeniog coete                              '          92,000       1       92.0       -         -        -        -         1             92.0          4.6        27         1.242    73         3.358
Soubeotal                                                       1,232.0                                                        1,292.0         tE57                  38.05               23.55
Irrigation physticl contlodenties (15.)                                       185.0                                  _                      185.0          9.2                   5.78                3.53
E.  TOTAL ONTiESTMr00TS                                                          2,401.0               156               93.6                  2,650.0           1.32      62        81.36      38       50.65
It  F-aIer-cotntibutitas lebor estimnted at 507 of rev building vla.  At-1ca sh paid not is entered.
2/  Sen Annex 1, Toble 2 for derails.
Cotober 7, 1973



ANNEX 1
Table 2
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 1 - Irrigated Development on Communally-Operated Land
Details of Tractor Investment and Operating Costs
Cost          Cost           Foreign Exchhnge             Local Currency
$b '000)   ('000 US$)        %            Amount          %          Amount
MACHINERY UNIT
Tractor, 72 HP - 9,000 hrs. over 6 yrs.                           330
Implements, 5,000 hrs. over 6 yrs.
1 x Plow x 4 discs x 20"                                         60
1 x Disc harrows x 20 discs                                      60
1 x Mower                                                        34
2 x Carts x 2.5 tons                                             68
Sub-total machinery                                               552
Spare parts, 20%                                                  110.4
Total                                                           662.4         32.21          90%          22.99          10%          3.22
OPERATING COSTS
Diesel fuel, 7 1/hr @ 0.95 pesos/l x 1,500 hrs/yr x 6 yrs.    59.8
Lubricating oil, 17 1/150 hrs @ 13.4 pesos/i                       13.6
Engine oil, 0.03 1/hr @ 13.4 pesos/l                                3.6
Oil for injection paunp & govenor, 0.25 1/150 hrs. Q
13.4 pesos/l                                                      0.3
Transmission oil, 26.5 1/150 hrs @ 16.6 pesos/I                    26.4
Air filter oil, 2.5 1/150 hrs @ 13.4 pesos/l                        2
Hydraulic oil, 3.3 1/200 hrs @ 20 pesos/l                           2.9
Fuel & oil filters, 0.04 pesos/hr                                   0.5
Grease, 0.5 kg/10 hrs @ 12 pesos/kg                                 5.4
Service charges, mechanics @ 5,000 pesos/yr/tractor                30.0
Total                                                           144.5
Total/year                                                       24
INCOME
9,000 hrs. 4 125 pesos/hr, over 6 yrs.                          1,125
Per year 4 1,500 hrs/yr.                                          187.5
ASSUMPTIONS
Tractor Use
1,500 hrs/yr./tractor, used as follows for modelling purposes;
model 1                                                            Model 2                    All Family Farms Including Models 3 + 4
Potatoes                           15   ha x  10 hrs =  150  15ha x 10 =  150                 200 farms x 2% hrs = 500 hrs/tractor
Vegetables                          0.5    x  10      =    5                  --              sufficient for potato  ploughing
Barley                             20      x   4      =   80  30ha x  4 =  120
Pasture establ.                   40       x   6      =  240                  --
Pasture maint.                    40       x   2      =   80                  --
Irrigation distribution system  40         x   1      =   40                  --
Mowing and cartage                100 hrs                100                  --
General use                      145 hrs                 145                 130
Approximate total use                                 =  600 hrs/tractor + 400 hrs/tractor + 500 hrs/tractor
=        1,500 hrs/tractor set
Tractor Income                                       $ b
Model 1 (owners),            600 brs                   --
Model 2, contract,           400 hrs 4 $ b  125  50,000
Family farms, contract       500 hrs 4 $ b  125  62,500
1,500 hrs             112,500
October 21, 1975



ANNEX I
Table 3
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture end Livestock Deveisonent
Model I - Irrigated Deveilolpet on Communally-Operated Land
Herd Prnjeitiee
Herd Values                  OpeniBg -------------------------- End of Year (Juy - June)----------------
Category                              Unit      Years 0-4         Years 5-20           Number               1            2            3           4                        6             7         8-20
HERD COMPOSITION                          Heed
Bulls                                     "          12,000           12,000                 1                 1            2           2            2           2            2            2            2
Cows (Breeding)                           "           4,000            8,000                14                14          42           61           54          55           60           60           60
Calves (bern daring your)                 "              600              650                                 i2           10          30           43          38           40           44           44
Heifers 9-24 months                       "           5,000            5,000                                   _            5           5           14          20           12           12           12
Cull Cows                                 "           4,000            4,000               _                   2            2           6            9           8            9            9            9
TOTAL HEAD                                                                                15                23          62         104          122          123         124           028         128
Animal Units                        A.E.s               --               --               15                16          49           70          75           80          80            80           80
Pur-hase sheep for fattening           Head              180              200               --                --            0          78           78          78           78           78           78
Brooding rams foe seereie                                650              800               --                --            0           2            2           2            2            2            2
Sheep asi=ai units                    A.U.s               --               --               --                _             0           4            4           4            4            4            4
TOTAL ANIMAL UNITS                                                                        15                16          50           74          79           84          84            84           84
TIORTALITIES
Bulls                                   lead              --               --               --                __          __           __           __          __           __           __           __
Cgves"                                                    --               --               --                --            0           1            3           2            2            2            2
Calves                                    "               --               --               --                --            2           1            3           2            2            2            2
Heifers (9-24 months)                     "               --               --               --                --           --          --           --           I            i  
TOTAL CATTLE DEATHS                                    - --             --               --                 --           3            2                        5           5             5           5
sleep                                    "--                               --               - -               --           1            2           2            2           2             2            2
PURCHASES
Bulls                                  Head          12,000           16,000                 1                --            1           0            1          --           --           --           --
Improved coos                             "           8,000                --                5                 1           0            0          --           --          --            --           --
Criollo cows                              "           4,000                --                9                 1          31           21          --           -           --            --           --
TOTAL CATTLE PURCHASES                 "                                                 15                  2          32          21            1           --          --            --          --
Sh-ep fon  farte_ing                      "              180             200                                  --          --           78          78           78          78            78           78
Breeding  -ms                             "              650              800                                 --          --            2          __           __            1            1           __
TOTAL SHEEP PURCHASES                                                                                                                                                      I - -  --  79  28  78  79  79  78
SALES
Bull calves                            Head             200               250                                  5           5           14          19           17          18            20           20
Surplus . eiers (0 year)"                             3 000            4,000                                              _            __                        1           3             8            9
Call cows                                             4 000            4,500                                   2            2           6            9           8            9            9            9
Cull  lOheif-   (2-3 years)               '           2,500            3,000 0-                                            --          --           --           I            1            1            1
Cull bulls                                            5,000            6,000 _
.SUB- TOTAL                                                                                                  7           7           20          29           27          31            38          39
Fat sheep                                                230              270                                  0            0          76           76          76           76           76           76
Cull runs                                 "             230               270                                  0            0           0           --          --            1            1           --
TECOiNICAL COEFPOCUENTS
Calves burn                               7.           _               _                                      90          75           75           75          75           75           75           75
Mortalities
(a)  Calves                              X            --               --                                     15          15           10          10           10          10            10          10
(b)  Adults                              %             _               _                                       5           4           4            4            4           4             4           4
(c)  sheep                               %             _               __                                      3           3            3           3            3           3             3           3
Cull s
(a)  Bulls                               %                             __                                     15          15           15          15           15          15            15          15
(b)   Cows                               %            _                                                       15          15           15          15           15          15            15          15
(c)  Heimers (2-3 yes.)                  %            --               --5                                                 5            5           5            5           5             5           5
Cows serviced/bull                     Cass/ball        --               --                                     30/1         30/1        30/1         30/1        30/1         30/1         30/1         30/1
Ewes serviced/can                      Ewes/rams         --               --                  50/1              50/1         50/1        50/1         50/1        50/1         50/1         50/1         50/1
Percestcows & total hbrd                    %           --               --                                     93           72          57          43           48          48            46           46
No. covs in milk                         Head           __                                                      12           12          30           43          38           40           44           44
Milk yield/cow/annum                     litres  3 litres/day 1/  3,4,6,8 1./day 2/                            720         720          720          720         720          960         1440         1920
St-okisg rate                            A.U.           --                                                      16           50          74           79          84           84           84           84
Carryiog eapacity                        A.U.            --              --                                     16           50          84           84          84           84           84           84
Offtake rtoe                                %           _                __                                     __           20          26           26          26           26           29           32
Extriction rate                             b            --               --                                    _            20          20           20          25           25           26           28
Sheep gain/day                            Cgms.      2%kg/oth         3kg/mth                                    0.085        0.085       0.085        0.085       0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1
PRODUCTION EATA
Beef Production (Cold dressed weight)
C"il eaws                              kg.           165                                                     330         330          990        1485         1320        1485          1485         1485
Call hulls                               "           400                                                                                          400
Cull hoifers 2-3 yen.                    "           160              240                                     --          --           --         400           --           --           --           --
Sub-ctotl                                M/tons                                                                    .33         .33          .99        1.845       1.56         1.725        1.725        1.725
Must  prodaction                        M/tons           12k              14k                                   --           --             .912        .912       1.064        1.064         1.064       1.064
Bilk production                       '000/Con                                                                   8.64         8.64       21.6         30.96       27.36        38.4         63.36        84.48
1/ Present yields are based on a survey by CORDEPAZ.
2/  Mission estimates - as pereentage Fl eoss in the herd increases and responds to alfalfa/fescue fCed and impact of pr-jeet unit extension
activities on-farm management.
October 21, 1975



ANNEX I
Table 4
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Model I - Irrigated Development o Co-.unally-Operatod Land
Crop Projection - Sales
Before      -------------------------------------- Year ---------------------------------
Category                                      Unit    Years 0-4    Years 5-20               Development    1            2          3          4          5          6          7         8-20
/ha           /h.          has
CROP PROJECTIONS
Cash Crop
Pot.toes-/                                tons    7,10,12,12          12         15         20           105        150        180        180        180        180        180         180
Quin.a    2/                                "        0.6                -         -          3.7          -          -          -          -           -          -         -           -
Vegetables2                               units    20,000         20,000          0.5        -            -      10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000
Papalioss and oces                        tons       0.6                -         -          0.6          -          -          -          -           -          -         -           -
Wheat                                       "        0.7                -         -          0.4         --           -         -           -          -          -          -          -
Forage "rops
Oats  )3/                                   "     3,4,4,4              4         24.5       77            73         98         98         98          98         98        98          98
Barley )
Alf.lfn/fe-u4"                                    0,3,6,7               7        35          -            -         105        210        245         245        245        245        245
Selling    Prices              --------------------------------------------  $b    '000    --------- ----------------------------
($b)
SALES
Cash Crops
Potatoes                                    "        3,000         3,000                    60           315        450        540        540        540        540        540        540
Vegetables                               units           1.5            1.5                  -            -          15         15         15         15         15         15          15
Papeli.as, ocas                            tons          -                                   2.4
Quinoa                                      "            -_                                 11.1
Wheat                                       "            -             -                     1.6          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -
Subtotal                                                                        75           315        465        555        555        555        555        555        555
Surplus iorage Crops
Alfalfa hay                               ton        1,200         1,200                     -            -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -
Cereal hay                                  "          900           900
Subtotal
Livestock Products
Bull calves                               head         200           250                     -             1.0        1.0         2.8       3.8         4.25      4.5        5.0         5.0
Surplus heifers                                      1,000         1,100                     --                                            -           1.1        3.3        8.8         9.9
Cull cows                                            4,000         4,500                     _             8.0        8.0       24.0       36.0       36.0       40.5       40.5        40.5
Cull heifers                                "          600           650                     --                                            -           0.65       0.65        0.65       0.65
Cull bulls                                  "        5,000         6,000                     -            -          -          -           6.0       -          -          -           -
Sheep                                                  230           270                     -            -          -          16.6       18.72      18.72      18.72      18.72       18.72
Fresh milk                                liters    3.56           3.56                      -            30         30         76.9      110.2       94.72    136         225.56    300.0
Bull services                        service/cow   50.0           50.0                       --                       0.5        1.0        1.5        1.5        1.5         1.5        1.5
Rem services                         service/e-e  10.0            10.0                                    -           0.2        0.2        0.6        0.6        0.6        0.6         0.6
Ssbtotal                                                                         -            40         40        121        174        160        209        300        377
Tractor Income5/
Hire 900 hrb/year                         hours        125           125                     -           112.5      112.5      112.5      112.5      112.5      112.5      112.5      112.5
Total                                                                           75           467        617        788        841        827        876        967      1,044
1/  CORDEPAZ, "Proyecto do Desarrollo Rural", La Pas, 1974. Mission estioates besed on field date collected by government agencies.
2/ Ide-, Annex 3, page 16.
3/ Ide-, Annex 3, pegs 8.
4/  Wood, J.H. "The Performance of Some Introduced Species of Forage on the Altiplano of Bolivia", La Pas, 1975.
Zuazo, M.D., "Cultivation of Forages in the Altiplano", Banco Agricola de Bolivia, 1974.
CORDEPAZ, "Proyecto do Desarrollo Rural", 1974.
5/ Seo Annen 1, table 2, for details.
Jucu.ry,- 22, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 5
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricult.re and Livestock Development
Model 1 - Irrigated Development on Comuonallv-Operated Lend
Crop Projection - Operating Expenses
($b '000)
Before        -------------------------------------- Year -------------------------------
Category                                       Unit    No./Year          Unit Value       Development        I          2          3          4           5          6           7       8-20
OPERATING EXPENSES
Administration
Parn manager                          man/years        1                10,000             -           10          10         10         10         10          10         10         10
Clerk  torekeeper                        "             1                 9,000             -            9          9           9          9          9           9          9          9
Dairy and livestock foreman              "             1                 7,000            -             7           7          7          7          7           7          7          7
Subtotal                                                                      -            26         26         26          26         26         26         26          26
Hired Labor
Milkers                                  "             2                 6,000             -           12          12         12         12         12          12         12         12
Subtotal                                                                      -            12         12         12          12         12         12         12          12
Animal Health
Dipping                                head            -                    1.20
Drenching                                "             -                    2.40
Minerals                                  "            -                    8.29)          -            3           3          4          5          5           5          5          5
Vaccine                                  "                                  4.00
Veterinary services                   visits           6             400/visit
Subtotal                                                                      -             3          3          4           5          5          5          5           5
Maintenance and Replacements
Pastures                              man/days       10/ha              25
Buildings                                              -       2% of new.value             -            -           1          1          1          1           1          1
Internal reads                    tractor boars        -
Stack handling facilities                              -       2% of new value             -            -           1          I          1          1           1          1          1
Watering facilities (H.Q.)                             -       27. of new value            -            -           0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1
Motercycles                        replace in yr.5   -                   9,000             -            -          -           -          -          -           -          -          -
General                           per onnea           -                  -                -            10         10         10          10         10         10          10         10
Subtotal                                                                      -            10         12.1       12.1        12.1       12.1       12.1        12.1       12.1
Replacements Livestock
Bulls                                  head          I in 2         12-16,500              -            -           -          -         12                                 -          -
Rama                                     "                                 800             -            -           -          -          -          -           -          0.8        0.8
Subtotal                                                                      -             -          -          -          12          -          -          0.8         0.8
Packing Materials
Potato and grain sacks              100 kg sacks   180                      20             -            3.6        3.6         3.6        3.6        3.6        3.6         3.6        3.6
Subtotal                                                                       -            3.6        3.6        3.6         3.6        3.6        3.6        3.6         3.6
Planting Materials
Petata seed                            kg/ha      1,200                      4             -           72         72          72         72         72         72          72         72
Cereal seed                               '       2,024                      3.91          -            9          9           9          9          9          9           9          9
Vegetable seed                           "             -                     -             -            1.1         1.1        1.1        1.1        1.1         1.1        1.1        1.1
Feetiliner                                                                                 _           45         45          45         45         45         45          45         45
Insecticides                                                                               -            4.5        4.5         4.5        4.3        4.3        4.5         4.5        4.5
Subtotal                                                                       -          131.6      131.6      131.6       131.6      131.6      131.6      131.6       131.6
Fuels and lubricants
Motorcycles                         liter/year                                             -            1           1          1          1          1           1          I
Subtotal                                                                       -            1          1           1          1          1          1           1          1
Irrigation 0 & 4-0
Electricity                             KWH      66,000                     1.06           -            -         70          70         70         70          70         70         70
Inspections, etc.                    man/year                         10,000               -            _         12         12          12         12         12          12         12
Replacement of pump and
driven motor                           1                           116,000               -            -          -           -          -          -          -           -          -
Subtotal                                                                                              82-        82         82          82         82         82          82
Tractorl/
Operating expenses3/                   hour       1,500                     -              -           24         24          24         24         24          24         24         24
Subtotal                                                                       -           24         24         24          24         24         24         24          24
Miscellaneous
Annual account.ing                  per annum                                                           2           2          2          2          2           2          2          2
Tools                                                                                      -1                                  1          1          1           1          1 l
Subtotal                                                                       -            2          3          3           3          3          3           3          3
Total                                                                         _           246        296        297        313         301        301        302         302
Purchased sheep for fattening                                                                -            -           -         14         14         15          15         15         15
Total operating expesses                                                                    33          246         296        311        327        316         316        317        317
Total Sales                                                                                 75          467        617         788        841        827         876        967      1,044
Net operating incoo                                                                         42          222         321        477        514        511         560        650        727
Incremental operating income                                                                 -          180         279        435        472        469         518        608        685
1/  Replace pump in year 11 for $b 116,000-   Tariff includes full capital recovery of power line cost.
2/ Replace tractor and implements in years 7, 13, for $b 662,400.
3/ See Annex 1, Table 2 for details.
Noveaber 24, 1975



BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model I - Irrigated Development or a Commonally-Ope-ated Load
Finanoial Pro-eotion After Debt Serice
Befor --   ---- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- y-a  ----------------------------------------------------------
Category                           Development    1         2        3         4        5         6         7           8          9            10         11          12           13          14         15           16          17          i8          19         20           21
A. Cash IDflow ($ b '000)
1.  SDles                                     75      467       617       780      841       841      876       967       1,044       1,044       1,044      1,044       1,044       1,044        1,044       1,044       1,044       1,044       1,044       1,044       1,044        1,044
2.  Development IDoo  I                       --    2,400       156        94       --        --        --       --          --          --          --          --          --          --          --          --           --          __          __          __          __          __
3.  CGsh bhlance prev. oos yeor               --        --      141       114      235       351      478       620          15         170         296         393         195         335          34         116           19          43          28          24          41          50
4.  ReasoneD loan Ror oper., ep. 2/           --       246        --       --        --       --        --       --          --          --          --          --          --          --          --          --           __          __          _  
Total Inflow                           75   3,113        914       996    1,076    1,192    1,354    1,587         1,059       E,214       1,340      1,437        1,739       1,379       1,078       1,160       1,063       1,087       1,082       1,098        1,085       1,094
b.  Cash Otflow  ($ b '000)
1.  Develep-ent investment                    --   2,400        156        94       --        --        --      662          --          --          --         116          --         662          --          --           --          --          --          --          --          --
2.  Operating enpenses                        33       246      296       311      327       316       316      316         316         316         316         316         316         316         316         316         316          316         316         316         316         316
3. Loon repaynents
a)  Dep. loon principal                --        --       --        --       --        --        --      176         176         176         176         176         176         176         176         176         176          176         176         176         176         176
b)  Dev,  loan interest                --        --      288       306      318       318      318       318         297         276         255         234         212         191         170         149         128          104          96          65          43           23
a)  Deasonal loan prtn-ipal            --       246        --       --        --       --        --       --          --          --          --          --          --          --          --           --         --           --          --          --          --          --
d)   Deasonal loan interest            --        30       --        --        --       --        --       --          --          --          --          --          --           --          --          --          --          --          --          --           --          --
e)  Distribotion  to members           42        50       60        50       80        80      100       100         100         150         200         400         200          34         300         400         500         450         450          500         500         579
Total Outfle                          75    2,972       800       761      725       714       734   1,572          889         918         947       1,242         904       1,420         962       1,041       1,120       1,049       1,028        1,057       1,035       1,094
C.  Cash bRlents                                            141      114      235       351       478      620        15         170         296         393         195         335          --         116          19          43           38          54          41          50          --
1/  20 year loan at 13% with 5 years grars.
2/  12 months loam  at 12%.
O.tohen 22, 1975



ANNEX I
Table 7
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Model I - Irrigated Development on Communally-Operated Land
Family Farm - Crop Proiections, Sales and Operating Expenses
Yields/ha.               has.                 Without              ----------           ----- Yesr ------------------------
Category                   Unit             years 0-4                yrs. 0. 1            Project           1               2              3             4             5-20
Crop ft.i.ctio.s                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------------------------------- tons- ------------------------------------
Crop Pro jections
Barley                            tons            3, 3, 3, 4                1.8    2              5.4           6.0              6.0            8.0           8.0             8.0
Potatoes                           "              4, 5, 6  7                0,33   0.3            1.32          2.5               3.0           3.5            3.,            3.5
Quinoa                                            0.6                       0.44   0.6            0.264         0.36              0.36          0.36          0.36            0.36
Wheat                              "               0.7                      0.04   0.04           1.028         0.028             0.028         0.028          0.028          0.028
Papalizas, Oca                     "              3.0                       0.02   0.02           0.06          0.06              0.06          0.06           0.06           0.06
T263   T.16
Livestock Products
Meat   /L3/                       kg/DwT                                                         85           285                85            90            95             100
Milk                              litres                                                        312           312               320           340           350             360
Sheep                              uits                                                           8             8                 8             9            10              10
Pigs                              kg/DmT                                                         60            60               60             62            62              65
Value of Production
Cash Crops                  Fasr Gate Prices b-                                                                                          b-
Barley A/
Potatoes                          kg              3                                          3,960          7,500            9,000        10,500         10,500         10,500
Quinos                            kg              3                                            792          1,000            1,000          1,000         1,000          1,000
Wheat                             kg              4                                             112           112               112           112           112             112
Papalizas, oca.                   kg              4                                             240           240               240           240           240             240
Sub Total                                                                          5,104          8,852           10,352        11,852         11,852         11,852
Animal Products
Meat                              kg             20                                           1,700         5,700            1,700          1,800         1,900          2,000
Milk                              1               3.56                                       1,110          1,100            1,140          1,210         1,246           1,282
Sheep                            kg              20                                            800            800              800            900         1,000          1,000
Pigs                              kg             15                                            900            900              900            930           930            975
Sub Total                                                                          4,510         8,510             4,540         4,840          5,076          5,257
Total Value                                                                                  9,614        17,362            14,892        15,692         16,928         17,109
Loss On Farm Consumption                                                                     4,900          5,000            5,200          5,400         5,600          5,900
Total Cash Sales                                                                             4,714        12,362             9,692        11,292         11,328         11,209
Costa of Production (pesos)
Planting Material                              Price$b         No./yr,
Potato seed                   kg            4             396,    600                     1,584        2,400              2,400         2,400          2,400          2,400
Barley seed                    kg           3.91          165.6,  184                       647           719               719            719           719            719
Qninoa seed                   kg            3              22,      30                       66            90                90             90            90             90
Wheat                          kg           4               2,       2                        8             8                 8              8             8               8
Papaliza and sea              kg            5               2,       2                       10            10                10             10            10              10
Manure                         tons       100              2.5,      3.6                    250           360               360            360           360            360
Fertilizor                    kg          500                                                  -            -                 -              -             -               -
Insecticide                   kg          100              0,        3.8                      -          380                380           380            38b            380
Lakbr
Human                      men/days        25             240      270                    6,000        6,750              6,750         6,750         6,750           6,750
Animal                      an./days       30              -34,     34                    1,020        1,020              1,020         1,020          1,020          1,020
Tractor Hire                      hra        125                0,      2.5                       -          312               312            312           312             312
Sacks                            units        20              20,      40                      400           800               800            800           800             800
Total Value                                                                                  9,985        12,849            12,849         12,849        12,849         12,849
Lean mom Cash Costs                                                                          7,270         8,130             8,130          8,130         8,130           8,130
Total Cash Costa                                                                             2,715         4,719             4,719          4,719         4,719          4,719
Incremental Operating Expenses                                                                         -        2,000              2,000         2,000          2,000          2,000
1/ CORDEPAZ, "Proyecto 1e Desarrollo Rural", La Paz 1974. Also mission estimates from field data.
2/ Farm bull sold in year 1, replaced by service availability of improved size.
3/  Add 5% per year to carcass weights in years 3 to 5 to reflect improved feeding, breeding and management.
4/  Consumed on farm by animals.
October 15, 1975



BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Model 1 - Irrigated Development on Communally-Operated Land
Farm Family - Financial Projections After Debt Service
----------------------------------------------- Year -------------------- ----------------___________________
Without Project      1          2         3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10          11-21
Category
A. CASH INFLOW,
1. Cash Sales                                            4,714        12,362     9,692      11,292    11,328   11,209    11,209        11,209      11,209    11,209    11,209          11,209
2. Cash Carried Forward from Previous Year                 -             -       4,719       4,719      4,719    4,719      4,719       4,719       4,719      4,719     4,719         4,719
3. Seasonal Loan for Operating Expenses                    -           4,719        -                                         -           -           -          -         -              -
TOTAL INFLOW                                          4,714        17,081    14,411      16,011    16,047   15,928    15,928        15,928      15,928    15,928    15,928         15,928
B. CASH OUTFLOW
1. Cash Operating Expenses                               2,714         4,719     4,719       4,719      4,719    4,719      4,719       4,719       4,719      4,719     4,719         4,719
2. Loan Repayments                                         -           5,285        -         -           -         -                                            -          -             -
TOTAL OUTFLOW                                         2,714        10,004     4,719       4,719      4,719    4,719      4,719       4,719       4,719     4,719      4,719         4,719
CASH BALANCE                                          2,000         7,077     9,692      11,292    11,328   11,209    11,209        11,209      11,209    11,209    11,209         11,209
WITHDRAWALS 1/                                        2,000         2,358     4,973       6,573      6,609    6,490      6,490       6,490       6,490      6,490     6,490          6,490
C. FARM FAMILY NET BENEFIT
1. Value of Domestic Consumption                         4,900         5,000     5,200       5,400      5,600    5,900      5,900       5,900       5,900      5,900      5,900         5,900
2. Withdrawals                                           2,000         2,358     4,973       6,573      6,609    6,490      6,490       6,490       6,490      6,490      6,490         6,490
3. Share Income from Group Farm                            -           1,000     1,200       1,000      1,60     1,600      2,          2000        2,000      3,000     4,000         10,00
TOTAL NET BENEFIT                                     6,900         8,358    11,373      12,973    13,809   13,990    14,390        14,390      14,390    15,390    16,390         22,390
D. WITHOUT PROJECT FARM FAMILY NET BENEFIT                  6,900         6,900      6,900      6,900      6,900    6,900       6,900      6,900       6,900      6,900      6,900         6,900
E. INCREMENTAL FARM FAMILY NET BENEFIT                        -           1,458      4,473       6,073     6,909    7,090       7,490       7,490      7,490      8,490      9,490        15,490
F. FAMILY INCOME AT FULL DEVELOPMENT                       $b 22,390 = US$1,120 or US$187 per capita.
FAMILY INCOME WITHOUT PROJECT                           $b 6,900  = US$345 or US$57 per capita.
INCREMENTAL INCOME                                      $b 15,490 = US$ 775.
1/  Cash Balance - Operating expenses for following year = withdrawals.                                                                                                                            H
October 15, 1975



ANNEX I
Table 9
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Model 2 - Rainfed Development on Communally-Operated Land
On-Fam Investment Costs - Financial Flows
Local Cost or
----------------------- Investment Period -------------   Total    Total                    US                               Cooperative
Investment Item                                Unit    Unit Cost              Year 1                 Year 2                 Year 3        Unite      Cost       Equivalent   F.E. Component   Contribution
($b)        (No.)   (Amount)    (No.)   (Amount)    (No.)   (Amount)   (No.)   ($b'000)    (US$'000)                       (Amount)   (7)  (Amount)
($b'000)              ($b'000)               ($b'000)
A. PHISICAL INPUTS
Buildings
Office and store                        Units    24,000            1        12            -         _           _          -          1        12            0.6          20      0.12        20    0.48
Produce storage                            "       50,000          1        25            -         _           _         -           1        25            1.25         20      0.25       80      1.0
Houses                                     '       25,000          1        12.5          -         -           -          -          1        12.5          0.625        20      0.125       80    0.5
Garage workshop                                    20,000          1        10.0          -         -           -         -           1        10            0.5          20      0.1         80    0.4
Assembly room                              "       16,000          1         8.0          -         -           -          -          I         8            0.4          20      0.08        80    0.32
67.5                    -                     -                    67.5          3.375                0.675             2.7
Stock Handling Facilities
Dairy and sheep shed                       "      105,000          1        52.5          -         -           -                     1        52.5          2.625        20      0.525      80    2.1
Watering Facilities Headquarters
Office and central building             Meters   10,000            1         5            -         -           _          _          1         5            0.25         20      0.05        80    0.2
Tanks and troughs                                  25,000          1        12.5          -         -           -          -          -        12.5          0.625        20      0.124      80    0.5
Shallow wells and pomp                              6,800          -         4.7         -          -           -         -           -         4.7          0.275        10      0.023      90    0.212
22.2                    -                     -                    22.2          1.11                 0.198             0.912
Machinery
Motorcycles                              Unit       9,000          1         9            -         -           -          -          1         9            0.45        100      0.45         -       -
Bicycles                                            3,600          3         3.6          -         -           -         -           1         3.6          0.18        100      0.18         -       -
Electric senerator                                 18,000          1        18            -         -           -          -          1        18            0.9         100      0.9          -       -
30.6                    -                     -                    30.6          1.53                 1.53                -
Pasture Establishment
Plowing                                    ha         560        30         16.8          -         -           -         -          30        16.8          0.84         20      0.47       80    0.67
Seeding                                 kg/ha         860         30        25.8          -         -           -         -          30        25.8          1.29        100      1.29         -       -
Fertilizer                                 kg          10         30        15.0          -         -           -         -          30        15            0.75        100      0.75         -       -
Planting                                   ha         100         30         3            -         -           -         -          30         3            0.15          -        -       100    0.15
Weeding                                    ha         500          -         -            -         -           -          -          -         -              -           -        -          -       -
Storage                                    ha         900                                 -         -                                 -         -              -
Reseeding                               kg/ha         800          -         -            7         5.6         7          5.6       14        11.2          0.56        100      0.56         -       -
Storage shed                            unit       18,000          -         9            -         -           -         -           1         9            0.45         20      0.09       80    0.36
69.7                   5.6                    5.6                  80.8          4.04                 2.87              1.18
Tools and Equipment                          "       10,000          1        10            -         -            -         -          -         10           0.5         100      0.5          -       -
Seeds. Fertilizer. Insecticides.
Sacks (Cropp)g/                            ha          45          -       110            -        89.99        -        89.99      115       290           14.5          10      1.45        90   13.05
Tractor Hire (Annual Crops)                 hrs          125       400        50                     50                     50          -        150            7.5         20      1.5         80    6.0
Total                                                            412.5                 145.6                  145.6                 703           35.2                  9.25             26.0
B.  LIVESTOCK PURCHASES
Bulls                                      head      12,000          1        12            1         12           -         -          2         24            1.2         50      0.6         50    0.6
Improved dairy cows                          '        8,000          3        24            3         24           -         -          6        48            2.4          50      1.2         50     1.2
Local cows contributed                                4,000         18        72            5         20           4        16         27       108            5.4           -         -       100    5.4
Rams                                                     800         2         1.6          -          -           -         -          2          1.6         0.08           -        -       100    0.08
Total                                                            109.6                    56                   16                   181.6          9.08                 1.8               7.28
Total Investments                                                                522.1                   201.6                 161.6                 885.0         44.25         25    11.05        75   33.23
1/ For Cash Flow - only financial transactions are shown. With labor contributios by members of group at 507. of the cost of buildings the item is entered at its actual cash cost.
2/ Capitalize during investment period.
October 16, 1975



IItz   I00Io'I  lob  IoIu,IoIo    boaI0-                00                                    '0                 On                                 0'                         00
0'                                                       '0-                                10                         01
0          0-   0'010011010  100       0              "100 00 10111100001  00   001010010-10100,0    00-0-000 '-10000000-
0 22  0    000100010000100'       0'                            10'     0 000              00000'                             0'
o 0010000<1'- 00110'l'10-                  0'   0'l0 0-   '00'0           S  o'o -n o'o         00  00000  01  -10'                              00  00000  0  00000
0'                                       '00 H       01        0000                                        0-               0001      0 10 010-0'-'    H 0000o H   100100100
100'  0011" 10  10   10000010        000        0-00000110
00000   000010 00         01000000  0100d1-'00     0000 0-  On       1000-0    10           010             00000
0-000   '.0'  '000,10   00                  0  00 000'00-1001010'00000                     00     --
001  "'00   -    00001   0-          1 0        0'    000000
00500'00-'-01  00   000'  0               0'00   0'l-'0O 10   00'  000000'  l000   00-00'            101 0100000101001  010
--  0-01  000-0110100-10  -                 00   00   0000000         010101000  0101.0  10  000010000-0            0l-'t0           -  -           - -  0-000  01000   -
-    -  0'000 000-0   001"'                      0'   '0   000  0'-"  ooOO'-'.00010         '001000110         00000        10     00                            000  00-    10001
o00000.O0 0'0000-100-01                         01,-'  '0,000-0' 10'00110  000         110000   0'    01  00         010   00            -            001001       100100-110
110  010  00-0 ,"0-O   0-0                       0000001000   00000-0                         '0         001         00    010           00            0-01000'    '-0-  -   10  0
0-010    1110000000   00'                    -"'-.' 0    '-"1l'obo'0  000'-"                 -  0          Oil-'    OIl                                   000
01  0'  0             0000                                       I                             0  0          110            10'          000              0  010-
010  0000-I"                    '0    0         I'-    01001                   "000          -          0                0' 0'          100   0        2of   10
00001111-'  01,00-000   0                                          "''00  000  000               110-      0001"-.            "'000       00             0' 0 01'0
'000   0'-O'100                                                b,-''0  0100101                 01  -      I             11     -         00                0-0
100    0010000                                "''                        01 01          101001011
0000                                                         11 0                           10
010>1    00000100   0                     0    -                 000
00   0100011'0..0-0000001                        10   0-                    000                  0-0                                                                       0
S                                                                                                                                              S
510                        0-                  00
0  010000'00000   0  00                              01                   0                              0  0                                                            0
0  01 00-'0001   01010-na  0                         0                    01                             01' ""'                                            010         '01
0010010   100-                        0                    0-                                                                                010
5' W50-ftZ"5'0'S                                                                                                                                         0100-
01   0-0  0-0010  00-01050
10 01    0-  01000   0  01
0  0100   02'  00-  0101    0                        0-
0  0-0-0  010100  '00   0-0                          0                                                                                                        IOn
0 0 000-01100011000
00   1000   0-0-0010010-  100                          00
0  00    '0       0000   0                  0      -"'   0-         100-
0  000      000500000                                                 01    0
0'          0       0        0'   0- I        0     0' 00000
00   10010  01000  0-0-    Oaa'0          00010   00        00001 '-1   010001..01001'0101001  01    01   :00,0      0100      0     0     0000             -0'   0  0
000
00   000'         0-0  010  0             1000       -       '--        010  00                     01          01       0        0     0          0     1010  010
0        I '00510000-00   0'              0100               01         00-  0                       0-         0-       0-       0-0-             0-    ''0-'
0-0  1010    001000-00101010              0                  0'
00     00. 00-0000   01000-               0
100  0100   00101010010000''010
0 000- 0010 100"l10000
5 5'55 50-  0000001
01  '0    0    0000   010-00                                 0"
0001   00   00   0-000                                    0'      01                                010-100              0-1000                                  '00  '000    01
001  0001  00   1000   000-10                                 00       01                                                                                              '    -'       0
100    00   0-0' 01  000-0                       01000        '00 100010110111    1101              001  0-0101000     1001' 10010      000111            I  0   I I 010-0100-
00   00-    00   00001   100-0             01   010-10         0        '-                          1-1  0-0-01010-    0      0-0-0-                                   0-0000-0-    0-0
00    0  01  00   0  0101010100            00    0100          01       0-                           0    0-00010      0      010-00                                    00010100-     100
10  0100  010  ''00-  0000                                   0-       0                                                                                                            000
00  '00       '    0  000-0-                                            0                                                                                                              01
0'                                                                                                                                                                                            0'
0    '0'0  010      0-00000                                                                                                                                                          10     0-
U 00  0-10    00    011001000-0-
10o0   100    0000000                                                                                                                                                            00      0
0                                                                                                                                                                     0000
000  0010   0-    '-'-00  000010-                              0                                                                                                                     0101    0-
'0100,           00001   0                                   00'
00   00     00                                                                                                                                                                       0 '-'-   00
0101  0010   00     000'0010                                                                              o'oO0-                0-00                                   .0-0  0000   01
0-   000  00      001' 01' 0                    00          00 111100111'll   1111                 00' 0-0100-00     0100'  00000      111111           0 I    I I 001000
'0    00       0    010  10  0-                   0            "'-                                        0'30'0'0'    30'      0000                                    ooooo        0         00  00
00   0  01  01      0    0  0'0                  00            0        01                                                      000-                                    0-0000       I
0-                00
0-  000100             01  00                                         0                                                                                                                               00
0-0'  01010  00       0  01 '0
01   010   '0    0        10
'0   0-0110  00     001  0  0
00   00100  000-   0-0   0  0                                                                                                                               '                        000
500                                                                  111111111                   000-101010001                     0,     0-0-11110001
01  10  0  0-           0  a                                                                                                                                    010110-
0    0-  0  00-       0  0-  00                                                                                            00001
00                00  00
'0         0'    00-  01  oS                                                                                                                                                       010                00  10
010    0101    00  10    0   0 '0                                                                                                                                                    010                '0    01
10   000      0       0      00                                                                                                                                                        00              10  01
00 '0 0 01 010 01 0
0000     -                                                             000000000l0  000111001                       000-11.0001            11111   010100000100101001
'--0  0010-  00     00   0  0                                                                                                                                                                           00
010  00-    510    0'  '0  00                                                 00
01010-0       0              10                  I           01      000000010-'-'001     -                                                  I           000101
100  0'0    01    -                                                     0                     10    ..011                011
0110  10 100-  00   0                            III'    0- ''0-00-                                 'o        lo          l    I
*    '0  '                   o                                 0                                                                                                                     i-I
0'        0-                                                               1001w       1000-100000100L0001101101000000010000000                     1001
10  01     0      50  00  00
      Uj    00   0
'0         010    00   5   U                                 01
10  0      00     00   0                                                                                                                                                              I      0
0-  0                   01  00          000011    01                  0    0                           I                    I
01     100    000  00  10             001       01     01  01000000000010101         01  0     0101'                01   I                          0
00  0      010    05   10001              0-01,110         0  10010-0-0-0-0001000  0010  0-    001111010              '000' 10001     01001101011       0-1010000100100-100-00     0'
0  10      0        0-  0  1001
10  0      00     0'0      01
00     0-'0       .              -                         0001                   0-    001010110-000-    010001110001001100011              00         0100010-00
0-  01     00     001                   01000-I                                                        I                    '                             I          I
0  0       01'    010  '0               0000-I    10       0  0000  000000"'  0001      ''  0      0101                01                   I           0     0-00       000
0  0-    0"       00  10  0               '00-11000        0                                                                I                             100000-10                001
00   0  0                                1000                                                                                                                      0-
0  01      0      001  '  0                                  0                                                                                                                       0
001      10           0                                                                                                                                            00
010      0            '   -   '    I                                                                                                                               0
0      0            0-00011    01                 00    0                          I                    I              I              I                        0
0                                                                                                                       01
010      '            00010      01      0  000000000000-  0101       01        010-I                    I.              1100011        I   0-0101    000         01
0-0  ''00        0  0100000010010000   0001  0    000111000-                100'    II      0-0               801000-0-1000101000        00
O      05       00          00
0      0      010       01          '''
0      00       0            0100011                       0-   01                                                                           0            I
0      0      0'       00            000001             01  000000100000-0-01        01  0                          0    0    1    1          I            010010     000
0'                     000-Ill 0-       01  0-10000010001000000   00   'OOOII I 000-               010-I  1101      010110000        001010000101000000100    fol:
01       10           0-                                                                                                                                                                     0
O 000001 10 0 0- I I II I 0
10 0 00001 10 00 00000000000- 0-0- 10 00 0101 01 0 0-0010 000 I 0
01     0      0-        0                  I               10100-000001                        001010-1000-                 010100110001            0-10100101010 100010000
0      00              0-             000-1101          0             0001000000   0-                             000010.1                    I                                 0:
0      10     01        0                                                                                                                                                                                   0-
01            0         0-          00010'      10                0-    0-                          I                                   I             I          I
0      0      0                     00001 I   10       01  00000 000000"'-0101       0- '0    OOfl                 10   I                           0-   0-010,   000          00'
0      01    01        01             000-I'io          0-  00-0-010000000000000010  01               1000-       '00' I'                000011     01 0100001001100-010100
0      01     00        0                               .'                                                                                                                      00
01    01    00                                          0-01                                                                                                                    0-0



ANNEX 1
Table 11
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Model 2 - Rainfed Development on Comunally-Operated Land
Crop Projection - Sales
(Sb '000)
Before           ---------------------------------- Year --------------------------------------
Category                     Unit           Years 0-4      Years 5-20           Development          1         2           3           4           5           6           7           8
ha             ha        has
CROP PROJECTIONS
Cash Crops
Potatoesi/                       tons         5,6,6,7 tons          7         15          20              75       90          90         105         105          105        105         105
Papalizas, Oca                    "                                 -         -            3.7            -         -           -          -            -           -           -           -
Quinoa                                                              -         -             .6            -         -           -          -            _          _           _           _
Wheat                                                                                       .4            -         -          -           - 4                     -           -           -
Forage Crops
Oats    2
Barley )                     tons/ha.         3,4,4,4 tons          4         30          77              90      120         120         120         120          120        120         120
Alfalfa/Pestuca Past.3/    tons/ha.               0-2               2         30          -               -         30          60         60          60           60          60          60
SALES                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~SELLING PRICES
SALES                                                        $b
Cash Crops
Potatoes                                      3,000/ton          3,000/ton                60             225      270         315         315         315         315         315          315
Papalizas, Ocas                                                                            2.4            -        -           -           -           -            -           -           -
Quinoa                                                                                    11.1            -         -           -          -           -            -           -           -
Whea4t                                                                                     1.6            -        _            -           -           -           -           -           -
Sub-Total                                                                                 75.0           225      270         270         315         315         315         315          315
Surplus Forage Crops
Alfalfa Hay
Cereal Hay                                     900/ton             900                   -                -         -          -           -           -           -           -            -
Sub-Total
Livestock Products
Bull Calves                      head           200                   250                                  1.4       1.4         1.8         2.25        2.25        2.25        2.25        2.25
Surplus Heifers                   "           1,000                 1,100                                 -        -            4           5           5.5         5.5          5.5         5.5
Cull Cows                         "           4,000                 4,500                                 -        12          16          16          18           18         18           18
Cull Heifers                                    600                   650                                 -        -           -           -           -           -           -            -
Cull Bulls                                    5,000                 6,000                                 -         -          -            5.0        -            -            5          -
Sheep                                           230                   270                                  3.9      3.9         3.9         3.9         4.59        4.59         4.59        4.59
Fresh Milk                      litres             3.56                 3.56              -               38.45    38.45       51.26       53.82       53.82        71.77      107.65      143.54
Bull Services                Services/cow        50                    50                 -               -           .5         1           1           1           1           1           1
Ram Services                 Services/ewe         10                   10                 -               -           .2          .2          .6          .6          .6          .6          .6
Sub-Total                                                                                 -               43.75    56.45       74.96       87.12       85.76      103.71      144.59      175.48
TOTAL SALES                                                                               75.0           268.75   326.45      344.96      402.12      400.76      418.71      459.59       490.48
1/  See Annex 1, Table 4.
2/ See Annex 1, Table 4.
3/ See Annex 1, Table 4.
Ji.nuir; '-, 15,7



ANNEX I
Table 12
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Model 2 - Rainfed Development on Communallv-Operated Land
Crop Pro-ection - Operating Expenses
BDfore    ----------------------------------- Year -----------------------------------
Category                                         Unit       No Year             Unit/Value       Development   1             2           3           4          5           6           7          8-20
OPERATING EXPENSES
Administration
Farn manager                              nan-year        I                   10,000              -         10          10         10          10          10         10          10          10
Clerk storekeeper                                          I                    9,000              -         9           9           9          9           9           9          9           9
Dairy and livestock foreman                                1                    7,000              -         7           7           7          7           7           7           7          7
Subtotal                                                                             -         26         26          26          26          26         26          26          26
Labor
Milkers                                                    3                    6,000              -        18          19          18         18          18          18         18          18
Animal Health
Dipping                                    head            -                        1.20
Drenching                                    "            -                         2.40
Minerals                                                   -                        8.00)         -          3           3          3.5         4           5          5           5           5
Vaccines                                                   -                        4.00
Veterinary services                      visit            6                   400/visit
Maintenance and Running Costs
Pastores                                  man-day       10/ha                      25                                                           -           -          -           -           -
Buildings                                                              2% of new value            -          -           I          1           1           1           1          1           1
Internal roads                        tractor hours                                                                                 -           -           -           -          -           -
Stock handling facilities                                              2% of new value            -          -           1          1           1           1           1          1
Watering facilities                                                    2% of new value            -          -           0.1        0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1        0.1         0.1
Motorcycles                                                           20% of new value            -          -           -          -           -           9           -           -          -
Electric generator                                                    10% of new value            -          -           -          -           -          18           -          -           -
General                                  per annum                                                -         10                     10          10          10         10          10          10
Subtotal                                                                              -        10          12.1       12.1        12.1        39.1        12.1       12.1        12.1
Repllacements
Bulls                                      head                               12,000                                                           12           -            -         -           -
Rams                                                                              B00             -          -           -          -           0.8         -            -         0.8
Subtotal                                                                             -          -           -          -          12.8         -            -         0.8
Packing Materials
Potato and grain sacks                     unit         105                        20             -          -           -          -           2.1         2.1        2.1         2.1         2.1
Planting Materialsi/
Potato seed                                kg/ha      1,200                         4             -          -           -          -          72          72         72          72          72
Cereal seed                                   "          92                         3.9            -         _           -          _          10.79       10.79       10.79      10.79       10.79
Fertilizer                                 tons/ha         7.2                    100                                                           -           -           -           -          -
Insecticides                                                                                      -          -           -          -           7.2         7.2         7.2        7.2         7.2
Subtotal                                                                              -         -           -          -          89.99       89.99       89.99      89.99       89.99
Fuels and Lubricants
Motorcycles                                 kn         .90/liter                                   -         1           1           1          1           1           1           1          1
Electric generator                          hours                                                 -          2           2          2           2           2           2          2           2
Subtotal                                                                              -         3           3          3           3           3           3          3           3
Miscellaneous
Annual accounting                        per annm                                                  _         2           2           2          2           2           2           2          2
Tools"                                                   10%/                                     -          -           -          -                 1           1           1    1
Subtotal                                                                             -          2           2          2           3           3           3          3           3
Tractor Hire2/                                 hours      400                       125              -         -           -           -         50          50          50         50          50
Total direct operating expenses                                                                      -        62          64.1        64.6      203         236         209        210         209
Purchased sheep for fattening                                                                        -         3           3           4          4           4           4           4          4
Total operating expenses                                                                            33        65          67         69         207         240         213        214         213
Total sales                                                                                         75       269         327        345         402         401         419        460         490
Net operating incone                                                                               42        204         260        276         195         161         206        246         277
Incremental operating income                                                                         -       162         218        234         237         119         164        204         235
1/ Capitalize during investment period.
2/ As for 1/.
October 20, 1975



BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 2 - Rainied Development on Coeznally-Oeermted Land
Fianpnial Pro-entipe After Debt Service
(Sb' 000)
Proioct         1        2        3        4        5        6        7        8        9        10        11        12        13        14        15        16        17         18       19       2        21
Category
A.  CASH INFLOW
1. Salns                                                         75             269      326     345      402      400      419      460      490      490      490       490       490       490       490       490       490        490       490      490       490      490
2. Development Loan  1/                                          -              522     202      162       -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -        -         -        -
3. C=ob BNaloco Pr-vioue Yrap                                    -               -        84     196      286      275      129       29       10       29        5         8        -         -         _         11         29        54        37       27        24       28
4. Unsoonal Loan for Operatig Eepensee  2/                       -               65       -       -        ---               -        -        -       -         -                   -         - -                  -        -          -         -        -        _         -
TOTAL INFLOW                                                  75            856      612      703      688      675      548     489      500      519      495       498       490       490        490       501       519       544       527      517        514      518
S. CASH OUTFLOW
1. Invlatinnt                                                    -              522      202     162       -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -         -         -         -         _         -          _         _        _         _        _
2. Ope.atipg Onpenaca                                            33              65      67       69      207      240      213      214      213      213      213       213       213       213       213       213       213        213       213      213       213      213
3. Loom Ropaynent
ol Ilvelopnent Loop Principal                                 -              -        -        -        -        -        -        59       59       59      59        59        59         59        09        99        59        59         59      59         59       59
b)  Ieelopnent Lean Internet                                  -              62       87      106      106      106      106      106       99       92       85        78        71        64        57        50        43        35         28       21        14        7
c1 Soaconl Loan Picpal                                                       60                -        -        -        -        -        -        -            -               -         -         -         -         -         -          -       -6
d) Sna nel Loan Interoot                                      -                                                                    -
e) Diatribution ta nembern                                    42             50       60       00      000      200      200      100     100      050      130       1                                                  150       200       200       200       200      239
TOTAL OUTFLOW                                                 75            772      416      417      413      546      519      479     471       514     487       500       493        486       479       472       465       507       500      493        486      518
C.  CASH BALANCE                                                      -              04      196      286      275      129       29       10      29        5        8        -         -         -          11        29        54        37        27       24        28        -
1/  20 year loan at 12% aith 5 yem-  g-aco.
2/ 12 no.tho loon at 12%.
October 15, 1975



ANNEX I
Table 14
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Model 2 - Rainfed Development on Comm-ually-Operated Land
Farm Family - Crop Projections. Sales and Operating Expenses
Yields/ha          ha          Without      -------------------- Year --------------------
Category                                      Unit           years 0-4       years 0.1       Project         1          2           3          4        5-20
Crop Projections
Barley                                         tons          3,3,3,4         1.8   2             5.4         5.4        6.0         8.0        8.0        8.0
Potatoesl/                                                   4,5,6,7         0.33  0.5           1.32        2.5        3.0         3.5        3.5        3.5
Quinoa                                                       0.6             0.44  0.6           0.264       0.36       0.36        0.36       0.36       0.36
Wheat                                            "           0.7             0.04  0.04          0.028       0.028      0.028       0.028      0.028      0.028
Papalizas, oca                                   "           3.0             0.02  0.02          0.06        0.06       0.06        0.06       0.06       0.06
2.63  3.16
Livestock Products
Meat2/3/                                     kg/DWT                                             85         285         85          90         95        100
Milk                                          liters                                           312         312        320         340        350        360
Sheep                                        units                                               8           8          8           9         10         10
Pigs                                         kg/DWT                                             60          60         60         62          62         65
Value of Production
Cash Cmo ps                      Fam  Gate Prices   $b                                    --------------------------- $b ----------------------------
Barley4/
Potatoes                                     kg       3                                    3,960         7,500      9,000    10,500      10,500    10,500
Quin.a                                       kg        3                                      792        1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000       1,000
Wheat                                         kg      4                                       112          112        112         112        112        112
Papalizas, oca                               kg       4                                       240          240        240        240         240        240
Subtotal                                                                     5,104        8,852     10,352      11,852    11,852    11,852
Animal Products
Meat                                         kg       20                                    1,700        5,700      1,700      1,800       1,900      2,000
Milk                                          1        3.56                                 1,110        1,110      1,140      1,210       ',246      1,282
Sheep                                        kg      20                                       800          800        900      1,000      1,000       1,000
Pigs                                         kg      15                                       900          900        930        930         930        975
Subtotal                                                                     4,510        8,510      4,540       4,840      5,076      5,257
Total value                                                                                9,614        17,362     14,892     16,692    16,928    17,109
Less on fanm  consumption                                                                  4.900         5.000      5,200      5,400      5,600       5,900
Total cash sales                                                                           4,714        12,362      9,692    11,292      11,328    11,209
Costs of Production (pesos)
Planting Material                                 Price $b           No./yr
Potato seed                                  kg       6           396      600             1,584         2,400      2,400      2,400      2,400       2,400
Barley seed                                  kg       3.91        165.6   184                647           719        719        719         719        719
Quinoa seed                                  kg       3            22       30                 66           90         90          90         90         90
Wheat                                         kg      4             2        2                  8            8           8          8          8          8
Papaliza and oca                             kg       5             2        2                 10           10         10          10         10         10
Manure                                       tons   100             2.5      3.6              250          360        360         360        360        360
Fertilizer                                   kg    500              -        -                -            -          -          -           -          -
Insecticide                                  kg    100              0        5                -            380        380        380         380        380
Labor
Human                                    nan/day    25            240      270             6,000         6,750      6,750      6,750      6,750       6,750
Animal                                   an./day    30             34       34              1,020        1,020      1,020      1,020      1,020       1,020
Tractor Hire                               hours   125              -        2.5              -            312        312        312         312        312
Sacks                                      units    20             20       40               400           800        800        800         800        800
Total value                                                                                9,985        12,849     12,849     12,849    12,849       12,849
Less non cash costs                                                                         7.270        8.130      8.130      8,130      8,130       8,130
Total cash costs                                                                           2,715         4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719
Incremental Operating Expenses                                                                  -          2,000      2,000      2,000       2,000      2,000
1/  CORDEPAZ, "Proyecro de Desarrollo Rural", La Paz, 1974.
2/ Farm bull sold in year 1, replaced by service availability of improved size.
3/ Add 57. per year carcass weights in years 3 to 5 to reflect improved feeding, breeding and management.
4/ Consumed on fans by animals.
October 20, 1975



BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Model 2 - Rainfed Development on Communally-Operated Land
Farm Family - Financial Projections After Debt Service
($b )
Without    ------------------------------------------------- Years -------------------------------------------------
Category                                 Proiect        1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9           10      11-21
A.  Cash Inflow
1.  Cash sales                                   4,714    12,362       9,692    11,292    11,328    11,209    11,209    11,209    11,209    11,209    11,209    11,209
2.  Cash carried forward from previous year         --         --      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719       4,719      4,719
3.  Seasonal loan for operating expenses             --     4,719         --          --         --         --         --         --         --         --         --         --
Total Inflow                               4,714    17,081    14,411    16,011    16,047    15,928    15,928    15,928    15,928    15,928    15,928    15,928
B. Cash Outflow
1.  Cash operating expenses                      2,714      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719       4,719      4,719
2.  Loan repayments                                 --      5,285         --         --         --         --         --          --         --         --         --         --
Total Outflow                              2,714    10,004      4,719       4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719      4,719
Cash Balance                               2,000      7,077      9,692    11,292    11,328    11,209    11,209    11,209    11,209    11,209    11,209    11,209
Withdrawals'/                              2,000      2,350      4,973      6,513      6,609      6,490      6,490      6,490      6,490      6,490      6,490       6,490
C.  Farm Family Net Benefit
1.  Value of domestic consumption                4,900      5,000      5,200      5,400      5,600      5,900      5,900      5,900      5,900       5,900      5,900      5,900
2.  Withdrawls                                   2,000      2,358      4,973      6,573      6,609      6,490      6,490      6,490      6,490       6,490      6,490      6,490
3.  Share income from group farm                    --      1,00       1,200      1,600      2,000      4,000      4,000      2,000      2,000       3,000         0       4,000
Total Net Benefit                          6,900      8,358    11,373    13,573    14,209    16,390    16,390    14,390    14,390    15,390    16,390    16,390
D.  Without Project Family Net Benefit                6,900      6,900      6,900      6,900      6,900      6,900      6,900      6,900      6,900      6,900      6,900       6,900
E.  Incremental Farm Family Net Benefit                  --      1,458      4,473      6,673      7,309      9,490      9,490      7,490      7,490      8,490      9,490       9,490
F.  Family Income at Full Development                 $b 16,390 = US$820 or US$137 per capita.
Family Income Without Project                    $b 6,900  = US$345 or US$57 per capita.
Incremental Income                               $b 9,490  = US$475.
1/  Cash Balance - operating expenses for following year = withdrawals.
October 22, 1975
oU,



BOLIVIA                                                                                   Annex 1
Table 16
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Model 3 - Rainfed Development on Group of Individual Farms
Investment and Production Data
Year 1             Year 2              Year 3
Categorv                          Unit
Cash Cost      No.     Amt.      No.     Amt.        No.      Amt.        Total Units      Total Costs       US$ Equiv.       F.E. Component    Local Component
($b)             ($b ' 000)    -    ($b'000)             ($b'000)                        ($b'000)         (US$'000)           %       Amt.      %        Amt.
A. ON FARM INVESTMENT/Group of 50 farms
1. Livestock
Bulls                                 12,000       2         24       3       36          -         -                5               60               3              50        1.5      50       1.5
Rams                                      800      5          4        5       4          -         -               10                8               0.4             0         0      100       0.4
2. Pasture
Seed                                      860     20         17.2    15       12.9        15        12.9            50               43               2.15          100        2.15      0       0
Fertilizer                                300     20          6      15        4.5        15         4.5            50               15              0.75           100        0.75      0       0
3. Marketing Facilities
Office & store (inputs)               12,000       1         12        -       -          -          -               1               12               0.6            20        0.12     80       0.48
Produce Storage                       25,000       1         25        -       -          _          _               1               25               1.25           20        0.25     80       1.0
Well and Pump                          4,700       1          4.7     -        -          -          -               1                4.7            0.24            10       0.02      90       0.22
TOTAL INVESTMENTS                                      92.9              57.4                 17.4                             168              8.4            57        4.79      43       3.6
B. PRODUCTION/Group of 50 farms             Without                                         Year
Project      1        2         3       4          5          6              7               8-20
1. Crops/farms
Yield, tons/ha, Barley                    3       3         3         3       4          4          4              4                4
Potatoes                4        5         6        7        7          7          7              7                7
Quinca                 0.6        unchanged
Wheat                  0.7        unchanged
Oca, etc.               3         unchanged
Area, has.       Barley                  1.8      2        unchanged
Potatoes               0.33      0.5     unchanged
Quinoa                 0.44      0.6     unchanged
Wheat                  0.04      0.04    unchanged
Oca, etc.              0.02      0.02    unchanged
Production tons,Barley                  5.4       6         6         8      8           8         8               8                8
Potatoes               1.32      2.5       3        3.5    3.5          3.5      3.5              3.5              3.5
Quinoa                 0.264    0.36       0.36     0.36   0.36         0.36     0.36             0.36             0.36
Wheat                  0.028    0.028    0.028    0.028  0.028          0.028    0.028            0.028            0.028
Oca, etc.              0.06      0.06     0.06      0.06   0.06         0.06     0.06             0.06             0.06
2. Animal Products/farm
Production, Beef, kg. Dwt. 1/         85       285        85       90      95         100       100             100              100
Milk, litres             312      350       400       450    500         550       600             680              720
Mutton, kg. Dwt.          40       40        40        45     45          50        50              50               50
Pork, kg. Dwt.           60        60        60       62      65          65        65              70               70
3. Total Group Production
Barley, tons                  270       300      300       400     400        400        400            400              400
Potatoes  "                    66       125      150       175     175        175        175            175              175
Quinoa                         13.2      18       18        18       18        18         18             18                18
Wheat                           1.4       1.4      1.4       1.4      1.4       1.4        1.4            1.4               1.4
Oca, etc..                      3        3         3         3        3         3          3              3                 3
Beef, has.                   4,250    14,250   4,250    4,500   4,750        5,000      5,000         5,000            5,000
Milk, litres                15,600    17,500  20,000   22,500  25,000    27,000    30,000            34,000           36,000
Mutton, kg.                  2,000      2,000   2,000    2,250   2,250       2,500      2,500         2,500             2,500
Pork, kg.                    3,000      3,000   3,000    3,100   3,250       3,250      3,250         3,500            3,500
1/   Production in year 1 is unusually high due to one time sale of farm bull rendered surplus by purchase of five bulls for group.
October 15, 1975



BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Model 3 - Rainfed Development on Group of Individual Farms
Group Sales and Operating Expenses
Without                                                  Project Year
Category                           Project        1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9        10-20
-------------------------------------------------$b '000------------------_______________________________
A.  Cash Inflow
Total Value of Production
Price/unit ($b)
Potatoes           3000/ton                      198         375        450        525       525         525       525         525        525        525        525
Quinoa             3000/ton                       40          54         54         54        54          54         54         54         54         54         54
Wheat              4000/ton                        5           5          5          5         5           5          5          5          5          5          5
Oca                4300/ton                       12          12         12         12        12          12         12         12         12         12         12
Beef               20/kg DWT                      85         285         85         90        95         100        100        100        100        100        100
Milk               3.56/liter                     55          62         71         80        89          98        107        121        128        128        128
Mutton             20/kg DWT                      40          40         40         45        45          50         50         50         50         50         50
Pork               15/kg DWT                      45          45         45         46        49          49         49         52         52         52         52
Total                                       480         888        762        857       871         893        902        919        926        926        926
Less On-Farm Consumption                         245         250        260        270       280         295        295        295        295        295        295
Total Cash Sales                                 235         638        502        587       591         598        607        624        631       631         631
B.  Cash Outflow
Total Value of Production Costs
Potato seed                                       79         120        120        120       120         120        120        120        120        120        120
Barley seed                                       32          36         36         36        36          36         36         36         36         36         36
Quinoa seed                                        3           5          5          5         5           5          5          5          5          5          5
Wheat seed                                         o.4         0.4        O.4        0.4       0.4         0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4
Oca seed                                           0.5         0.5        0.5        0.5       0.5         0.5        0.5        0.5        0.5        0.5        0.5
Manure                                            12.5        18         18         18        18          18         18         18         18         18         18
Insecticide                                        -          19         19         19        19          19         19         19         19         19         19
Labor, human                                     300         337        337        337       337         337        337        337        337        337        337
Labor, animal                                     51          51         51         51        51          51         51         51         51         51         51
Tractor Hire                                       -          15.6       15.6       15.6      15.6        15.6       15.6       15.6       15.6       15.6       15.6
Sacks                                             20          40         40         40        40          40        40          40         40         40         40
Subtotal                                   1198         642        642        642       642         642        642        642        642        642        642
Clerk/Storekeeper                                   -          9          9          9         9           9          9          9          9          9          9
Maintenance on buildings                            -          1          1          1         1           1          1          1          1          1          1
Total                                       498         652        652        652       652         652        652        652        652        652        652
Less Non-Cash Costs (Labor and Manure)           363         406        406        406      406          406       406        406        406         406        406
Total Cash Costs                                 135         246        246        246       246         246        246        246        246        246        246
H
October 15, 1975
-4H



ANNEX 1
Table 18
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Model 3 - Rainfed Development on Group of Individual Farms
Group and Farm Family - Financial Projections after Debt Service
Without                                                  Project Year
Category                          Project            1            2            3            4            5            6            7           8-20
----------------------------------------------($b    '000)------------------------- --       __________________
I.  Group
A.  Cash Inflow
1.  Sales, Cash                                     235             638         502          587          591          598          607           624          631
2.  Development Loan                                  -               93         57           18            -            -            -             -            -
3.  Cash Carried Over from Previous Year              -                -        246          246          236          236          246           246          246
4.  Seasonal Loan for Operating Expenses               -             246           -            -           -            -            -             -            -
Total Inflow                           235              977        805          851          827          834          853           870          877
B.  Cash Outflow
1.  Investments                                       -               93         57           18            -            -            -             -            -
2.  Cash Operating Expenses                         135             246         246          246          236          236          246           246          246
3. Loan Repayments
a)  Development Loan Principal 1/                 -               -           -            -           56           56           56             -            -
b)  Development Loan Interest                     -              11          18           20           20           13            7
c)  Seasonal Loan Principal 2/                    -             246           -            -            -            -            -
d)  Seasonal Loan Interest                        -              28
Total Outflow                           135             624         321         284          312          305          309           246          246
Cash Balance                           100              353        484          567          515          529          544           624          631
Withdrawals 3/                          100             107         238         331          279          283          298           378          385
II.  Farm Family
A. Cash Inflow  ($b)
1.  Cash Sales                                     4714           12760       10000        11700        11800        11960        12100         12300        12620
2,  Cash Carried Forward from Previous Year           -                -       4920         4920         4920         4920         4920          4920         4920
3.  Seasonal Loan for Operating Expenses              -            4920                                                                             -            -
Total Inflow                          4714            17680      14910        16620        16720        16880        17020         17320        17540
B.  Cash Outflow
1.  Cash Operating Expenses                        2714            4920        4920         4920         4920         4920         4920          4920         4920
2. Loan Repayment
a)  Investment Share                              -             220         360          400         1520         1380         1260             -            -
b)  Seasonal Loan                                 -            5480           -            -            -            -            -             -            -
Total Outflow                         2714           10620        5280         5320         6440         6300         6180          4920         4920
Cash Balance                          2000             7060       9640        11300        10280        10580        10840         12400        12620
Withdrawals                            2000            2140       4720         6380         5360         5660         5920          7460         7700
C.  Farm Family Net Benefit
1. Value of Domestic Consumption                   4900            5000        5200         5400         5600         5900         5900          5900         5900
2. Withdrawals                                     2000            2140        4720         6380         5360         5660         5920          7460         7700
Total Net Benefit                     6900             7140       9920        11780        10960        11560        11820         13360        13600
D. Without Project Net Benefit                          6900            6900        6900        6900         6900         6900         6900          6900         6900
E.  Incremental Farm Family Net Benefit                    -             240        3020        4880         4060         4660         4920          6460         6700
F.  Family Income at Full Development:  $b 13,600 = US$680 or US$113 per capita.
Family Income Without Project:        $b  6,900 = US$345 or US$57 per capita.
Incremental Income                    $b  6,700 = US$335.
1/  Development Loan over 5 years with 2 years grace at 12%.
2/ Seasonal Loan for 12 months at 12%.
3/ Withdrawals = Cash Balance - Operating Expenses for following year.
October 15, 1975



BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Model 4 - Marketing Developmentj/
Investment and Production Data
Year 1
Category                                 Unit Cost       Unit Cash Cost         No.       Amount          Total Cost        US$ Equiv.             F.E. Component                 Local Component
($b)               ($b)                       ($b'00)        ($b'000)           (USI'OO)              7%              Amount           7.     Amount
(US$ '000)             (US$ '000)
A.  Investment Items for 50 Farms
1. Office and Store (Inputs)                        24,000           12,000              1            12               12                0.6              20               0.12            80         0.48
2. Produce Storage (Outputs)                        50,000           25,000              1            25               25                1.25             20               0.25            80         1.0
3. Shallow Well and Pump                             6,800            4,700              1             4.7              4.7              0.24             10               0.02            90         0.22
TOTAL                           80,800          41,700                           41.7             41.7               2.09             19              0.39            81          1.70
B.  Production for 50 Farms                                                ------------------------------------------ Year--------
Without Project          1                 2            3               4                  5                 6               7               8
Crops
Barley, tons                                        270              300               300          400             400                400               400             400            400
Potatoes  "                                           66             125               150          175              175               175               175             175             175
Quinoa    "                                           13.2            18                18           18               18                18                18              18              18
Wheat      "                                           1.4             1.4               1.4          1.4              1.4                1.4               1.4            1.4             1.4
Oca                                                    3               3                 3            3                3                 3                 3               3               3
Animal Products
Beef       kg                                      4,250           4,250            4,250         4,500           4,750              5,000             5,000           5,000          5,000
Milk  liter                                       15,600          15,600           16,000        17,000          17,500             18,000            18,000          18,000         18,000
Mutton      kg                                      2,000          2,000             2,000        2,000           2,000              2,000             2,000           2,000           2,000
Pork        "                                      3,000           3,000            3,000         3,100           3,100              3,250             3,250           3,250          3,250
C. Production Per Farm
Production, Yields, etc. See Table 7, Annex 1.
1/ Groups of 50 farms, each of 6 ha.
October 15, 1975
m0



BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Model 4 - Marketing Development
Sale,s and Operating Expenses
Without                                                   Project Year
Categorv                           Project         1          2           3          4          5          6           7          8           9        10-20
------------------------------------------------- $b '000 ---------------------------------------------------
A.  Cash Inflow
Total Value of Production
Price/unit ($b)
Potatoes            3000/ton                       198         375        450         525        525        525         525        525        525         525        525
Quinoa               3000/ton                       40          54          54         54         54         54          54         54         54          54         54
Wheat               4000/ton                         5            5          5          5          5          5           5          5           5          5          5
Oca                 4000/ton                        12          12          12         12         12         12          12         12         12          12         12
Beef                20/kg DWT                       85          85          85         90         95        100         100        100        100         100        100
Milk                 3.56/litre                     55           55         57         61         62         64          64         64          64         64         64
Mutton               20/kg DWT                      40          40          40         40         40         40          40         40         40          40         40
Pork                 15/kg DWT                      45          45          45         46         46         49          49         49         49          49         49
Total                                         480          671        758        833         842        849        849         849        849        849         849
Less On-Farm Consumption                           245         250         260        270        280        295         295        295        295         295        295
Total Cash Sales                                   235         421         498        563        562        554         554        554        554         554        554
B.  Cash Outflow
Total Value of Production Costs
Potato seed                                         79         120         120        120        120        120         120        120        120         120        120
Barley seed                                         32          36          36         36         36         36          36         36         36          36         36
Quinoa seed                                          3            5          5          5          5           5          5          5           5          5          5
Wheat seed                                           0.4          0.4       04         0.4        0.4        0.4         0.4       04         0.4         0.4        0.4
Oca seed                                             0.5          0.5        0.5        0.5        0.5        0.5         0.5        0.5        0.5         0.5        0.5
Manure                                              12.5         18         18         18         18          18         18         18          18         18         18
Insecticide                                           -          19         19         19         19         19          19         19         19          19         19
Labor, human                                       300         357         337        337        337        337         337        337        337         337        337
Labor, animal                                       51          51          51         51         51         51          51         51         51          51         51
Tractor hire                                          -          15.6       15.6       15.6       15.6        15.6       15.6       15.6        15.6       15.6       15.6
Sacks                                               20          20          20         20         20         20          20         20         20          20         20
Subtotal                                      498          642        642        642         642        642        642         642        642        642         642
Clerk/Storekeeper                                    -            9          9          9          9           9          9          9           9          9          9
Maintenance on buildings                             -            1          1          1           1          1          1          1           1          1           1
Total                                         498          652        652        652         652        652        652         652        652        652         652
Less Non-Cash Costs (Labor and Manure)            363          406         406        406        406        406         406        406        406         406        406
Total Cash Costs                                  135          246         246        246        246        246         246        246        246         246        246
October 15, 1975
D1
SM 
0



ANNEX 1
Table 21
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Model 4 - Marketing Development
Financial Projections After Debt Service
------------------------------------ Year --------__-_____________
Item                          Without Project         1            2            3            4            5            6            7-20
1.  GROUP OF 50 FAMILIES
Cash Inflow ($b'000)
Cash Sales                                         235              421         498          554           554          554          554           554
Development Loan                                   -                  42          -           -             -            -            -             -
Cash Carried Forward from Previous Year            -                  -          45          138           246          246          246           246
Seasonal Loan for Operating Expenses               -                246         201          108            -            -            -
TOTAL                                     235              709         744          800           800          800         800           800
Cash Outflow
Investments                                        -                 42          -            -             -            -            -            -
Cash Operating Expenses                            135              246         246          246           246          246          246           246
Loan Repayments: -
1) Development Loan From Princisatl/             -                 -            9            9             9            9            9            -
2) Development Loan Interest                     -                 -            5            4             3            2            1
3) Seasonal Loan Principal  2/                   -                246         2D1          108
4) Seasonal Loan Interest                        -                  30         25           13            -            -            -             -
TOTAL                                     135              564        486          380            257         256          256           246
CASH BALANCE                              100              145         258         420            543          544         544           554
WITHDRAWALS  3/                           100              100         120          174           297          298          298           308
2. FARM FAMILY
Cash Inflow ($b)
Cash Sales                                       4,714            8,420       9,960       11,080        11,080       11,080       11,080        11,080
Cash Carried Forward from Previous Year            -                -           910        2,688         3,400        4,920        4,920         4,920
Seasonal Loan for Operating Expenses               -              4,920       4,010        2,232         1,520          -             -            -
TOTAL                                  4,714            13,340     14,880       16,000        16,000       16,000       16,000        16,000
Cash Outflow
Cash Operating Expenses                          2,714            4,920       4,920        4,920         4,920        4,920        4,920         4,920
Loan Repayments
1) Investment Share                              -                -           280          260           240          220          200           -
2) Seasonal Loan                                 -              5,510       4,491        2,500         1,702-
TOTAL                                  2,714           10,430       9,691        7,679         6,862        5,140        5,140         4,920
CASH BALANCE                           2,000             2,910      5,188        8,320         9,137       10,800       10,860        11,080
WITHDRAWALS                             2,000            2,000       2,500       3,400         4,217        5,940        5,940         6,160
Farm Family Net Benefit
Value of Domestic Consumption                    4,900            5,000       5,200        5,400         5,600        5,900        5,900         5,900
Withdrawals                                      2.000            2,000       2.500        3400          4.217        5.940       _ 40           6,100
TOTAL                                  6,900             7,000      7,700        8,800         9,817       11,840       11,840        12,000
"Without Project" Net Benefit                      6,900            6,900       6,900        6,900         6,900        6,900        6,900         6,900
Incremental Farm Family Net Benefit                  -                 100         800       1,900         2,917        4,940        4,940         5,100
Family Income at Full Development,  $b 12,000   US$600 or US$100 per capita.
Family Income Without Project,        $b  6,900   US$345 or US$57 per capita.
Incremental Income,                   $b  5,100   US$225.
1/ Development Loan over 5 years with 0 years grace at 12%.
2/ Seasonal Loan over 12 months at 12%.
3/ Withdrawals = Cash Balance - Operating expenses for following year.
October 15, 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation System
Introduction
1.        UNDP investigated groundwater resources in the northern and central
altiplano between 1969 and 1974 (BOL-68-514). Within the total area of 50,000
km2, two priority regions were selected for detailed study: 69,000 km2 between
La Paz and Lake Titicaca and 33,000 km2 around Oruro. These regions have
dense population, the infrastructure is relatively developed, and they are
located near major markets. The La Paz region also benefits from a climate
moderated by Lake Titicaca. Of the six major aquifers identified only one,
located about 20 km southwest of La Paz, is overlain with soils suitabie
for irrigated agriculture. The project area encompasses this aquifer.
Irrigation Area
2.        Soils.  Lands on the greater portion of the altiplano are gravelly,
generally with shallow soil, and there are extensive strips having a high
groundwater level with dispersed saline lands, usually in low lying spots,
and near the streams. The area proposed for irrigation is located approxi-
mately in the center of the project area, to the southeast of the provincial
capital of Viacha. Most of the lands are uniform, with a very gentle slope
(2%). Some, however, is slightly rolling and would require land leveling.
The top soils are medium to deep, reasonably permeable, moisture retentive,
and appear well suited for irrigation, while heavy clay with less permeability
can be found near the streams. A zone of high watertable is located on the
western side of the area. To prevent seepage through the light soils and
cracks which could develop in the clay-soil area, it would be necessary to
line canals. Drains for internal drainage purposes would be needed in the
clay zone and in the high water level zone particularly.
3.        Rainfall.  Annual rainfall is about 500 mm, with approximately 60%
falling in the peak period of December to February. However, since less
than 200 mm is reliable, the crops proposed to be grown such as alfalfa and
potatoes, which require up to 460 mm and 407 mm of water throughout their
growing periods, respectively, would have to be supplemented by irrigation
to achieve their full yields.
4.        Water Supply.  The potential for surface water development is ex-
tremely limited because of the high rate of percolation of the streams and
the lack of storage areas. Many of these streams actually disappear before
they reach Lake Titicaca but the water they lose is the major replenishment
for the aquifers underneath. Water would, therefore, be drawn from the
aquifer that has good soils associated with it, since it is the only one
which can be exploited economically.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        The UNDP study identified the project aquifer on the basis of
hydro-geological data which were obtained from about 20 test holes in the
vicinity. The selected aquifer was located at a depth of from about 10 m
to 150 m below the project area, and it covers about 70 km2. It is composed
of gravel, sand and clay in different proportions at different depths, but
gravel and sand are the main components, which means that a large amount of
water could be stored in it. The findings reveal also that artesian water
lies below impermeable clay beds (Lacustrine sediments) whereas static
groundwater is located above the beds. Based on a conservatively expected
specified yield of 10%, 5 mm3 could be pumped from the 500 mm3 of groundwater
contained in this aquifer. The project irrigation requirement is 4.4 rm3/
year (Table 1), so supply would be adequate. Water quality ranges between
C1Sl and C2S1, 1/ which is acceptable for the crops to be grown.
Scope and Main Features
6.        About 1,000 ha of the 7,000 ha identified as suitable soil over
the selected aquifer would be irrigated by pumping groundwater from 20 deep
wells spaced at 2-km intervals. Each well would command an area of 75 ha,
of which 50 ha would be irrigated in any given year. Each well system would
have the following main features:
(a) A well sunk to a depth up to 140 m in the aquifer;
(b) A submersible pump (with 55 hp electric motor);
(c) A distribution system lined with soil cement to
carry water to each 6-ha plot;
(d)  A 1,000 m3-capacity water tank to regulate water
from the well;
(e) Farm drains at intervals of about 200 m for both
surface and internal drainage. (The exact spacing
in each zone would be determined during the de-
tailed design stage.);
(f)  A path (1.5 m wide) along the drains to provide
access for maintenance of the system;
(g) Improved natural drains to carry drainage water
to the main streams; and
(h) Land leveling on 75 ha.
1/   These classifications refer to U.S. Salinity Laboratory Standards.
C1S1 indicates low salinity (65-100 ppm) and low sodium hazard. C2S1
indicates medium salinity (160-500 ppm) and low sodium hazard.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
7.        The Bolivia Power Company (BPC) would extend a line south from
Viacha and provide connections to the individual wells. The cost of this
installation would be about $b 5.8 million, but it would result in a capital
cash cost saving for the 20 wells of about $b 6.2 million over a diesel
alternative. If amortization of the power line investment were included
in the rate to be charged to the wells, it would result in a tariff of about
$b 1.06/kwh. The resulting annual operating cash cost would be about the
same as that for the diesel alternative ($b 82,000 (US$4,100) per well)
Since an electric motor is easier to operate and maintain than a diesel,
the electrical alternative is superior--both economically and technically--to
the diesel.
Cropping Pattern and Water Requirements
8.        The main irrigated crops would be alfalfa (70%) and potatoes (30%).
Using the Modified Blaney-Criddle method, which takes into account the crop
growth stage coefficients adjusted to the conditions prevailing in the pro-
ject area, the annual water requirement would be 470 mm for alfalfa and 375
mm for potatoes. The total annual irrigation water requirement expressed in
volume would be 4,500 m3/ha/year 225,000 m3/well/year or 4.4 mm3/year.
9.        Peak demands would occur in October/November and would be at the
rate of about 36,000 m3 per month. The proposed pump and motor (para 6)
would have a capacity of 144 m3/hour, so it can adequately meet peak re-
quirements.
Cost
10.       The unit investment and operating costs per well are given in Table
2. Investment cost would amount to $b 1.91 million (US$96,000), of which
$b 1.42 million (US$71,000) would be cash cost. Operating cost would be
$b 202,000 per year, of which $b 82,000 (US$4,100) would be cash cost.
11.       Aggregate investment and operating costs are given in Table 3.
Investment cost would amount to $b 38.2 million (US$1.9 million) of which
$b 28.3 million (US$1.4 million) would be cash cost. Operating cost would
rise from $b 810,000 (US$41,000) or $b 330,000 (US$17,000) cash cost, in
project year two to $b 4.04 million (US$220,000, or cash cost $b 1.64
million (US$82,000) in project year four and subsequent years.
Cost Sharing and Recovery
12.       Beneficiaries would contribute 26% to investment cost in the form
of labor and would receive from the Agricultural Bank (BAB) a loan for the
remainder. They would also contribute to operating cost--56%--and would
receive working capital financing from BAB for the remainder.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Implementation
13.       Design work and training of common irrigators would be carried out
by the Project Unit itself, but the remaining tasks would be undertaken by
other agencies, under the Project Unit's supervision, as follows:
(a) Mapping -- the Military Geographical Institute;
(b) Well construction and development, including
installing pumps and motors, building water tanks
and connection outfits--Geological Survey of
Bolivia (GEOBOL);
(c) Construction of distribution and drainage
systems--National Community Development Service
(SNDC) or private contractors, with beneficiary
participation;
(d) Natural drainage improvement -- SNDC or private
contractors, with beneficiary participation; and
(e) Land leveling -- beneficiaries.
A groundwater irrigation specialist would be retained for a three-year period
by the Project Unit to provide technical assistance.
14.       Implementation would occur over a three-year period, with engineer-
ing and surveying being carried out in year one and construction in years two
and three. Ten wells would be sunk in year two and the rest in year three.
The distribution system, drains and on-farm work would be started simultaneous-
ly with each well construction. Well construction alone should be completed
in two months'; however, the distribution system and on-farm work may take up
to six months.
15.       Prior to the construction of the wells, the area would be surveyed
in detail, the wells designed, the sites selection finalized, and the safe
yield of the aquifer checked by the Project Unit. The resulting analysis
would be reviewed by the Bank before construction was initiated. Organization
of the farmer groups wishing to install a well and formation of their 75-ha
irrigation areas also would occur prior to well construction. Since 10 wells
would be installed in year two and to in year three, 10 groups would have
to be organized by the beginning of each year.
16.       Each irrigation system, consisting of well and equipment, storage
tank, and distribution and drainage system, would be owned and operated by
a farmer group which would allocate water to the irrigated area as required
by the cropping pattern. A common irrigator would be hired by the group,
probably from among its own members, and made responsible for distributing



ANNEX 2
Page 5
the water according to the plan prepared by the group. He would also direct
the efforts of members contributing labor for maintenance work. The Project
Unit would assist the group in performing trials to determine the optimum
slope of the land, layout of the water courses, plan for water allocation,
and operation and maintenance of the system.
November 24, 1975



B O L I V I A
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation System
Project Water Requirement Assessment
JAN       FEB       MAR       APR      MAY          JUN        JUL         AUG         SEP         OCT         NOV          DEC     ANNUAL
Rainfall-75% probability-mm            68         74       35        22        --          --          --         --           3            9          29          77          317
Temperature 0 C                         8.8        8.5      8.8       8.7       8.0         6.9         6.9        7.8         8.3         9.5          9.8         9.4
Alfalfa
Consumptive use            mm          62.5      83.8      53.3      38.9                                         22.4        32.5        44.7         58.2        63.8      460.1
Effective rainfall        nmn          40.0       50.0     25.0      10.0                                          --         --          --           16.0        47.0       188.0
Irrigation requirement  nmm            22.5      33.8      28.3      28.9                                         22.4        32.5        44.7        42.2         16.8       272.1
Potatoes
Consumptive use           mm           76.5      69.1      68.3                                                   11.7        19.1        34.8         56.6        71.1      407.2
Effective rainfall        mm           40.0       50.0     25.0                                                    --         --          --           15.0        50.0       180.0
Irrigation requirement   mm            36.5      19.1      43.3                                                   11.7        19.1        34.8        41.6        21.1       227.2
Irrigation water requirements
for project cropping pattern
at 60% efficiency
707 Alfalfa              m3/ha    280         420       350       350                                          280         385         525         490         210       3,290
30% Potatoes             m3/ha    180          90       210        ---                                          60          90         180         210         105       1,125
Project Total            m3/ha    460         510       560       350                                          340         475         705         700         315       4,415
for 1,000 ha              Mm3          6.460      0.510    0.560    0.350                                          0.340       0.475       0.705       0.700       0.315       4.415
(20 wells serving 50 ha each)
October 15, 1975
If 



ANNEX 2
Table 2
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation System
Unit Investment and Current ;ash Costs
($b '000)
Investment Cost
Component                                          Amount
Drilling                                             507
Pump and motor                                       116
Storage tank                                         130
Distribution and drainage system                     123
Natural drain improvement                            264
Land leveling                                          -
Engineering and supervision                           92
Subtotal                                       1,232
Physical contingency (15%)                           185
Total                                          1,417
Current Cost_
Component                                          Amount
Energy                                                64
Maintenance                                             2
Common irrigator                                       9
Subtotal                                          75
Physical contingency (10%)                             7
Total                                             82
1/ Includes 10Q allowance for spare parts.
November 24, 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 3
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation System
Investment and Current Cash Costs
($b '000)
Investment Cost
Year
Component                1         2         3               Total
Wells (20)             4,820    11,900    11,620             28,340
Current Cost
Year
Com_onent                          2         3      4-20
Operation and
maintenance            -         330       820    1,640
November 24, 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit System
Project Unit
1.        The Project Unit would have full responsibility for credit opera-
tions under the project. It would prepare development plans for farmer groups
and draw up subloan applications, based on those plans, which would be approved
by the project manager. The subloan applications then would be forwarded to
the Agricultural Bank of Bolivia (BAB), for disbursement, and the Project Unit
would supervise implementation of the plans, authorizing disbursements by BAB
as work progressed. The Project Unit would also undertake the collection of
subloan payments by subborrowers, with the cooperation of BAB personnel.
Agricultural Bank of Bolivia
2.        BAB would act as the financial agent, responsible for processing
loan applications and disbursing funds. It would not have authority to
reject subloan applications. Since payments would be made to the Central
Bank only as amounts were received from subborrowers, BAB would not carry
any financial risk. As compensation for its participation in the project,
BAB would receive a commission of 2% on outstanding subloan amounts. In
order to comply with its obligations, BAB would establish an office in
Viacha.
3.        BAB currently is the executing agency for the Third Livestock Pro-
ject (261-BO) and the Agricultural Credit Project (561-BO). Some difficulty
had been experienced in the execution of the livestock project 261-BO, but
the situation has improved and progress is now satisfactory. The credit
project 561-BO has just started. Although BAB has incurred some substantial
losses in recent years as a result of the devaluation of 1972 and the lack of
appropriate administrative policies and procedures, a new general manager has
been appointed and a management consulting firm has been retained to assist
in a reorganization.
Items Financed by Subloans
4.        Long- and medium-term subloans would be provided for irrigation
systems, livestock facilities (including pasture, breeding animals, and hand-
ling and watering facilities), tractors, and storage facilities. Short-term
subloans would be made available for working capital. Subloans would be made
available to farmer groups which had been formed to implement joint develop-
ment plans and to contractors (for tractors). Tractors would be financed only
for those irrigation groups and contractors who convince the Project Unit



ANNEX 3
Page 2
that they have the capability to operate and maintain a tractor effectively.
However, preferences for the purchase of tractors would be given to farmer
groups over contractors.
Channeling of Funds
5.        Proceeds of the Bank loan and the Government contribution would be
disbursed to the Central Bank, which would set up accounts for each of the
project components: on-farm investments, incremental production credit, tech-
nical services, roads, health facilities, and drinking water and waste facili-
ties. In the case of on-farm investments (except when irrigation or tractors
are involved) and incremental production credit, the Central Bank would disburse
funds to BAB on the basis of evidence of disbursement by BAB on subloans to
project beneficiaries approved by the project manager. Funds would be repaid
by BAB to the Central Bank as payments were received from project beneficiaries
and would be available for further lending in the project area.
6.        For irrigation systems, disbursements would be made by the Central
Bank, with the authorization of the project director, to agencies such as the
Geological Survey of Bolivia (GEOBOL), which would undertake preparatory
work. At the time that construction of a specific well started, the portion
of preparation cost allocated to that well would be transferred to the farm
group's subloan account with BAB. A similar procedure would be followed
with tractors if payments were required before delivery could be made to in-
dividual farmer groups and contractors.
7.        Disbursements for technical services would be made by the Central
Bank directly to the Project Unit. Disbursements for roads would be made to
the National Roads Service (SNC), and, for health, drinking water, and waste
facilities, to the Ministry of Social Security and Public Health (MPSSP) on
authorization of the project manager. The Project Unit would monitor the work
of these agencies and authorize progress payments.
8.        As compensation for its services, the Central Bank would receive a
commission of 1/4% on outstanding subloan amounts.
January 26, 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services
General
1.        Technical services would cover a range of activities and func-
tions, from the organization of the Project Unit by the Government with the
assistance of a specialist in project administration, to the operation of
irrigation systems by farmer groups with the assistance of the Project Unit,
to the improvement and maintenance of roads by the National Roads Service
(SNC) with farmer groups' participation. The common denominator in almost
all cases would be the involvement of farmer groups. They would participate,
in varying degrees, in the construction of facilities and would have respon-
sibility, to the maximum extent feasible, for the operation and maintenance
of the facilities. Thus, the focus of the project would be on farmer group
actions with the assistance of an outside agency, at times involving the
guidance of consultants.
2.        Economic and social infrastructure works besides roads would in-
clude health posts, a hospital, drinking water supply wells, and privies. The
Ministry of Social Security and Public Health (MPSSP) would supervise the
construction of these facilities (under the general supervision of the Project
Unit) with the participation of farmer groups in construction varying from a
7% contribution to the hospital rehabilitation to 70% in the case of privies.
The degree of farmer group responsibility for operation and maintenance of
these facilities would correspond roughly to the magnitude of their contribution
to construction. Assistance to MPSSP in planning and implementing the well
and privy programs would be provided by a specialist in sanitary engineering,
who would be recruited for a period of four years.
3.        Directly-productive components would be carried out with the assis-
tance of the Project Unit. In this case, farmer groups would have almost
complete responsibility for the decision relating to the installation, opera-
tion, and maintenance of the facilities (irrigation systems, livestock and
storage facilities, and tractors). They would also bear the full cost of
the facilities through initial contributions and repayment of debt financing
(the stipulation on the use of debt repayments is contained in para 3.16 of
the main text).
Project Unit
4.        Organization.  The Project Unit has been formed as a semi-autono-
mous agency under the aegis of the Ministry of Peasant Affairs and Agricul-
ture (MACA). Its scope of responsibility and authority is set forth



ANNEX 4
Page 2
in a decree and statutes, and the Unit has its own organizational structure,
administration, operations and funds. Policy for the Project Unit would be
established by a board of directors which would be composed of a representative
and an alternate from MACA, the Ministry of Planning and Coordination, the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Security and Public Health (MPSSP),
and the semi-autonomous agencies, the Department of La Paz Development Corpora-
tion (CORDEPAZ), the Agricultural Bank (BAB), Agricultural technicians from
MACA, the project manager, and project farmers (Table 1). The representative
of MACA would be the chairman of the board; and the representative of CORDEPAZ,
vice-chairman. In addition to establishing policy, the board would appoint
the project manager, approve annual budgets and work plans, and ensure effec-
tive coordination among participating agencies (Schedule A). Meetings of the
board would be held monthly during the project implementation period. Each
participating agency would designate someone from within its own organization
to function as the working-level contact for the project manager. Thus, most
coordination should be effected as this level without involving the board of
directors.
5.        The chief executive officer of the Project Unit is the project
manager, who has been recruited from among Bolivians with international
experience. He would be responsible only to the board of directors and
have the functions and duties specified in Schedule A. He would be supported
by a project deputy manager and by a nucleus of staff which would be drawn
from some of the participating agencies: an agriculturalist, a livestock
technician, and an irrigation engineer from MACA; an agriculturalist and a
livestock technician from BAB; and a group organization specialist (promoter)
and a group management specialist from SNDC. Additional staff would be
recruited from outside the Government. Salaries would be maintained at levels
comparable to those of other semi-autonomous agencies such as CORDEPAZ, in
order to attract and hold qualified personnel.
6.        The Project Unit would be located in Viacha, which is situated
within the project area and is the capital of the Ingavi Province. It would
have a liaison office in La Paz. Project staff, including the consultants,
would live in Viacha.
7.        Functions.  The Project Unit would have two main departments:  the
Services Department and the Engineering Department. The former would provide
technical assistance to farmer groups on agricultural and livestock development
and on organization and management of groups. Agriculture and livestock acti-
vities would include advising farmer groups on cultivating and animal husbandry
techniques (including control of health problems); preparing farm development
plans for groups and assisting them in the implementation of the plans; grant-
ing subloans (for tractors, irrigation systems, livestock investments, storage
facilities, and working capital); collecting and disseminating information on
input prices and supplies, and product prices and markets; assisting groups
in the purchase of inputs and the sale of products; implementing a program of
demonstration farm trials (with the cooperation of the Belen and Patacamaya
experiment stations); and training technicians and farmers. Training for both
technicians and farmers would involve courses at the experiment stations of



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Belen and Patacamaya and field training. In addition, technicians would
participate in BAB courses in farm plan preparation and financing. An adult
literacy program for farmers would be introduced to enable them to assimilate
better the technical assistance provided and begin to utilize information
available from commercial sources.
8.        With respect to the organization and management of groups, the
department would assist farmers in the creation of groups and in the planning
and organizing of their operations. As part of the guidance on administra-
tive matters, this department would help groups establish and operate a
simple accounting system and would assist them in registering with the
appropriate Government agencies. Training would be provided to group members
in management and accounting at the nearby training center operated by SNDC,
as well as in the field.
9.        One responsibility of the Engineering Department would be the
purchase of tractors through local competitive bidding, after sufficient
tractor applications had been received from groups and contractors to form
a contract attractive to international bidders (about 10 tractors). Particular
emphasis would be placed on the adequacy of service to be provided by the
supplier, especially with regard to the maintenance of spare parts stocks.
Initial training for tractor operators would be provided by the supplier,
while follow-up training and assistance in planning and executing tractor
operations would be provided by the Project Unit.
10.       Another responsibility of this department would be the supervision
of construction and operation of the irrigation systems. The design work
and well siting would be done by this department. However, the mapping,
the purchasing of pumps, etc., the drilling of wells, and the construction of
the distribution and drainage systems would be undertaken by other agencies
(or farmer groups) under the supervision of this department. It would train
the common irrigators in the operation and maintenance of the irrigation
systems, primarily in the field. This department would also supervise the
construction of storage and livestock facilities (by SNDC with farmer group
participation or, in some cases, by private contractors) and the roads, health,
drinking water, and waste facilities by SNC and MPSSP under agreements with the
Project Unit. To make this supervision of other agencies' work effective, the
Project Unit (specifically the project director) would authorize disbursements
from the project account as the work progressed.
11.       Consultants.  Three specialists would be recruited to assist the
Project Unit for a period of three years: one each in the fields of project
administration, groundwater irrigation, and marketing and credit. Also, a
specialist in sanitary engineering would be provided for a four-year period
to assist MPSSP in the implementation of the drinking water and waste com-
ponent. In addition, provision would be made for the retention of consultants
on short-term assignments, including agricultural machinery, adult literacy,
dairy livestock, crop/pasture, and sociology specialists. Terms of reference
for the consultants are given in Schedule B.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Monitoring
12.       The project target group of 60,000 people out of a population of
some two million rural poor in similar conditions in the altiplano makes the
scope for replicating the development procedures and techniques applied here
very great. This is the first integrated rural development effort in the
region and much basic information required for implementation and planning is
either lacking or of limited reliability. The resulting uncertainty requires
assumptions about key variables to be made by informed judgment often based
on sketchy data. Collection of information to fill data gaps would be a
valuable but unmeasured output of the project and would provide a basis for
management decisions during implementation as well as influence design and
implementation of further projects in the altiplano.
13.       Data collection would be directed towards providing project manage-
ment with rapid feedback to permit appropriate modifications to be made, and
towards enabling an evaluation of how well the chosen strategy was achieving
basic project objectives: (a) to improve the welfare of the rural poor and
(b) to provide a model for further development efforts. Cross-section and
time-series data would measure welfare changes by looking at higher per
capita incomes, improved health, more egalitarian income distribution, etc.
Information would be collated according to the means used to effect these
changes: (a) improvement of crop cultivation and livestock husbandry, (b)
formulation of buying/selling tactics for inputs/outputs and (c) provision
of social infrastructure.
14.       Specific details would focus on farmer acceptance and the technical
performance of the development instruments of (a) provision of long-term cre-
dit for on-farm inves8tl.eAts in well irrigation, limited mechanization, dairy
livestock facioitt      .        c-tt', forage crops, storage facilities, etc.,
(b) provision of short-term credit for improved potato seed, insecticide,
fertilizer, etc., (c) technical advice and assistance to participants and
(d) provision of roads and health, water, and waste facilities.
Examples of information collected would be:
(a) Sociological: number of users of health services, changes
in nutrition, family incomes, participants' comments, problems
and suggestions about the project.
(b) Financial: prices paid and received at the farm and group
level, costs and returns for productive investments, on-farm
consumption, costs of services provided and recovery of
costs, credit data.
(c) Technical: base yields, yield response to improved techniques,
yield and output variance and causes (rainfall, frost incidence,
etc.).



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(d) Organizational: formation and participation of groups (number
of groups, number of members, administrative performance,
operating results, adequacy of records), effectiveness of
technical assistance structure (procedures, technician/group
ratio, etc.).
Much data are already available--e.g. rainfall is measured at Viacha--and much
is available from data collected for other purposes. This would reduce the
burden on the Project Unit while providing a central source of reliable and
relevant data.
Cost and Cost Sharing
15.       The cost of technical services (all of which would be cash cost),
including salaries, vehicles, office equipment, training, demonstrations, and
consultants for the Project Unit, plus the consultant sanitary engineer for
NPSSP, would be $b 47.0 million (US$2.4 million) over the five-year project
period (Table 2). Recurrent costs (all cash costs) starting at $b 5.9 million
(US$0.3 million) in the sixth year and decreasing gradually thereafter, would
be borne fully by the Government. No recovery of technical services costs
would be sought from project beneficiaries.
February 2, 1976



BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Service
Project Unit Organization
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Ministry of Peasant Affairs and Agriculture
Ministry of Planning and Coordination
Ministry of Finance
Agricultural Technician, MACA
CORDEPAZ
BAB
Project Manager
Project Farmers
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PROJECT MANAGER
Deputy Project Manager
Administration
Sevie Deatmn                                                      Engineering Department
Services              Development                                  Irrigation              Machinery
World Bank - 15269(R)                             I:



ANNEX 4
Table 2
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services
Investment Cash Cost
(amounts in $b 'TUG)
---------------------------------- Year --------------------------------
Unit           1                2                3                4                5           Total   Total
Item                                      Unit        Cost    No.   Amount   No.   Amount   No.   Amount   No.   Amount   No.   Amount   Units    Cost
Staff
Project director                        man-year    240         1        240    1          240     1        240    1         240    1         240      5      1,200
Deputy project director                    "          192       1        192     1         192     1        192     1        192    1         192      5         960
Department chiefs                          "          168       2        336    2         336      2        336    2         336    2         336     10      1,680
Veterinarian                               "          144       1        144    1          144    1         144    1         144     1        144      5        720
Extensionists                                         120       6        720    8         960   10       1,200    10      1,200   10        1,200    44       5,280
Group officers                             "           96       2        192    3         288    4          384    4         384    4         384    17       1,632
Irrigation engineers                       "          144       2        288    2         288    2          288    2         288    2         288    10       1,440
Irrigation technicians                     "           96       3        288    3         288    3          288    3         288    3         288    15       1,440
Machinery technicians                                  72       2        144    2          144    2         144    2         144    2         144    10          720
Training officer                           "          120       1        120     1        120      1        120     1        120    1         120      5        600
Clerical staff                             "           43       5        215    5          215    5         215    5         215    5         215     25      1,075
Miscellaneous                                          29       5        145    5          145    5         145    5         145    5         145    25          725
Subtotal                                     31       3,024   34       3,360   37       3,696   37       3,696   37       3,696   176       17,472
Administration Costs
Personnel travel                           "           25       8        200   11         275   14         350   14          350   14         350    61       1,525
Vehicle operating costs            vehicle-year        25      14        350   16         400   18          450   18         450   18         450    84       2,100
Office costs                              year        120       -        120    -          120     -        120    -         120    -         120      -        600
Demonstration program                      "           80       -         80    -           80    -          80    -          80    -          80      -        400
Subtotal                                                750              875            1,000            1,000             1,000             4,625
Training Program                                      240       -        240    -         240    -          240    -           -    -           -      -        720
Facilities
Office rental                              "           40       1         40    1          40    1           40     1         40     1         40      5        200
Garage and storage                                     30       1         30     1          30    1          30    1          30    1          30      5         150
Mousing                                               100       6        600     6        600    6          600    6         600    6         600    30       3,000
Subtotal                                                670              670              670              670               670             3,350
Equipment
Four wheel drive vehicles                unit         200      10      2,000     -           -    -           -    -           -    -           -    10       2,000
Trucks                                     "          300       1        300    -            -    1         300    -           -    -           -      2        600
Motorcycles                                            10      10        100   10          100    5          50    -           -    -           -    25          250
Tractor and implements                                662       1        662    -            -    -           -    -           -    -           -      1        662
Irrigation spare parts                    L/S         200       -        200    -            -    -           -    -           -    -           -      -        200
Communication equipment                               200       -        150    -          50    -            -    -           -    -           -      -        200
Office equipment                                      140       -        140    -            -    -           -    -           -    -        _         -         140
Subtotal                                              3,552              150              350                 -                -             4,052
Subtotal                                              8,236            5,295            5,956            5,366            5,366             30,219
Consultant Services
Resident
Project administrator                   man-year    900         1        900     1        900     1         900     -          -    -           -      3      2,700
Irrigation engineer                                  840        1        840     1        840     1        840      -          -    -           -      3      2,520
Marketing and credit specialist            "          840       1        840     1        840      1        840     -          -    -           -      3      2,520
Sanitary engineer                          "          840       1        840     1        840     1         840    1         840    -           -      4      3,360
Subtotal                                       4      3,420     4      3,420    4       3,420     1         840    -           -    13    11,100
Short-Term
Agricultural machinery specialist  man-month   120              2        240     1         120    -           -    -           -    -           -      3        360
Adult literacy specialist                             120       2        240     1         120    -           -            _ _   _ _                   3        360
Dairy livestock specialist                            120       1        120    1          120    -           -    -           _    _           -      2        240
Crop/pasture specialist                               120       1        120    1         120    -            -    -           -    -           -      2        240
Sociologist                                           120       1        120    1         120    -            -    -           -    -           -      2        240
Subtotal                                       7        840    5         600    -            -    -           -    -           -    12       1,440
Subtotal                                             4,260             4,020            3,420               840                -            12,540
Subtotal                                             12,496            9,315            9,376            6,206            5,366            42,759
Physical Contingency (10%)                                             1.204              985               924              594              534             4.241
Total                                                13,700           10,300           10,300            6,800            5,900             47,000
October 14, 1975



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road System
Background
1.        The project area is linked to La Paz by the asphalt road between
Viacha and La Paz, the asphalt road along the northern boundary between
Laja and La Paz, and the asphalt road along the eastern boundary which runs
south from La Paz toward Oruro (Map IBRD-11737). The remaining network
within the project area is composed of gravel roads, dirt roads and dirt
tracks in varying conditions. Since the dirt roads and tracks are impassable
during the rainy season and some of the roads need repair to permit passage
in any season, a road program would be implemented under the project.
2.        Adequate transportation in the project area on a year-round basis
would be essential for the development of the area. In general, a suitable
road network would be needed for the movement of inputs to farms, produce to
markets, and Project Unit personnel throughout the area.  Of particular im-
portance during the rainy season, however, is the transportation of fresh
milk to the dairy plant, timely supply of vegetables to markets, and access
to the health centers (for visits of the mobile health unit and referral of
patients to the hospital). Therefore, all-weather roads would be required.
Scope and Main Features
3.        The proposed road program would bring all major concentrations of
population within about 3 km of a road, or about the distance that a loaded
donkey could walk in an hour.
4.        All roads would be all-weather roads with a 15-cm gravel surface.
The major differences among the roads would be the width, height above
ground level, and drainage works. The three classifications of road to
be included in the project are given below according to width:
(a)  6-m road would have a height of 0.65 m
above ground level and have three culverts
per km.
(b)  5-m road would have a height of 0.30 m
above ground level and have one culvert
per km.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(c)  4-m road would have a height of 0.30 m
above ground level and have one culvert
per km.
5.        Existing dirt tracks would be upgraded to roads, existing roads
would be improved, and all would be maintained during the project implementa-
tion period of five years by SNC (Government would be solely responsible for
maintenance after the implementation period). Drainage structures would be in-
stalled as required. The main features would be:
(a)  Improvement of about 10 km of 6-m road.  The
degree of improvement necessary is about 20%,
equivalent to 2 km of road to be constructed.
(b)  Improvement of about 20 km of 5-m road.  The
degree of improvement necessary is about 85%,
equivalent to 52 km of road to be constructed.
(c)  Improvement of about 55 km of 4-m road or track.
The degree of improvement necessary is about
95%, equivalent to 52 km of road to be con-
structed.
Cost
6.        The investment cost per km of 5-m road would be about $b 224,000
(US$11,200), of which $b 170,000 (US$8,500) would be cash cost, and the cur-
rent (maintenance) cost per km per year would be $b 12,000 (US$660), of which
$b 8,400 (US$420) would be cash cost. Total investment cost for the component
would be $b 19.5 million (US$975,000): $b 18.9 million (US$945,000) for road
improvement and $b 580,000 (US$29,000) for maintenance during the project
period. The corresponding cash costs would be a total of $b 15.5 million
(US$777,000), with $b 15.1 million (US$755,000) for improvement and $b 410,000
(US$20,500) for maintenance during construction. Total current (maintenance)
cost would rise from $b 600,000 (US$30,000) in year 6 to $b 900,000 (US$45,000)
average for years 7 to 15. The corresponding cash costs would be $b 420,000
(US$21,000) and $b 630,000 (US$31,500). Cost estimates are based on unit
quantities and costs calculated by the National Roads Service (SNC). Table 1
shows the individual roads to be improved, the degree of improvement required
and the cash cost per road, while Table 2 gives the investment and current
cash cost for the component.
Cost Sharing and Recovery
7.        Project beneficiaries would contribute about 20% to the cost of
roads improvement and about 30% to the cost of road maintenance in the form
of unskilled labor. The remaining costs would be financed by the Bank and the
Government and would not be recovered from the beneficiaries. Current
(maintenance) cost for the sixth and subsequent years would be borne by the
Government except for the road work tax of three days of work per year per
family.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Implementation
8.        SNC would implement the road component under the supervision of
the Project Unit. The Project Unit would advise SNC on the priorities for
road improvement and would review the detailed work program prepared by SNC.
9.        SNC would also conduct necessary field investigations, prepare
engineering plans and designs, and provide the necessary equipment, supplies
and skilled labor to carry out the work program. Unskilled labor would be
provided by project beneficiaries. The road construction work would be done
by force account of SNC since contracted work is costly for secondary and
feeder roads.
10.       Implementation would be carried out over three years, with engineer-
ing design and some construction work (primarily on 4-m roads) in year one
and the major construction effort in years two and three (Table 2).
11.       Annual maintenance of the project roads would include regrading by
motor graders after the wet season, some spot gravelling, and drainage clear-
ing. SNC would carry out this work by force account with the participation
of project beneficiaries.
November 24, 1975



ANNEX 5
Table I
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road System
Froject Roads
Degree
Improvement  Equivalent    Unit          Total
Length    Required   Distance    Cash Cost   Cash Cost
(km)       3%)        (km)      ($b'000/km)   ($b'000)
6-m Roads
Viacha-Capiri                    10        20            2          330           660
5-m Roads
Viacha-Remedios                  20         85          17           179        3,0146
Additional drainage works                                                     1 _,184
Subtotal           20         85          17                      4,230
4-m Roads
Pan de Azucar Access              2       100            2           146          291
Irpa Chico Access                 4       100            4          146           582
Additional drainage works                                                        77
Achica Abajo Access               8       100            8           146        1 ,165
Additional drainage works                                                       384
Collahua-Coniri                  10       100           10          146         1,456
Collahua Farm Access              5       100            5          146           728
Chujnupa-Road 1350                3       100            3          146           437
Chacoma Grande-Road 1350          3       100            3          146           437
Additional drainage works                                                       230
Tacagua-Road 107                  3       100            3          146           437
Achica-Road 1                     2       100            2          146           291
Masu Cruz-Road 1                  2       100            2           146          291
Capiri-Trinidad                   5       100            5          146           728
Trinidad-Viacha                   8         70           5          146           728
Subtotal            55        95          52                      8,262
Total              85         84          71                     13,1 52
')ctober 21, 1 975



ANNEX 5
Table 2
BOLIVIA
INGAVI 1RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road System
Investment and Current Cash Costs
($b '000)
Investment Co st
Component                          --------- Year --------------
1       2        3        4        5     Total
6-m Road (2 kml/)            64      595      -        -        -       659
5-m Road (17                632   1,904   1 ,694       -        -    4,230
4-m Road (52 krc_/)       1 ,240   3,720   3,303       -        -    8,263
Maintenance                  -        13       64     102      190      369
Subtotal        1,936   6,232   5,061       102      190  13,521
Physical Contingency
(155 on construction
and 1 0% on mainte-
nance)                    294     938      759        8       20   2,019
Total           2,230   7,170   5,820       110      210  15,540
Current Cost
Component                 ----------------------- Year -----------------------
1       2        3        4        5       6       7-15
Maintenan.ce                --                        -        -        382      573
Physical Contingency
(1c0)                             -                 -                 38       57
Total                                                         4 -  _  _  _  420  630
1/  Equivalent km. A greater length of road would actually be improved.
October 21, 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health Component
A. Background
1.        The health status of the population of the project area is similar
to that of other poor rural areas, in Bolivia. Communicable diseases, pri-
marily respiratory and gastrointestinal, along with trauma, malnutrition and
pregnancy complications, are the major causes of morbidity and mortality.
Reliable statistics do not exist for the project area but the crude death
rate for Bolivia is estimated at 10 per 1,000, one of the highest in Latin
America, and infant mortality in the rural areas, while estimated at 154 per
1,000 live births, is probably closer to 250 per 1,000 due to severe under-
reporting.
2.        Much of the observed mortality and morbidity of the project area
is preventable. The gastrointerestinal diseases would be greatly reduced
with the existence of adequate drinking water and sanitation (see Annex 7,
Water and Waste System). Improved nutrition would decrease both maternal and
infant mortality and morbidity in addition to increasing the resistance of
all persons to disease (the increased production and consumption by the
project area population as part of the overall project would contribute to
improved nutrition). Basic medical care (e.g. vaccinations, primary medical
care, etc.) would also reduce the incidence and virulence of the most important
diseases affecting the project area.
Facilities
3.        In addition to the traditional healers and midwives, where most
people receive care, there is one hospital at Viacha and one operating health
post at Laja in the project area. The Viacha hospital is classified as a
"Health Center Hospital". As of late 1974, it had one full-time and one
part-time physician assigned by the Ministry of Social Welfare and the Public
Health (MPSSP). A railroad physician is there half-time. The 34-bed hospital
was constructed a few years ago with the cooperation of the Health Ministry
and the Railroad Union. In addition, a 12-bed annex was completed in 1973
through US donations. The hospital is relatively well-equipped with most
equipment coming from US donations. The x-ray unit is old but functioning.
The hospital is considered one of the best rural facilities in Bolivia in
that it has: (i) a laboratory equipped to do biochemistry and bacteriology;
(ii) a good administration run by experienced nuns with financial support
from religious sources in the US; and (iii) a health education program involv-
ing many village leaders in surrounding communities.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Utilization
4.        Utilization of the Viacha hospital for in-patient services is high
for rural Bolivia, but actually quite low (40-50% bed occupancy). Out-patient
utilization has been about 300 visits per month, in addition to the Railroad
Union patients who share the facility. This gives a utilization rate of 0.07
visits per person per year for the project area population, indicating that
the local population barely utilizes the Viacha facility. For many people
it has been easier to reach La Paz because of the transportation and the
security that medical attention will be available. There is one health post
in operation, at Laja. Recently, health posts were installed in Coniri and
Irpachico. However, these posts were discontinued because of low utilization.
5.        One seemingly successful program operating in the project area is
the Mothers' Clubs. Twelve of these clubs are supervised by the Nutrition
Division of the Ministry of Health, with some 1,500 participating mothers.
The clubs are organized to: (i) distribute donated foods (US P.L.480);
(ii) provide nutrition education; and (iii) develop (eventually) consumer
coops.
Obstacles
6.        The major obstacles for developing health programs in the project
area, as in other areas, are: (i) lack of community interest (probably due
to previous irrelevance of various programs); (ii) inadequate staffing and
training; (iii) inadequate supervision, maintenance of supplies and admin-
istration; and (iv) poor financial support.
B. The Project
Scope
7.        In order to provide minimal health services to the population of
the project area, the area's present health activities will be expanded to
include six satellite health posts surrounding the centrally located Viacha
hospital, which would serve as the referral center. Each health post would
be staffed by two auxiliary nurses and mobile units would be provided to
facilitate supervision, administration and transportation. The health
component would be implemented by the MPSSP under an agreement with the
Project Unit. Assurances were obtained that the Government would be respon-
sible for full operating costs of the health system. The health component is
closely related to the project as a whole and with drinking water and privy
program in particular. Both will make important contributions to improvements
in the health status of the project area population.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
8.        Utilization of formal health services has been extremely low both
at Viacha and at the health post(s) in operation. This low utilization is
due to: (1) no assurances of staff presence; (ii) a lack of drugs, medications
and equipment; and (iii) various socio-cultural barriers. The project would
attempt to confront these obstacles in the following ways: (i) by training
staff to work at the health posts; (ii) by having the community select for train-
ing for these positions persons from the communities to be served; (iii) by financ-
ing basic necessary equipment for the health posts; (iv) by financing basic
transportation to facilitate outreach activities of health post staff; and
(v) by obtaining assurances that all necessary operating costs would be
provided by Government.
Satellite Health Posts
9.        The satellite health posts will be located within one hour's walk
of the 3,000 to 5,000 persons to be served by each post. The distance from
each health post to the Viacha hospital would be between 10 and 20 kilometers.
The new posts would be 600 sq. ft. three room structures similar to the four
already existing. The existing posts require minor improvements. The new
posts would be constructed by the National Community Development Service (SNDC)
with labor participation by the beneficiary communities. The participation is
estimated at 30% of the post costs and will be supervised by the MPSSP. Basic
equipment and an initial stock of medications would be provided through the
project.
10.       Each health post would be staffed by two auxiliary nurses assigned
by the MPSSP. Assurances were obtained that the Government would provide the
necessary staffing. Auxiliary nurses currently receive six months' training
at the School of Public Health in La Paz. As part of the project, classroom
instruction would be given in La Paz, while the practical instruction would
be organized in the project area. An additional three monthst in-service
training would be provided at the various health posts. Scholarship funds for
both the six-month and three-month periods would be provided through the
project. Short additional courses are being given to provide added training
for the MCH and nutrition aspects. Fifteen additional auxiliary nurses would
be trained through the project. Special emphasis would be given to preventive
services in the training. Candidates for training would be selected by the
communities where they would work.
11.       The responsibilities of the axuiliary nurses would include:  (i)
nutrition and other health education outreach activities; (ii) training and
supervision of village leaders and midwives in preventive programs; (iii)
detection of communicable diseases (e.g. TB, measles, gastrointestinal
diseases, etc.); (iv) immunization campaigns; and (v) assistance to the well
and privy programs. To be successful, however, the nurse auxiliaries would
require considerable supervision and administrative support.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
12.       Local health committees of the populations to be served by the
health posts would be formed under the project. These local health committees
would choose the two persons to be trained as nurse auxiliaries of sanitarios
(the male equivalent). A major function of the committees would be to
identify the local healers and midwives. Special short courses would be
provided under the project for these traditional healers. Recently there
have been successful short courses for local midwives in other parts of the
altiplano. To help in the creation of health committees, an active promotion
effort would be undertaken by the Unidad Santiaria de La Paz in each of the
areas where health posts would be located.
Supervision
13.       Supervision of the health posts would be through the administrative
unit based at the Viacha hospital responsible to the Unidad Sanitaria de La
Paz. The unit will include: (i) a graduate nurse to supervise the auxiliary
nurses in their various functions; (ii) an administrator to coordinate the
maintenance and supply of materials and drugs at the health posts, to manage
the financial aspects of the program, and to oversee the data collection and
evaluation; and (iii) two sanitary engineers to work with the well and privy
program, a very important part of improving health in the project area.
14.       To facilitate supervision, provide physician care, and provide
transportation of referred cases to the Viacha hospital, mobile units are
included: one jeep and one "stretch" jeep which would double as an ambulance.
Two motorcycles, for the sanitary engineers, and bicylces, for the nurse
auxiliaries, are also included as would be radios for communication between
the hospital and the health posts. Operation and maintenance would be
handled by the administrator.
Viacha Hospital
15.       In 1974, Viacha hospital was assigned 1.5 physicians by the MPSSP.
Under the project the MPSSP would increase the staffing to three physicians.
Other hospital staffing would remain as at the present time. The nuns cur-
rently involved in the administration, nursing and health education programs
would continue. Initial screening would be done by the hospital nurses. This
will allow for a more efficient use of physician time where they would only
see those patients which require their more specialized skills.   Non-physicians
would handle the large number of outpatient visits which do not require phy-
sician skills.
16.       The project includes the addition of 100 m  for the project admini-
strative unit and for storage space. Space would also be provided for a
classroom for health education programs. Funds are provided for basic
hospital out-patient equipment as well as replacement parts for the x-ray
machine. Radios are also included for communication between the hospital
and each of the health posts.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Other Agencies
17.       Agencies involved in the health component would include the MPSSP
and the Unidad Sanitaria de La Paz Department. The Maternal and Child Health,
Nutrition, and Transmissible Disease Units in La Paz would be called upon to
help supervise the preventive programs in the project area. The Community
Development office would be called upon to assist in the construction and
upgrading of the health posts.
18.       The construction and upgrading of the six health posts would cost
$b 426,000 (US$21,300), of which $b 284,000 (US$14,200) would be the cash
cost. The remainder would be provided through community contribution of
labor and materials from the area. Medical equipment for five of the six
health posts would cost $b 80,000 (US$4,000) - one health post is already
equipped. An initial stock of medicines (a revolving fund supported by
patient contributions) for the six health posts would cost $b 96,000 (US$4,200).
The mobile units, including the jeeps, motorcycles, and bicycles would cost
$b 394,000 (US$19,700). Basic medical equipment for one jeep plus vehicle
maintenance would cost $b 27,000 (US$1,350). Hospital improvements including
construction, equipment, and radios for the hospital and health posts would
cost $b 360,000 (US$18,000). Training of the nurse auxiliaries (and sani-
tarios), traditional healers and general health promotion activities would
cost $b 309,000 (US$15,450). This includes the cost of six months' training
and six months' additional in-service training for the auxiliaries, plus the
requisite supervision. This gives a cash cost of $b 1,550,000 (US$77,500).
Contingencies estimated at 15% of cash cost would amount to $b 230,000
(US$11,500). The total cash cost would be $b 1,780,000 (US$89,000).
Evaluation
19.       An evaluation of the impact of the health interventions on the
target population would be made during project implementation. Baseline
information would be gathered in small sample areas during the first year
of the project and again at periodic intervals. Basic mortality, morbidity,
and utilization data would be routinely collected. The administrator would
be responsible for overseeing the data collection. Responsibility for this
element would be with the Unidad Sanitaria de La Paz.



i~JR f 6
Table 1
BOLIVIh
DIGAVI RURAL DEVELOPME1NT PRiOJECT
Iiealth Component
(cash costs)
Item                        Units            Unit 2osts ($b)          Total Costs (Mb)
Health Posts
- upgrading                   4                   21,000                   84,000
- construction                2                 100,000                   200,000
- equipment                   5                   16,000                   80,000
- medicines                   6                   16,000                   96,000
Mobile Units
- jeep                        2                 160,000                   320,000
- motorcycle                  2                  16,000                    32,000
- bicycle                    lii                   3,000                   142,000
- equinment                   1                    3,000                    3,000
- maintenance                  3                   8 000                   214,000
Ilospital
- upgrading                   1                  280, 000                 200,000
- equipment                                       4 0,000                  80,000
Training
- scholarships               l5                  12,000                   180,000
- sunervision                 1                   69,000                   69,000
- materials                                        20,000                  60,00C
Sub-total                                                               1,550,000
Contingency (15,.o)                                                       230,000
Total                                                                   1,780,000
r,.;', 1S.'6



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water and Waste System
Background
1.        Considering the high rate of enteric diseases in the project area,
the provision of sanitary water facilities would make a substantial contri-
bution to the improvement of health conditions among the target population.
While not as important in this regard as the water facilities, because of
the scattered population and the cold (about 9C average temperature) and
relatively dry (about 500 mm annual rainfall) climate of the altiplano, the
waste disposal facilities (pit privies) would also provide educational bene-
fits in terms of hygienic and sanitation training beyond the immediate scope
of the program. The project area is only about 20 km away from the La Paz
metropolitan area so that the health situation there is critical to a much
larger population than that directly affected by the project.
2.        About 10,000 families are scattered throughout the project area,
2
which extends over about 800 km . A survey is currently being carried out
to determine the water supply situation in the area, and preliminary data
indicate that the majority of the families are served by shallow unprotected
wells, which generally, are unsanitary. In a few cases, people obtain water
from a common well, generally located at the nearest school. These wells
tend to be better than the others but they would also need improvement.
3.        The potable water supply would be obtained from the groundwater
table which is generally high in the area. The deep aquifer from which the
irrigation water would be pumped is separated by an impermeable soil forma-
tion from the aquifer from which the potable water is taken so that the
potable supply would not be affected by irrigation withdrawals.
Scope
4.        Since the full benefits of the total health package of the project
would be realized only if most of the families in the area were served by
sanitary water supplies, efforts would be made to involve as many of the
people as possible in this component. Nevertheless, participation of the
population would be limited by varying interest, willingness to make the
required contribution (para 9), and the maximum unit cost (para 7), and it
is expected that about 8,000 families (4,000 wells) would be involved.
Participation in the pit privy element would be more restricted, partly be-
cause the demand for such facilities is smaller (the advantages of sanitary



ANNEX 7
Page 2
water supplies are readily understood by farmers, but acceptance of pit
privies requires a more intensive educational process) and partly because the
benefits of these facilities would be less than those for water. Therefore,
the pit privy program would be aimed at about 3,000 families (3,000 pit
privies). These figures compare with about 4,000 families to be reached
through the agricultural component of the project.
5.        The dispersed nature of the population (the houses are from 200 to
500 m apart) makes the construction and operation of a central water supply
system prohibitively expensive. Therefore, the only solution is the improve-
ment of existing wells and construction of additional wells where none exists,
to provide each residence or wherever possible, cluster of houses, with
its own well.
Facilities
6.        In the part of the project area where the groundwater table is
close to the surface, wells would be dug manually (by beneficiaries) and
would be cased with a PVC pipe or concrete rings (depending on the final
cost analysis) and provided with a concrete slab and cover, and hand pump.
Where the groundwater table is lower (below about 5 m), manual excavation
would not be feasible and wells would be drilled. The drilled wells would
be equipped with standard casing, screen, handpump, and concrete slab for
drainage. Although the total cost of a dug well would be more than that of
a drilled well (para 7), the dug well represents a preferable approach in
those areas where it is feasible because its financial cost is less as a
result of the substantial beneficiary contribution. Hand pumps woud be
used instead of the less expensive buckets (about $bl,000 or US$50) because
the latter are more subject to contamination and they are less satisfactory
mechanically. The pit privies would consist of a hole excavated manually,
a concrete slab, and a small adobe building.
Cost
7.        The total cost of a hand dug well would be $b 7,500 (US$375), of
which $b 4,730 (US$237) would be cash cost, and that for a drilled well
would be $b 5,500 (US$275), all of which would be cash cost. Unit investment
cost for a pit privy would be $b 550 (US$28), of which only $b 165 (US$8.25)
would be cash cost. The per capita cash costs would be about $b 395 (US$20)
for a dug well, $b 460 (US$23) for a drill well, and $b 14 (US$0.70) for a
pit privy, all acceptable levels. In order to ensure that wells would not
be constructed in areas with conditions leading to exorbitant costs, a limit
of $b 600 (US$30) would be placed on per capita well cost corresponding to a
limit of $b 7,200 or US$360 per well). Unit investment cash costs for wells
and pit privies are given in Table 1.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
8.        The total investment cost for the water and waste component would
amount to $b 29.8 million (US$1.5 million), of which $b 18.6 million (US$1.0
million) would be cash cost. The total would be composed of $b 20.4 million
(US$1.0 million) for dug wells, $b 5.0 million (US$250,000) for drilled wells,
$b 1.5 million (US$75,000) for pit privies, and $b 0.2 million (US$10,000)
for training (para 12). The corresponding cash costs would be $b 12.9 mil-
lion (US$645,000) for dug wells, $b 5.0 million (US$250,000) for drilled
wells, $b 450,000 (US$22,500) for pit privies, and $b 200,000 (US$10,000)
for training. Current (maintenance and inspection) costs (total and cash)
would rise from about $b 5,000 (US$250) in the first year to $b 300,000
(US$15,000) in the sixth and subsequent years. The investment and current
cash costs for the component are given in Table 2.
Cost Sharing and Recovery
9.        In the case of dug wells, beneficiaries would contribute 37% to
total cost in the form of labor for excavation. For drilled wells, benefici-
aries would be required to provide a cash contribution of 5%, since there
would be little opportunity for unskilled labor to be employed in construc-
tion. Beneficiaries would contribute 70% to the cost of pit privies in labor
for excavation and labor and material (adobe) for construction. The remaining
costs would be borne by Government and would not be recovered. Current cost
would be borne partly by beneficiaries, who would pay for supplies needed to
maintain the wells and would maintain the pit privies themselves, and partly
by the Government, which would carry out the maintenance of the wells, under-
take an inspection program to ensure their proper usage, and supervise the
maintenance of the pit privies.
Implementation
10.       The water and waste component would be implemented by the Ministry
of Social Security and Public Health (MPSSP). A survey is being conducted
at present to determine:
(a) the location of each house,
(b) the size of each family,
(c) the present source and adequacy of water supply
for each family, and
(d) the existence of pit privies.
The survey would provide the basis for specifying more precisely the require-
ments of the population and identifying possible locations for facilities.
It will also give an indication of interest among potential beneficiaries.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
A work plan then would be prepared which would focus initially on those areas
in which population density is relatively high (for efficiency of work crews),
construction costs are relatively low (where the groundwater table is near
the surface), and interest of the community and families is high.
11.       Dug wells and pit privies would be installed by MPSSP with the
assistance of the beneficiaries. The other wells would be drilled, cased,
and have the pumps installed through contracts awarded by public bidding or
through force account by MPSSP. Sanitary inspectors would inspect the wells
and privies on a routine basis to ensure appropriate operation and maintenance
of the facilities. MPSSP would maintain the wells and supervise the main-
tenance of the privies.
Institutional Arrangements
12.       MPSSP currently has a limited well and pit privy program for the
altiplano, but it would have to expand its capacity to meet the requirements
of the project. Additional skilled laborers, engineers, supervisors, and
sanitary inspectors would have to be recruited, and the training course for
sanitary inspectors would have to be expanded. In order to carry out a pro-
gram of this magnitude, MPSSP would need the assistance of a sanitary
engineer for a four-year period, particularly for planning and execution of
the training and construction programs. The cost of this specialists
($b 840,000 or US$42,000/year) is included in total project cost under tech-
nical services.
November 24, 1975



ANNEX 7
Table 1
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water and Waste System
Well and Pit Privy Unit Investment Cash Costs
($b)
Well
Component                                    Cost by Type Well
Hand Dug       Drilled
Excavation/drilling                          -               800
Casing and concrete                         1,100          1,000
Hand pump                                   2,200          2,200
Engineering and supervision-                1,000          1,000
Sub-Total                              4,300          5,000
Physical Contingency (10%)                    430            500
Total                                 -4730           5'500
Pit Privy
Component                                           Cost
Excavation                                            -
Base                                                 55
Slab                                                4t5
Mound                                                 -
House                       1/
Engineering and supervision-                         50
Sub-Total                                     150
Physical Contingency (10%)                           15
Tbtal                                         165
1/ Includes instruction, supervision, and disinfection by MPSSP.
October 21, 1975



ANNEX 7
Table 2
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water and Waste System
Investment and Current Cash Costs
($b '000)
Investment Cost
Year                      Total
Component                         1        2       3       4
liells
Hand dug (3,000)               857   1,714   3,427   3,427  3,427    12,852
Drilled (1,000)                370      880   1,250   1,250  1,250      5,000
Pit privies (3,000)                30      60      120     120    120       450
Training                          200       -      -       -      -          200
Sub-total         1,1457   2,654   h,797   4,797  4,797    18,502
Physical Contingency (1I%)        143     266     483      483    483     1.858
Total             1,600   2,920   5,280   5,280  5,280    20,360
…
Current Cost
-2              4Ye5          6-2
Component                                   .J3j4
Maintenance and
inspection                       5       27       55     109    191    273
Physical Contingency (i0-)         _        3        5      11     19      27
Total                5       30       60     120    210   300
November 24, 1975



ANNEX 8
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Investment Cost Phasing
($b 0_0-0)
Component                       1         2        3          4         5      Total
--Project Year…-----------------
On-Farm Investments           4,820    28,100    31,960    7,085    2,935    7h,900
Incremental Working Capital    -       11,520    12,530    2,775    2,775    29,600
Technical Services           13,700    10,300    10,300    6,800    5,900    47,000
Roads                         2,220      7,150     5,810       110      210    15,500
Health Facilities               530        750       520       -        -        1,800
Water and Waste Facilities   1,600       2,930     5,290    5,290    5,290    20,h00
Power Line                    5,800        -         -         -        -        5800
Total       260,750    66,410   22,060   17,110
1/ Base cost plus physical contingency.
October 28, 1975



ANNEX 9
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$' 000)
IERD Fiscal Year                      Cumulative Disbursement         Balance
and Quarter                           at End of Quarter               of Loan
1976/77
September 30, 1976                            100                       9,400
December 31, 1976                             200                       9,300
March 31, 1977                                300                       9,200
June 30, 1977                                 500                       9,000
1977/78
September 30, 1977                            600                       3,900
December 31, 1977                             900                       8,600
March 31, 1978                              1,400                       8,100
June 30, 1978                               2,100                       7,4OO
1978/79
September 30, 1978                          2,700                       6,800
December 31, 1978                           3,400                       6,100
March 31, 1979                              4,200                       ),300
June 30, 1979                               5,0oo                        ,500
1979/80
September 30, 1979                          5,600                       3,900
December 31, 1979                           6,200                       3,300
March 31, 1980                              6,700                       2,800
June 30, 1980                               7,200                       2,300
1980/81
September 30, 1980                          7,500                       2,000
December 31, 1980                           7,900                       1,600
March 31, 1981                              8,200                       1,300
June 30, 1981                               8,600                         goo
1981/82
September 30, 1981                          8,800                         700
December 31, 1981                           9,500                           0
1/ Assumes loan effective by June 30, 1976.
(I 9.11- IV    9  ', l97



ANNEX 10
BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analyses
1.        The economic rate of return was calculated on the basis of data
shown in Table 1. Financial costs/prices of inputs/outputs were transformed
according to the methods shown below. Key assumptions and derived conversion
factors were:
(a) Economic price of labor. Monthly incremental labor require-
ments for all activities were calculated and compared with
supply available and the market wage rate. A weighted average
of the marginal opportunity cost gave an economic wage rate
of $b 23/day compared with a market wage rate of $b 30/day.
(b) Incremental labor supply and demand. The 4,000 farm families
were assumed to supply three full-time labor units giving
3.6 million man-days/year. Total demand would peak at 1.5
million man-days/year. The availability assumption would not
be critical.
(c)  Economic pricing of goods.  Importable or exportable goods
were valued at their c.i.f./f.o.b. prices and adjusted for
transport costs to or from Viacha to the border. Non-traded
goods were multiplied by a standard conversion factor of 0.94.
(d) Standard conversion factor (SCF). This is the nine-year
average of the ratio of the shadow exchange rate to the
official exchange rate and was derived from the formula:
SCF        M + X
m + t + X-t
m        x
where     M   =  9-year average of imports
X   =  9-year average of exports
t =  9-year average of taxes on imports
t   =  9-year average of taxes on exports
x
Because of data availability problems, conversion factors for
construction and transport were not derived.
(e) Cost recovery. Cost recovery was 100% for all on-farm items in-
cluding electrical supply. The electricity charge of $b 1.06/KWH
represents the base rate plus recovery of the incremental capital
cost over 30 years at 8%. For off-farm items such as roads; and
health, water and waste facilities, costs were not recovered except
for 5% charge for drilled wells for drinking water.
November 24, 1975



BOLIVIA
INGAVI RURAL DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
Economic and Social Analyses
Economic Rate of Return
(Amounts in $b '000)
___-------_--__----------------------  Project Years -------------
CATEGORY                              1          2           3          4          5           6          7           8          9         10           11-20
INVESTMENTS
ON FAR4
MODEL 1, Irrigation Systems              4,920       14,471      10,761     5,574         -          -
10 Group Farms                    -         10,640      1,630        840
10 Group Farms                    -            -       10,640      1,630       840
MODEL 2, 10 Group Facms                    -           5,380      1,840     1,460
10 Group Farms                    -            -        5,380      1,840     1,460
MODEL 3, 10 Groups of 50 Family Farms      -          1,140         570       170         -
10 Groups of 50 Family Farms      -            -        1,140        570       170
MODEL 4,  5 Groups of 50 Family Farms      -            370         -         -           -
5 Groups of 50 Family Farms      -            -          370        -
5 Groups of 50 Family Farms      -            -          -          370        -           -
5 Groups of 50 Family Farms      -            -          -          -         370          -
TOTAL AGRICULTURE                        4,920       32,001      32,781    12,454     2,84o          -
Technical Services                      12,878        9,682      9,682      6,392     5,546          -
Roads                                    2,694       10,552      3,164         78       150          -
Health                                     592        1,212       1,316     1,034     1,034          -
Water & Waste                            1,605        2,950       5,440     5,400     5,490          -
TOTAL INVESTMENT:                       22,689       56,577      52,383    25,358    15,060          -
INCRENERTAL OPERATING COSTS
Agriculture                                -          9,639      19,658    20,171     23,054       24,904     24,604    31,224      31,224    22,524         22,524
Technical Services                         -            -           -         -         -          5,900       4,200     4,2oo       2,500     1,000           -
Roads                                      -            -           -         -         -             550        800       800         800       800            800
Health                                     -            -           -         -         -           1,034      1,034     1,034       1,034     1,034          1,034
Water & Waste                              -            -           -         -         -             300        300        300        300      300             300
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                      -9,639               19,65      20,171     23,054       32,68      30,938    37,558      25, 58       65
TOTAL INCREMENTAL OUTFLOW                  22,869       66,216     72,041    45,529      38,114       32,688     30,938    37,558      35,858    25,658         24,658
INCREMENTAL ECONOMIC INFLOW
SALES
MODEL 1, 10 Group Farms                   -          4,380       5,800     7,400      7,910        7,770      8,230      9,090      9,810     9,810          9,810
10 Group Farms                   -            -        4,380      5,800      7,400       7,910       7,770     8,230       9,090     9,810          9,810
500 Family Farms                  -          3,642      2,480      3,327      3,438       3,523       3,523     3,523       3,523     3,523          3,523
500 Family Farms                  -            -        3,642      2,480      3,327       3,438       3,523     3,523       3,523     3,523          3,523
MODEL 2, 10 Group Farms                   -          2,520       3,060     3,700      3,780        3,770      3,930      4,720      4,610     4,610          4,610
10 Group Farms                   -            -        2,520      3,o60      3,700       3,780       3,770     3,930      4,720      4,610          4,610
500 Family Farms                  -          3,642      2,480      3,327      3,438       3,523       3,523     3,523       3,523     3,523          3,523
500 Family Farms                  -            -        3,642      2,480      3,327       3,438       3,523     3,523       3,523     3,523          3,523
MODEL 3,500 Family Farms                  -          3,642       2,380     3,327      3,438        3,523      3,523      3,523      3,523     3,523          3,523
500 Family Farms                  -            -        3,642      2,480      3,327        3,438      3,523     3,523       3,523     3,523          3,523
MODEL 4,250 Family Farms                  -          1,240       1,240     1,663      1,719        1,761      1,761     1,761       1,761     1,761          1,761
250 Family Farms                  -            -        1,240      1,240      1,663       1,719       1,761     1,761       1,761     1,761          1,761
250 Family Farms                  -            -           -       1,240      1,240       1,663       1,719     1,761      1,761      1,761          1,761
250 Family Farms                  -                       -          -        12          1,240       1,663     1,719       1,761     1,761          1,761
TOTAL INCREMENTAL INFLOW:                     -         19,066      36,344    43,168     50,022       51,085     52,536    55,144      57,556    58,356         58,356
NET INCRENNTAL BENEFIT:                   (22,869)     (47,150)   (35,697)   (2,361)    11,908        18,397     21,598    17,586      21,698    32,698         33,698
RATE OF RETURN: 15%
October 20, 1975



IBRD 11737
68- 125'  T 3-uoro   68-20'               68@ 15'               681' l                 05                      ICTOBER 1975
-16-30'                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOLIVIA
THE INGAVI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
----Project boundary
Area transportation network:
Proposed project roads
nisting:
Main roads
Secondary roads
Trails
---.-- Reilends
-Rivers
Ch\ \...Power transmission lines
Kenko                -   - -     oeeboundaries      16235,
Pac? yo                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agriculture;
Land suitable for irrigated agriculture
P oposed project irrigated areas
%Boundary of groundwater aquifer
To GU.qui~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o s u                                              o i
KILCDMETERS
1645~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2 4X                                              5 
(g/   Tat  (ta  t//   4  \         --2 I              >4>$           W5r i    t  -~~~~~~~~ or 
,  f((            ist\    ~~~ ~ ~~\ \\   /  t+OryGad  ,~  z                                 B O LIVIA |  .> B   AZIL
iM¢5O'  !    }S)/  \bChco rsa Grande  >::NAA                                                         on0e1\  ;    \   '   \   \   164sab  rA--amm-r.)l !  acom
0_ NIqgp  R    , vNc                                            \                                                t<P A R A G U A Y  
To Corseero  eX2s  \          41 20e    Toceilana  68M1     To Oruro     eron  To Oruno dasu 0C uz



