Report No. PID10835
Project Name                     Burkina Faso-Distance Learning Center ...
LIL
Region                           Africa Region
Sector                           Other Education
Project ID                       BFPE76159
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Direction Generale de l'Economie et
de la Planification
Address: 3 Boulevard de la Revolution
Secteur No 4,
BP396 OUAGADOUGOU 01
Contact Person: Mr. Bonoudaba Dabire
Tel: 32 61 19
Fax: 32 54 10
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                October 8, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         January 12, 2002
Projected Board Date             February 26, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Overview of the pilot that is to be conducted:The Project is designed as a
LIL to (a) test the viability of this information tool; (b) test the use
of new telecommunication technology tools for a wider access to and
dissemination of information; (c) test the financial sustainability of the
DLC.The LIL will likewise enhance private sector efforts to adopt
international principles of corporate governance and train executives in
financial and management skills. Exposure to modern methods of planning,
finance and management will enhance corporate governance. The Project will
bring together the local public and private sector in high-profile
deliberations on issues of national interest.One of the objectives of the
new Burkina Faso Distance Learning institution is to respond to the local
demand in terms of trainings and workshops. After having accurately assess
the burkinabO needs, the DLC Board will try to find, through the Global
Development Learning Network (GDLN) and other DL Centers, the best
academic institutions or specialists able to deliver adequate trainings
and workshops and so ensure the quality of the courses offered on the
GDLN. Another objective is to develop local courses production. The GDLN
through its Distance Learning Centers is a two-way interactive tool.
BurkinabO experts can provide courses and share their experiences by
producing and delivering trainings and workshops locally from the Burkina
Faso DLC.The content available on the GDLN is growing fast. WBI develops
partnerships with many institutions around the world to be able to respond
to the GDLN clients.The particularity of GDLN Centers is the ability to
receive AND broadcast courses. The GDLN may enhance the local capacity in
terms of courses production and experience sharing. One of the primary



objective of the GDLN was to learn from the field and provide access to
the local experience. Burkinabb experts will so be able to share their
experience with colleagues from other countries.
2. Objectives
Rationale and development objective:The Project will test the viability of
a distance learning institution in Burkina Faso and its capacity to
promote better access to and dissemination of information relevant for
country development and policy reforms. This Development Objective will be
assessed through (i) Institutional Championship (ability for small
entities to promote a better access to information); and (ii) financial
sustainability through a phased funding.How it serves to address
identified development problem:The distance learning initiative will aim
to (a) strengthen the environment for policy reforms and (b) build
capacity in the public and private sectors by increasing local access to
global knowledge and specialized information using internet-based
technology.Demand-response expected from key-interest groups:Distance
Learning will facilitate the increased dissemination of knowledge and
cross-country experience in support of reform. Public and private sector
decision-makers will access interactive multi-media training programs
developed by the World Bank Institute, major universities, private
corporations and technical organizations around the world. This exposure
to global knowledge will enhance the capacity of Burkina Faso
decision-makers to conceptualize and implement reforms. This will, in
turn, lead to improved governance, economic growth and poverty reduction.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Project is intended to support, in particular but not only, local
efforts to strengthen institutional capacity within the civil service. A
larger number of Government staff will be trained through distance
learning, and will apply what they have learned, improving governance in
the public sector. The Project will support IDA policy dialogue with
regional decision-makers, hitherto excluded from sector deliberations in
Burkina Faso. By convening them in one forum, it will also facilitate
internal debate on the reform agenda. It will help link the regional
decision-makers to the information super highway and facilitate regional
input in national planning. The WBI has had considerable experience in the
production, delivery and evaluation of distance learning course materials.
The intent is to develop a dynamic knowledge management system in Burkina
Faso capable of distilling international experience and making it
available for further adaptation and use in a local setting. The proposed
LIL will help build the capability in Burkina Faso to adapt relevant
policy and technical knowledge to the domestic context, and when possible
to create new knowledge, which in turn might be useful for other
countries. Burkina Faso will be better positioned to exploit the new
information and communications technologies to increase its own knowledge
base. Moreover the public-private interface will create opportunities for
improved governance.
4. Description
This LIL has two main components : (i) DLC construction and equipment; and
(ii) Support of the DLC operations during three years. The first component
is financed through a Project Preparation Facility. The Credit will only
finance the DLC operations during the first three years of operations on a
decreasing basis. The first year, the Credit will cover 809 of the
- 2 -



Center's operating costs. The second year, it will cover 60%', and the
third year 40%'.
5. Financing
Total                                    ( US$m)
Total Project Cost                         3.3
6. Implementation
7. Sustainability
The management staff of the DLC will elaborate a business-plan which will
describe the management policy of the Center. The business-plan will help
the DLC to reach financial sustainability by the fourth year of
implementation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Summarize attempts elsewhere to undertake similar pilot efforts or related
projects:There are several success stories of the delivery of courses over
satellite and via the Internet. The World Bank supported the African
Virtual University in 1997, the first-ever technology-based educational
network serving sub-Saharan Africa. The cyber-space university has been
piloted in 16 English speaking and eight French speaking tertiary
education centers and offers specialized certification programs with
content from major universities, private corporations and organizations in
North America, Europe and Africa. It will soon offer degree programs as
well. The GDLN has completed its first year of operation with quite
significant success in developing programming and content. Already
operational in more than eight countries in Africa and in more than
fifteen around the world, the Distance Learning Centers are today very
successful learning tools. After only one year of operation, the DLC in
Dakar has already reached the objectives of the second year in terms of
finance, learning program and number of clients. The Centers of Tanzania
and Uganda use their facilities every day and have reached a use rate of
almost 80%.With Mauritania, Guinea and Mozambique, Burkina Faso will
benefit from this new learning network as part of the third phase of the
GDLN deployment. Moreover, the Distance Learning Center in Ouagadougou
will be part of a francophone African DL Center including Senegal, Ivory
Coast, and Benin. These three Centers benefit from a close relationship
with the DL Center in Paris which provide courses, training and seminars
of many french institutions such as Bank of France Institute, HEC, etc.
Canada also provides lot of french contents to the GDLN.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Marc Jean Yves Lixi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
- 3 -



Telephone:   (221) 849 50 20
Fax:   (221) 849 50 27
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending Dec. 21, 2001
- 4 -



