Report No. 23584
Report No: I076159 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/23/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BURKINA FASO    Project ID: P076159
Project: Distance Learning Center - LIL          Task Team Leader: Marc Jean Yves
Lixi
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 10, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: April 25, 2002    IDA Amount ($m): 2.30
Managing Unit: AFC15     Sector: EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The main objectives of the project are:
l.a Strengthen the environment for policy reform.
l.b Build Capacity in public and private sector.
2. Test the viability of a distance learning system to promote better
access to
and dissemination of information relevant for country development and
policy
reform.
I.A.3. Project Description:
This LIL has two main components : (i) DLC construction and equipment; and
(ii) Support of the DLC operations during three years. The first component
is financed through a Project Preparation Facility. The Credit will only
finance the DLC operations during the first three years of operations on a
decreasing basis. The first year, the Credit will cover 80% of the
Center's operating costs. The second year, it will cover 60%, and the
third year 40%.
The management staff of the DLC will elaborate a business-plan which will
describe the management policy of the Center. The business-plan will help
the DLC to reach financial sustainability by the fourth year of
implementation.
Components:
1. DLC Retrofitting and Equipment
l.a Civil Works
1.b Network Access Equipment
1.c Videoconferencing Equipment
1.d Office Furniture/other equipment
2. Support DLC establishment and Operation
2.a Consultant Services & Trainings
2.b Operating Costs
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)



The Distance Learning Center will be built in a new neighborhood called
Ouaga 2000 within the surbubs of Ouagadougou. Not too far from downtown,
Ouaga 2000 is expected to host most of the business and administrative
buildings. The new presidency will also be located in Ouaga 2000.
The Distance Learning Center will be a small one-story building (one
videoconference room, one multimedia room and 3 small offices). The plot
of land chosen by the Government for the construction is about 4,000
square feet and is located next to the CILCSS headquaters, this plot of
land is in a not environmentally sensitive area, no one lives in this area
as all the already-constructed buildings are mainly offices.
The civil works will be supervised by the Faso Baara Agency (member of the
Africatip Association, and so, will follow all the procedures satisfactory
for IDA) which will ensure that all building standards will be followed.
The construction will not use any toxic materials in operation or
construction and. Water, sanitation and waste will be taken care of by
both Faso Baara and the contractor for civil works (this area is the
property of the Government of Burkina Faso).
Given the very small size of the construction, the civil works will last
for less than 7 months.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
NA
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
No safeguard policy have been triggered
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
-2 -



activities in the project area.
NA
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
NA
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
NA
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
NA
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
- 3 -



please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Marc Jean Yves Lixi      01/23/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         01/17/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         John A. Roome    01/22/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



