Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3707 BUR
Development Credit Agreement
(Development Learning Center Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 9, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3707 BUR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 10, 2002, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project;
(B)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by the 
Centre d’Enseignement à Distance 
de Ouagadougou
 (CEDO) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to CEDO part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis of, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in 
the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and CEDO  (the CEDO 
Project Agreement);  
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of 
the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CEDO” means 
Centre d’Enseignement à Distance de Ouagadougou
, the 
Development Learning Center of Ouagadougou, an educational entity established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(b)
“CEDO Assembly” means 
Assemblée Générale de CEDO, 
the governing body of 
CEDO, with representatives of the public and private sectors as well as the civil society, and 
responsible for the oversight and monitoring of CEDO;
(c)
“CEDO
Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between 
the Association and CEDO, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the CEDO
Project Agreement;
(d)
“CEDO Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CEDO, pursuant to Section 3.01 (d)  of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the CEDO Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement;
(e)
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
Page  3
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(f)
“FCFA” means 
Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine
, the currency of 
the Borrower;
(g)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower, starting January 1 and 
ending December 31 each calendar year;
(h)
“IEC” means Information, Education and Communication;
(i)
“Initial Deposit” means the deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(j)
“MEF” means 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances, 
the Borrowers’ 
Ministry of Economy and Finance ;
(k)
“Project Coordination Unit” or “PCU” means the project coordination unit 
within MEF, in charge of the day-to-day management of the Project;
(l)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph (c) 
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement, and supporting handbooks, including, 
inter alia
, institutional 
arrangements, work plans, participatory monitoring and performance indicators, model 
procurement plans and other procedures to be used by the Borrower and CEDO for the purposes of 
the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Association, 
and such term includes any schedules to said Manual;
(m)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted by 
the Association to the Borrower, pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the 
Association on November 26, 2001, and on behalf of the Borrower on January 14, 2002; and
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works or 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in FCFA, a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
Page  4
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5  to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the 
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date of 
this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by 
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time 
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1 and 
December 1, commencing December 1, 2012 and ending June 1, 2042. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on June 1, 2022 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
Page  5
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; 
and 
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of 
the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph 
(a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and C of the 
Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Parts A and C of  the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
Parts A and C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 
4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under this  
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause CEDO to carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, 
and in accordance with the provisions of the CEDO Project Agreement and the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, all the obligations of CEDO therein set forth, 
Page  6
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources necessary or appropriate to enable CEDO to perform such obligations; and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(d)
The Borrower shall make available to CEDO on a non-reimbursable basis out of 
the proceeds of the Credit the amounts required to carry out Part B of the Project under an 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CEDO (the CEDO Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, in an amount not 
exceeding four hundred fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights equivalent (SDR 450,000).
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the CEDO Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the objectives of the Project, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by CEDO in respect of Part B of the Project pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the CEDO Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall:
(a)
until the completion of the execution of the Project, open and maintain an account 
in FCFA in the Borrower’s Treasury (the Project Account) on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount of FCFA fifty million  (FCFA 
50,000,000), the Initial Deposit, to finance the Borrower's initial contribution to the expenditures 
required under the Project;
(c)
thereafter during each following quarter, deposit into the Project Account such 
amounts as are estimated to be required for the ensuing three-month period, as shall be agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Association; and
(d)
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures required 
under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, until the receipt by the Association of the Financing 
Monitoring Reports referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, prepare,  and furnish to the 
Association semiannually a report, in such form and detail as the Association shall reasonably 
Page  7
ascertain, pertaining to the carrying out of Parts A and C of the Project;
(b)
without limitation to the obligations in paragraph (c) of this Section 3.05, the 
Borrower and the Association, at the request of either party, shall exchange views on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project; and
(c)
the Borrower shall cause CEDO to partake in such exchange of views, at the 
request of the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a form 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to Parts A and C of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the Special 
Account for each Fiscal Year audited in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case no later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
period as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  8
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the annual 
financial statements or statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations set 
out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth actual and projected sources and uses of funds for Parts A and C 
of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the projected and actual sources and uses of such 
funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in implementation of Parts A and C of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the previously forecast and actual 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts A and C of the Project, as 
at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the calendar six months after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar six 
months; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
each subsequent calendar six months, and shall cover such calendar six months.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
CEDO shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the CEDO Project 
Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that CEDO will be able to 
perform its respective obligations under the Project Agreement.  
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of 
Page  9
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has appointed the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 
(b) of this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association and in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)
CEDO has appointed a General Director and the key staff referred to in paragraph 
2
(b) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(d)
the CEDO Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed by the Borrower and 
CEDO;
(e)
the financial management system for CEDO referred to in paragraph 4 of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement has been established and is operational; and
(f)
the Borrower and CEDO have furnished to the Association a procurement plan for 
the carrying out of Parts A and C, and Part B, respectively, for the  first twelve months  following 
the Effectiveness Date.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Association:
(a)
the CEDO Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CEDO and is 
legally binding upon CEDO in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
the CEDO Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and CEDO and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CEDO in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this Agreement 
Page  10
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances
03 B.P. 7008 
Ouagadougou 03
BURKINA FASO
Cable address:
Telex
Facsimile:
SEGEGOUV
5555
(226) 31 27 15 or
(226) 31 54 09
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
           248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
            64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
BURKINA FASO
Page  11
By /s/ Tertius Zongo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Theodore O. Ahlers
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Civil works
80,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local       
expenditures       
(2) Goods
80,000
100% of foreign
        expenditures and
80% of  local  
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services and
250,000
            80%
training
(4) Operating costs, including
500,000
  80%
       Satellite Bandwidth Rent
(5) Refunding of
      990,000
 
    Amount due
Project Preparation
 pursuant to
Advance
 Section 2.02 (c)
 of this Agreement
TOTAL
1,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country 
other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the 
Page  13
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which goods or 
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to 
be “foreign expenditures”; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of 
implementation of the Project, management and monitoring, including office supplies, 
administrative support, communication and utility services, travel and supervision costs, salaries of 
CEDO personnel and audits, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; 
(c) consultants’ services under: (i) contracts with firms costing less than $100,000 each, or (ii) 
with individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) operating costs; all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to test the effectiveness and sustainability of a distance 
learning center as part of a global knowledge-sharing network to strengthen the capacity of public, 
private and civil society decision-makers and implementers to design, plan and manage economic 
and social development policies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Construction and Establishment of CEDO
1.
Construction of facilities for establishment of CEDO, including: (a) provision of a 
video-conference room with a 30-person capacity; (b) a computer room outfitted for 30 computer 
stations (hardware, software and Internet hook-up); (c) a technical and administrative center, 
including a room for trainers and a conference room; and (d) mechanical outfitting such as 
installation and/or upgrading of electrical and telephone wiring.
2.
Acquisition of equipment for CEDO, including: (a) a Very Small Aperture Terminal 
(VSAT); (b) a satellite communication center, video, telecommunications and microprocessor 
equipment; (c) office and classroom furniture; and (d) assessing equipment for CEDO’s operations 
and security.
Part B
:
Support to CEDO’s Operations
1.
Strengthening of: (a) financial and operational management of CEDO; (b) marketing and 
networking of CEDO services; and (c) project design and operations evaluation at CEDO, through 
provision of technical advisory services, training to selected staff in CEDO and acquisition of 
Page  14
equipment.
2.
Carrying out of IEC and marketing campaigns alerting interested parties to the services 
available by CEDO, through the provision of technical advisory services
Part C
:
Monitoring and Evaluation of the Pilot Activities
Monitoring of CEDO’s activities and evaluation of the pilot achievements, through the 
provision of technical advisory services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
Page  15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines).
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $120,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $120,000 equivalent may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited in 
writing to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award will be made to the contractors 
Page  16
who offer the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan 
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved 
by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to a contract for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines).
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Page  17
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants’ services for small assignments and the carrying out of training under 
contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for supervision of works and services under contracts estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent and for financial audits may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for small studies and training that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to 
cost the equivalent of
 
$100,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
 
or
more, but less than $100,000, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to 
the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given.
(c)
Contracts for audits, all contracts for the employment of consultants in PCU, all 
contracts under procedures of single source selection and all international training shall be 
awarded only after prior review and approval of the Association.
Page  18
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:
General
1.
The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project in accordance with procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, cancel or waive any 
provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment cancellation or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
Part B:
Coordination and Management
2.
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual and summarized in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
Part C
: Annual Reviews and Midterm Review
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and cause CEDO 
to prepare, and furnish annually to its Board and the Association, for review and comments, 
without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.05 of this Agreement, a combined report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
2
of
this Schedule 4, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report, and a draft work program and related budget, 
including the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the twelve months’ period following such date 
(Annual Review). The first such report shall be furnished to the Association no later than 
December 31, 2003 or such later date as the Borrower and the Association shall determine; and
(b)
review with the Association, within four weeks following the submission of the 
report referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, said report, and thereafter take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the views 
of the Association on the reports.
Page  19
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by June 30, 2004, or such other date as the Association shall agree upon, carry out jointly 
with the Association, a mid-term review of the implementation of operations under the Project 
(Midterm Review). The Borrower shall cause CEDO to participate and take all actions it 
considers necessary to ensure the participation of representatives of civil society in such Midterm 
Review. Such Midterm Review shall cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the 
Project and, more specifically: (i) the sustainability of Project activities, notably the financing of 
recurrent maintenance costs; and (ii) the performance of CEDO under the Project;
(b)
no later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, furnish to the Association, 
for its review and comments, a report in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on 
the implementation of Parts A and B of the Project; and
(c)
following such Midterm Review, act promptly and diligently to take any 
corrective action as shall be recommended by the Association, and cause CEDO to act promptly 
and diligently to take any corrective action as shall be recommended by the Association, to attain 
the objectives of the Project.
Part D:
Specific Actions  
5.
The Borrower shall, no later than twenty-four months after the Effective Date, or such 
later date as the Borrower and the Association shall determine, ensure the carrying out of the 
business plan approved by the executing organs of CEDO and the Association for the first and the 
second twelve months’ period of Project implementation.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to FCFA 
160,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to FCFA 
80,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Credit Account plus the total 
Page  20
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 990,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the  Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at 
such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents 
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Page  21
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the GEF Grant 
Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit Account allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account and as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account : (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b), and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  22
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
1.
Number of project directors, trained in the Development Learning Center program, 
implementing best practice guidelines on managing development projects.
2.
Number of specific initiatives introduced that impact on PRSP implementation in designated 
areas covered by distance learning.
3.
Ability to cover operating expenses through fees (60% of operating expenses to be covered 
by revenue generation by the 3rd year of project implementation).
4.
Number of training institutions using the DLC. All the training institutions members of the 
DLC Board respond in coherence to the local training needs.
5.
80 training sessions have been held during the first twelve months of Project 
Implementation, and 120 such sessions in each twelve months period.
6.
Variance of content offered in the training sessions has covered at least 3 specific sectors 
during the first twelve months of Project Implementation, and 5 such sectors in each twelve 
months period thereafter.
