                                Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001036




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (IDA-37070)




                                   ON A

                                  CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.9 MILLION
                      (US$ 2.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  TO THE

                              BURKINA FASO

                                  FOR A

                DEVELOPMENT LEARNING CENTER PROJECT




                                May 5, 2009




AFTRL - Results & Learning
AFMBF
Africa Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective May 5, 2009)

                           Currency Unit = F CFA
                             1.00 = US$ 0.00195
                           US$ 1.00 = 511.81064

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 to December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AADLC    African Association of Distance Learning Center
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DLC      Development Learning Center (GDLN Center)
CEDO     Centre d'Enseignement à Distance de Ouagadougou
         (Burkina GDLN Center)
GDLN     Global Development Learning Network
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IP       Implementation (Performance)
ISG      Information Solutions Group
KPI(s)   Key Performance Indicator(s)
LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E      Monitoring & Evaluation
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGO(s)   Non Government Organization(s)
NS       National Shopping
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
WBI      World Bank Institute



                        Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                      Country Director: Ishac Diwan
                       Sector Manager: Richard Scobey
                  Project Team Leader: Marc Jean Yves Lixi
                     ICR Team Leader: Laurent Porte

                                                 Burkina Faso
                            Development Learning Center project




                                                  CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 Introduction..................................................................................................................... 1
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 7
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 10
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 10
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 12
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 14
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 15
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 16
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 18
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 19
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 20
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 21
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR......................................................................... 22
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 23
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 24
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Development Learning
Country:                Burkina Faso           Project Name:
                                                                      Center Project
Project ID:             P076159                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-37070
ICR Date:               05/13/2009             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     LIL                    Borrower:
                                                                      BURKINA FASO
Original Total
                        XDR 1.9M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 1.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Centre d Enseignement a Distance de Ouagadougou
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/28/2001     Effectiveness:                          12/31/2003
Appraisal:             03/11/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/29/2002     Mid-term Review:       07/18/2005
                                      Closing:               12/31/2006       10/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory         Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Unsatisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry      None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Adult literacy/non-formal education                              30
Central government administration                                15                  30
Sub-national government administration                           15                  20
Telecommunications                                               40                  10
Vocational training                                                                  40


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Corporate governance                                              20                 40
Education for the knowledge economy                               40                 40
Technology diffusion                                              40                 20


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Ishac Diwan                        A. David Craig
Sector Manager:           Richard G. Scobey                  Nicolas M. Gorjestani
Project Team Leader:      Marc Jean Yves Lixi                Marc Jean Yves Lixi
ICR Team Leader:          Marc Jean Yves Lixi
ICR Primary Author:       Laurent Porte



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project will test the viability of a distance learning institution in Burkina Faso and
will test the ability of this approach to accessing international knowledge to: (i) improve
the implementation of (a) the PRSP and/or the PRSC and (b) the IDA-financed projects;
and (ii) help coordinate all the local training institutions in regard to the national capacity
building policy.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



                                              ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval         Target         Completion or
                                               documents)        Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Ability to cover operating expenses through fees
Value
quantitative or N/A                        100%                              43%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   10/31/2008                        10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        43%. at the end of the project implementation, the CEDO had not broken even.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Number of specific intiatives introduced that impact PRSP implementation in
                designated areas covered by GDLN sessions
                                           140 intiatives
                                           covered by GDLN

Value                                      sessions related to

quantitative or 0                          PRSP                              106
Qualitative)                               implementation
                                           have been
                                           delivered through
                                           GDLN
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   10/31/2008                        10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        75%.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Number of projects Director trained at the DLC
                                           at least 140

Value                                      managers of

quantitative or 0                          projects and                      56
Qualitative)                               programs have
                                           been trained at the
                                           DLC
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   12/31/2006                        10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        40%.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   Number of training institutions using the DLC. All the training institutions
                members of the DLC Board respond in coherence to the local training needs
                                           100% of the local
Value                                      training
quantitative or N/A                        institutions hve                  less than 10%
Qualitative)                               used at least once
                                           the DLC
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   12/31/2006                        10/31/2008


                                                iii

Comments
(incl. %        only 5 local training institutions used the DLC services, which represents less

achievement)    than 10%

                Variance of content offered in the training sessions has covered at least 3 sectors
Indicator 5 :   during the first 12 months of Project Implementation, and 5 such sectors in each
                12 months period thereafter
                                            at least 18
Value                                       different specific
quantitative or 0                           topics have been                  116
Qualitative)                                covered by GDLN
                                            Program courses
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    12/31/2006                        10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        the GDLN events covered between 9 and 14 topics per year., far exceeding the

achievement)    original target value. 644%


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                 approval         Revised       Completion or
                                                documents)     Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   80 training sessions have been held during the first twelve months of Project
                Implementation, and 120 such sessions in each twelve months period
                                            at least 440
Value                                       sessions have been
(quantitative   0                           held at the DLC                   256 of GDLN

or Qualitative)                             during the project                sessions

                                            implementation
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    12/31/2006                        10/31/2008

Comments        58%. Although the CEDO exceeded the target in terms of number of sessions,

(incl. %        some sessions offered by the CEDO did not use the GDLN comparative

achievement)    advantage and were just regular training sessions as offered by other local
                insitutions (not included here).
Indicator 2 :   Number of public and private professional trained
Value                                       at least 3500 the
(quantitative   0                           fourth year of                    3796
or Qualitative)                             implementation
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    12/31/2006                        10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        the total cumulated number of participants was 6000. 63%
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   DLC operating cost/generated revenus ratio
Value                                       the DLC recovers
(quantitative   0%                          100% of its                       43%
or Qualitative)                             operating costs
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    12/31/2006                        10/31/2008
Comments        43%



                                                 iv

(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived           DO                       IP             Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     12/03/2002      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     06/20/2003      Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                 0.00
  3     12/29/2003      Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                 0.00
  4     05/03/2004      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.48
  5     01/01/2005      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.91
  6     04/21/2005 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           1.15

  7     11/26/2005       Moderately            Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                  1.34

  8     05/18/2006       Moderately            Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                  2.17

  9     06/26/2007       Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory           2.64

  10    06/28/2007 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           2.64

  11    06/26/2008       Moderately            Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                  2.80

  12    11/03/2008     Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                 2.80



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                          v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

Introduction

This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) evaluates two aspects of the described
operation: (i) the project performances including the achievements of its PDO, the Bank
and Borrower performances, its implementation, etc.; and (ii) the success of the LiL, i.e.
the success (or failure) of the pilot, and to what extent this experience was useful for the
country. The first part of the assessment (project performance) is outlined in section 3,
and the second part is described in sections 2.5 and 4. The present ICR will demonstrate
that although the operation has not achieved its Development Objectives, the LiL was a
success.

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

As many other African countries, Burkina Faso has a lot of expertise. However, there was
no means to share information and to exchange success stories. As reforms require
capacity and knowledge, the GDLN would be an efficient tool, providing a forum for
discussion among decision makers. Training programs offered abroad were expensive
and were reserved to only a few participants.

This distance learning initiative aimed to (a) strengthen the environment for policy
reforms and (b) build capacity in the public and private sectors by increasing local access
to global knowledge and specialized information using internet-based technology.
Burkina Faso hosts many training institutions; some of them offering very good quality
training. But there was no coherence among all the different curricula and no coherence
between these curricula and the national capacity building policy.

Coordinated by the GDLN Secretariat at the World Bank Institute (WBI), the Global
Development Learning Network (GDLN) is looking at ways to expand its clients' access
to learning and knowledge by helping other content providers use distance learning
methods that are compatible with GDLN. Typically these providers are already delivering
learning services to development decision-makers through seminars and similar events.
They also helped develop partnership agreements with content providers to access the
large number of established courses and other types of instructional content that are
currently available from within the Bank and from external content providers. The
courses and materials are modified as necessary and provided through the GDLN to
Development Learning Centers (or GDLN Centers) clients.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objectives of the Project were to test the viability of a distance learning institution in
Burkina Faso and to test the ability of this approach to access international knowledge to:
(i) improve the implementation of (a) the PRSP and/or the PRSC and (b) the IDA-




                                              1

financed projects; and (ii) help coordinate all the local training institutions in regard to
the national capacity building policy.

The Key Performance Indicators as approved are:
 Number of project directors (20 the first year, and + 10 every year after), trained in
    the Development Learning Center program, implementing best practice guidelines on
    managing development projects.
 Number of specific initiatives introduced that impact on PRSP implementation in
    designated areas covered by distance learning (20 the first year, and + 10 every year).
 Ability to cover operating expenses through fees (60% of operating expenses to be
    covered by revenue generation by the 3rd year of project implementation).
 Number of training institutions using the DLC. All the training institutions members
    of the DLC Board respond in coherence to the local training needs.
 80 training sessions have been held during the first twelve months of Project
    Implementation, and 120 such sessions in each twelve months period.
 Variance of content offered in the training sessions has covered at least 3 specific
    sectors during the first twelve months of Project Implementation, and 5 such sectors
    in each twelve months period thereafter.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
Not applicable

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The GDLN curriculum contains development topics addressed by WBI courses, such as
social security and pension reform, policies for economic growth, building knowledge
and expertise in infrastructure finance, health sector reform and sustainable health sector
financing, water policy reform, social dimensions of development, economics and
business   journalism,    environmental    economics     for  development     policy,   and
macroeconomic management. In order to offer clients a wider range of learning
opportunities, GDLN is also working with partners in other divisions of the Bank as well
as external organizations, to help them develop courses for distance learning.

This distance learning initiative was supposed to facilitate the increased dissemination of
knowledge and cross-country experience in support of reform. Public and private sector
decision-makers were to access interactive multimedia training programs developed by
the World Bank Institute, major universities, private corporations and technical
organizations around the world.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

This LIL had three main components: (i) DLC's construction and equipment; (ii) Support
of the DLC's operations during three years; and (iii) monitoring and evaluation of the
Pilot conducted by the Project Coordination Unit at the Ministry of Economy and
Development. The first component was financed through the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF). The Credit was to only finance the Center's operations during the first three years


                                             2

of operations on a decreasing basis. The first year, the Credit was to cover 80% of the
Center's operating costs. The second year, it was to cover 60%, and the third year 40%.

Project Component 1 - US$1.20 million - Construction and Establishment of the
CEDO: the project preparation included the following activities: (a) building facilities on
its own site in Ouaga 2000 for establishment of the CEDO; (b) equipment of the CEDO.
The Ministry of Economic Development (MED) was responsible for the establishment of
the CEDO and the construction of the Center. It was also responsible for the project
coordination and ensuring the participation of the public and private sectors and donor
community in project monitoring and training development activities (through the
CEDO's Board). The MED was to conduct the monitoring and evaluation component of
the Pilot. So that distance learning activities could begin as soon as possible after project
effectiveness, project preparation included establishment of the CEDO (legal procedures,
formation of the CEDO's Board, recruitment of Director and staff) and preparation and
equipment of the site (classrooms, videoconference room, computer room, administrative
offices, etc. Project preparation activities were handled by the Ministry of Economic
Development with the assistance of Faso Baara (public agency specialized in civil works),
for works, equipment, institutional aspects and studies. These activities were funded
through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance. In addition, the Bank, through its
Information Solution Group (ISG) Department, provided assistance and expertise to
procure, install and test videoconferencing equipment.

The Development Learning Center was governed by a Board including all the main
academic institutions. The Board also included representatives from the public and
private sectors and from civil society, in particular NGOs. Therefore, they were supposed
to offer common and coherent curricula via distance learning. The presence of the public
sector in the Board was to ensure the consistency of these courses with the public/private
sector's national capacity building policy.

Project Component 2 - US$1.00 million - Support for CEDO's Operation: This
component aimed to assist the CEDO begin operation and become financially viable. It
included: (a) financing of CEDO operation costs on a decreasing basis over the first three
years of operation; (b) purchase of a vehicle to facilitate transport and marketing of
CEDO services; and (c) technical assistance for the training of Center staff, periodic
evaluation of Center operation and management effectiveness, and establishment of
financial accounts and their annual audit. This component was implemented by the
CEDO, established as an autonomous nonprofit agency (an Association) and located in
Ouaga 2000. It was considered a nonprofit association in recognition of its role in
promoting advances in policy, culture and technology among a wide range of actors. The
CEDO was governed by a Board, comprising representatives of the Ministries of
Economic Development, Finance and Education, academic institutions, the private sector
and civil society (cultural associations, the media, etc.), and chaired by an official elected
from among the members. The CEDO's Board oversaw project implementation, through
its executive secretariat. The Board was charged with monitoring CEDO management
and deciding CEDO development policy, approving the annual business plan and
program of activities, assessing the Center's financial statements and providing



                                              3

recommendations to help the Center become financially self-sustaining. Daily
management of the CEDO was entrusted to a Director selected on the basis of proven
experience in enterprise management or management of similar educational entities. The
Director was assisted by a team consisting of a technician (computer specialist with
telecommunications knowledge), a facilitator/trainer, an experienced accountant and an
office assistant.

Project Component 3 - US$ 0.10 million - Monitoring and Evaluation of the Pilot:
this component included the following activities: (a) monitor the CEDO activities; (b)
evaluate the Pilot achievements and performance indicators. This component was to be
implemented by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) at the MED. The PCU was to
monitor the CEDO's activities and look at the Pilot performance indicators. The PCU was
to establish a simple and practical monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system to ensure
qualitative and quantitative feedback on project implementation. The PCU with the
assistance of the Board and the CEDO's management team was to define a monitoring
model and monthly reports on CEDO's activities. Quarterly and in particular during the
mid-term review, the PCU was to report on the overall Pilot implementation.

1.6 Revised Components
Not applicable.

1.7 Other significant changes

Component C (Monitoring and Evaluation) was initially supposed to be implemented by
the Project Coordination Unit. The quick staff turnover as heavy workload of the PCU
staff prevented them from doing it. At the Mid-Term Review, the Task Team and the
Government agreed on shifting the responsibility of developing M&E tools to the DLC.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

There have not been enough consultations with other donors and with Human Resources
departments within the ministries to assess the priority needs in terms of capacity
development in Burkina Faso. Such consultations would have allowed the Task Team to
identify the lack of budget resources for training and capacity development in the public
administration and therefore, a provision would have been to sponsor the participation of
civil servants in learning events addressing priority topics of the government (see Lessons
Learned section).

The project design was based on the model developed during the GDLN Program Pilot
Phase (2000-2002). At the time of Appraisal, the successes and failures of on-going
GDLN projects were not known yet and very few design-related lessons were taken into
account. However, the Task Team consulted closely with various operational GDLN
Center's staff and included their suggestions in the design of Component 1 and 2 (e.g.
architectural design of the Center to make it more functional, provision for content



                                             4

development, etc.). Overall, the design of each of the three components has revealed its
strengths and weaknesses (see Lessons Learned section).

The use of the PPF to fund component 1 (construction and establishment of the Center)
was based on the design of Senegal, Benin, and Cote d'Ivoire GDLN projects. The
rationale for using the PPF to fund all the investment parts of the project was two-fold: (i)
First, this project was a capacity-building project. The construction and installation of the
Center itself were only the pre-requisites to the capacity-building function of the project
(Components 2 and 3); and (ii) the GDLN network was under a lot of pressure to expand
in order to reach the critical mass of centers in West Africa that would ensure the
viability of the overall sub-regional network; thus the funding of construction through the
PPF was supposed to speed up the implementation of component 1 by starting before the
credit effectiveness. This exception was a failure: (i) engaging into construction of such a
single purpose building before credit effectiveness is a huge risk, as projects may never
become effective; (ii) the supposed gain in time was largely offset eventually by many
factors and the construction was completed with more than a year delay; (iii) the shift of
project coordination, special account, etc. once the Center was operational led to
confusion and difficulties for the auditor to properly assess the statement of expenditure.
The PPF should not be used to invest such a large part of the credit (almost 40%) and the
Burkina Faso project was the last GDLN project using this exception (see Lessons
Learned section).

2.2 Implementation

Several key factors have directly affected the project implementation: (i) the slow
implementation of component 1 resulted in a loss of Momentum and an excess of credit
spending on the construction works whereas the core objective of the project was the
operationalization of this capacity-building project; (ii) the lack of support of the Ministry
of tutelle during the first three years of implementation have slowed down the project's
execution. The Bank drew several times the attention of the Government on the
importance of the Government support to make the CEDO succeed. When the closing
date was extended for 23 months, the Government took this opportunity to move the
Center under the new Ministry of Economy and Finance and agreed with the client on its
stronger support (covenants outlined in the Letter of Agreement); and (iii) the staff
capacity is a key factor for successful implementation. Despite several clear
recommendations from the Task Team to the CEDO's Board, recorded in Board's
meetings minutes, the CEDO has never been able to gain strong commitment and pro-
activity from its members. This resulted in the downgrade of the DO and IP ratings.

The strong marketing strategy and pro-activity by GDLN centers staff was identified as a
key success factor in the ICR of the Senegal GDLN center project (see Lessons Learned).
The Task Team has repeatedly recommended to the CEDO team to engage in a more
aggressive and creative marketing strategy highlighting the added value of GDLN and its
ability to access a wide range of international expertise rather than focusing only on the
technological aspects of the center and presenting the CEDO as another local training
institution (see Bank Performance in Supervision).



                                              5

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The project's financial instrument is a LIL. Therefore, M&E is a very important aspect of
the project design and was thus included in the project as a stand-alone component.
According to the initial project design, M&E was to be implemented by the project
coordination unit (STC-PDES) outside of CEDO in order to ensure an objective
assessment of the project's performances. Unfortunately, the design of M&E reports and
data collection mechanisms were not in place at effectiveness and the project did not
develop any basic M&E tool prior to the Mid-Term Review (see Lessons Learned).

Turnover in the project coordination unit management put component C implementation
on hold until the mid-term review. During the mid-term review, it was agreed that CEDO
itself would be given the responsibility of implementing component C, and basic M&E
tools were developed by the training coordinator and the accountant of the CEDO. Level
one evaluation tools were eventually developed at the end of the project and allowed for
better impact measurement and subsequent strategy adjustments.

At the end of the project, the CEDO had the capacity to monitor its performances and
make good management decisions based on a set of key performance indicators. It should
be noted that the Association of African Distance Learning Centers (AADLC) is
currently developing a common M&E platform for all GDLN Centers in Africa that will
allow for benchmarking and the overall monitoring of the GDLN program in Africa.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project is category C and no safeguard was triggered. The CEDO is a small building
located in a developing urban area and thus did not trigger and safeguard. Moreover, this
project is viewed as a capacity-building project with no environmental impact.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Borrower has actually learned from this experience and drew the following Lessons:
(i) the CEDO is a useful capacity-building tool, and therefore should be maintained; (ii)
Distance learning is a cost efficient way to develop capacity therefore the GDLN
outreach should be extended beyond Ouagadougou. In order to do so, the Borrower took
the initiative to transfer the CEDO to University of Ouagadougou. The CEDO is now
benefiting from the institutional and financial support of the Post-Primary Education
Project 2 (PPEP-2). It will operate under the authority (tutelle) of the Ministry of
Secondary and High Education. The mandate of the University of Ouagadougou has
expanded to include a mission of capacity building and continuing education. Within the
framework of this new mandate, three distance learning centers are to be established (in
Ouagadougou, Bobo Dioulasso and Koudougou, respectively). The GDLN center will
naturally become the distance learning center of Ouagadougou and will bring its
experience and its affiliation to the Global Development Learning Network to the
University. Not only this transfer will enable the GDLN center to expand its outreach to
two secondary cities in Burkina Faso, but it will bring its experience of working with
GDLN to the University and it will also allow the center to become sustainable.



                                             6

This transfer has been initiated and supported by the government. This is the reason why
one can conclude that the Learning and Innovation aspects of this operation have been a
success.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objective as stated in the PAD is still relevant. The new PRSP and CAS include
explicit references to capacity-building needs as well as the use of technology to deliver
cost-efficient training and capacity development activities. The design of the project is
still relevant: it was mainly based on the experience of Senegal and Mauritania and was
used in following similar on-going operations in Mali and Kenya.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PDO was three-fold: (i) test the viability of the DLC; (ii) test the ability of GDLN to
access international knowledge; (iii) help coordinate all local training institutions in
regard to the national capacity building policy.

The viability of the DLC has not been reached as of October 31, 2008 (see indicator #... ).
However, after 10 years of GDLN implementation in AFR, no African GDLN Center has
been able to reach its financial viability within such a short period of time. The initial
design of the project planned at least 3 full years of operations before the center breaks
even. The delay in component 1 implementation, as well as the cost overrun of the
construction, led to a reduction in time and budget for the execution of components 2 and
3. Although, the DLC has not benefited from more than three years of operations as any
other Center in Africa Region, the extrapolation of the project performance over a fourth
year and the management issues on-going at the time of project closing, lead the Task
Team to close the project in October 2008 and seize the opportunity of the transfer to
ensure the viability of the Center. On October 31, 2008, the Key Performance Indicator
measuring the percentage of cost recovery by the DLC showed a Cost Recovery rate of
43%. As the Center did not break even by the project closing, this aspect is rated
Unsatisfactory.

The Center has hosted 256 of PRSP-related capacity building events, has allowed 3796
participants to benefit from the dissemination of good practice and has helped to foster
South-South knowledge exchange. "Level 1" evaluations conducted by the CEDO
provide evidence of the relevance and efficacy of the CEDO's services. (See tables under
3.6) This aspect is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

The coordination of other local training institutions by the CEDO Board has failed. The
Board members have never been committed to make this happen. This aspect is rated
Unsatisfactory.

The viability objective could not been reached within the given timeframe, neither the
coordination of local training institution one. However, the ability of GDLN to access


                                             7

international knowledge is the primary objective of this project. Therefore, the Task
Team weighted this aspect more than the two others and the overall rating of the
achievement of the PDO is Moderately Unsatisfactory instead of Unsatisfactory is the
3 aspects of the PDO were equally weighted (see Section 3.4).

3.3 Efficiency

The average cost of a learning event offered through the CEDO by a foreign program
partner on a topic that is not readily available locally is US$ 7,000. The average cost to
develop such a course locally is far more expensive. Since most of the courses offered by
the CEDO are shared by at least 3 other GDLN Centers in West Africa (Benin, Côte
d'Ivoire, Mauritania, Senegal), the marginal cost for the CEDO ranges between
US$1,500 and US$2,000. As the average occupancy rate of GDLN Centers is around 10
participants for such learning events, the participant fee they charge comes down to
US$ 150 /US$ 200, which is less than ten times below the fee one would need to pay to
train abroad. Therefore the CEDO, and by extension GDLN, is a cost-efficient way to
build capacity.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The PDO is still relevant. The PDO includes three distinct results to be achieved. First,
the project tested the viability of a GDLN Center. Second, this LIL tested the efficiency
of this new tool to build capacity in Burkina Faso. Third, the project through the CEDO
Board members was to design its own curriculum by offering training sessions on topics
unavailable locally. Based on the Participants survey carried out throughout the project
implementation, the CEDO has become a cost-efficient tool in Burkina Faso. However,
the project did not achieve two out of the three expected results of the PDO:
sustainability and putting in coherence the local capacity-building institutions. Therefore,
the overall outcome rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The gender balance has been carefully monitored throughout the project's
implementation, as shown in the table below. The project has ensured that the gender
ratio of participants reflects the reality of the professional environment in Burkina Faso.

               Total number        Male                Female
               of participants     Number %            Number %
Year 2005 316                      253         80%     63         20%
Year 2006 779                      578         74%     201        26%
Year 2007 1478                     1151        78%     327        22%
Year 2008 1379                     976         70%     403        30%
Total          3952                2958        75%     994        25%



                                                8

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The institutional impact of the project is rated Moderate. Thanks to the CEDO, the notion
of capacity building through distance learning was introduced in Burkina Faso. Most of
the themes offered by the CEDO are concordant with the PRSP. The CEDO impacted
institutional development in Burkina Faso, since it has been mainly targeting public
sector decision makers (see para. 3.6). However, it did not have the time to reach its
potential and the training budgets allocated to the different ministries are limited and not
necessarily spent on CEDO activities. Therefore, the CEDO has had a small impact on its
environment.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The participants were asked at the end of each session to rate several aspects of their
GDLN experience on a 1 to 5 scale, 1 being the lowest rate and 5 the highest.


 Efficiency of the GDLN platform                  Relevance of GDLN content
 1        2        3      4     5                 1        2      3        4      5
 15%      8%       24%    42% 26%                 1%       4%     3%       41% 25%


During the latest supervision missions, the Task Team met with several beneficiaries and
their direct supervisors. The overall feedback on the relevance, quality and added-value
of GDLN learning events is very positive. Specifically, participants appreciate the
flexibility and cost-efficiency of GDLN learning events and their direct supervisors
appreciate the fact that they can train without taking leaves from their work. During the
ICR mission, the Task Team had the opportunity to meet more former GDLN participants
who provided concrete evidence of CEDO's comparative advantages:

A representative of the Division of Irrigation Development at the Ministry of Agriculture,
Hydraulic and Halieutic resources explained how M&E courses designed and organized
by the Senegal GDLN center and offered to participants in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote
d'Ivoire, Mauritania and Senegal allowed them to learn about M&E good practices in the
field of irrigation and thus avoided the recruitment of an international consultant. Not
only these sessions did allow them to save on consultancy costs, but the sessions also
enhanced their capacity to build their own M&E tools.

A representative from the Division of Studies and Planning (DEP) at the Ministry of
Health participated in a "health insurance in Africa" course during which exchanges with
participants in the Benin GDLN center allowed him to identify good practices in




                                              9

neighboring countries and to disseminate this newly-acquired knowledge within his
sector in Burkina Faso.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

First, the timeframe allowed to this operation to break even was shorter than in any other
GDLN projects in Africa Region. This is due to the fact that the implementation was
delayed from the beginning with the construction of the Center. This affected the overall
implementation of the project and left the CEDO with only 3 full years to reach financial
viability. Had the Borrower not transfer the CEDO to the University of Ouagadougou, the
GDLN Center would have closed right after the project closing. The transfer and support
from both the University and the new Higher Education IDA-financed project provided
the CEDO with sufficient timeframe to reach its Development Objectives, in terms of
sustainability and cost-efficiency. Therefore, the Risk to Development Outcome is rated
Moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Bank's lending performance was unsatisfactory. The preparation team guided the
Government in setting up a new institution and promoting a new development concept
based on the success of Senegal and Cote d'Ivoire. The assumptions made in the PAD
were mostly based on lessons learned in countries with more favorable environment. This
led to the transfer of the DLC to the University of Ouagadougou after the end of the
project. This new arrangement could have been considered from the beginning and thus
helped the DLC staff focusing their efforts on marketing activities. Because of time
constraints for completing the construction, the project design included several
weaknesses (see para. 2.1 and the Lessons Learned section for details). During project
preparation, discussions with other donors have not been sufficient and the Task Team
had to deal with construction issues instead of focusing on the identification of capacity
building needs and the future potential DLC partners.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Regular supervision missions allowed for proper reports on the project's overall progress.
The Bank supervision team (Task Team Leader, procurement specialist, financial
management specialist, IT officer) was available to CEDO's management and kept
informed on the project issues. Particular attention was given to procurement, financial
management and M&E aspects. Assistance was also provided through the GDLN
secretariat in WBI and ISG on content provision, identification of new partners and
clients and on technical matters. Issues which were under the control of the Bank
supervision team were identified in due course and strong recommendations were made
to the project management (marketing, M&E, partnership).



                                            10

The project implementation faced several difficulties, in particular regarding the
leadership aspect of the CEDO Board and Manager. The Task Team sent strong signals
to the CEDO Board, organized videoconferences, met with Board members to explain the
issues and its concerns. The Task Team downgraded the project to MU or U and was so
candid about the project issues that the Board proposed to put the renewal of the Project
Director to a vote. As recorded in the Minutes of the Board meeting, a majority of Board
members voted against the renewal (9 to 5) and eventually renewed the contract anyway.

The Task Team has been pro-active throughout the project implementation, agreeing on
strong conditions, actions and results when the credit closing extension was approved.
However, the lack of leadership from the CEDO Manager and Board offset the Task
Team's efforts and affected the overall implementation.

Given the good results in terms of cost-efficiency as shown by the regular participant
surveys and the very positive feedback the Task Team received during Supervision
mission, cancellation was never considered. The late pro-activity demonstrated by the
Government shown that the repeated and joint efforts of the Country Office and the Task
Team resulted in a positive outcome (see sections 2.5 and 4).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

Because the good supervision performance compensated the weaknesses during the
lending phase, the overall Bank's performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government of Burkina Faso borrowed IDA funds to finance the establishment of a
GDLN center. However, most of the ministries have not been allocated sufficient funds
for training and capacity building activities, including learning events that could be
offered by CEDO.

After the first change in institutional anchor, the newly formed Ministry of Economics
and Finance proposed to sign a general agreement with CEDO for the provision of
training and capacity building events for all the ministries, based on a simple learning
needs assessment. Unfortunately, this agreement was never finalized due to the early
departure of the minister.

The new minister of Economics and Finance has committed to follow up on this initiative.
In addition, the Government, through the Prime Minister office, has proposed to continue
supporting the CEDO through a new IDA-funded project (PPEP-2). This way, the CEDO
is expected to reach its development objectives by benefiting from additional time and
IDA funds. CEDO will thus have as much time as the other centers in Africa to reach its
financial sustainability.    Additionally, CEDO will benefit from the support of the



                                             11

University of Ouagadougou, whose mandate has been expanded to include capacity
building and knowledge exchange for professionals.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory
This rating is two-fold and covers i) the DLC and ii) its Board.
The DLC performance has been affected by a weak capacity in i) management; ii)
marketing and communication; iii) inter-personal issues among the staff; iv) English
language skills. The DLC performance is rated Unsatisfactory.
The Board has never played its role during the course of the project implementation.
Despite several strong recommendations about the importance of the involvement and
pro-activity of each of the Board member, none of them has ever contributed by
providing CEDO with a clear capacity needs analysis of his sector, nor promoted the
CEDO services in his sector. Therefore, the expected coordination of the local institutions
at the Board has never happened. The performance of the Board is rated Unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
At the end of the project's implementation, the poor performance of the Board was
counter balanced by increased support from the government. The Minister of Finance
came up with a proposal to all other ministries to prepare a capacity development needs
analysis and asked the CEDO to draft a services proposal based on this analysis for a total
amount of F-CFA 248,000,000 to meet these needs. Unfortunately, the Minister was
replaced and his successor did not have the opportunity to follow up on this initiative
before the closing date of the project. Therefore the overall borrower performance is rated
Moderately Unsatisfactory




6. Lessons Learned

Given the importance of the Lessons Learned in the case of a LiL, this section divides the
Lessons into two groups: (i) the general lessons on this LiL; and (ii) the lessons specific
to the GDLN.

    A. General lessons learned:

Evaluation of the Results of a Learning and Innovation Loan: as mentioned in section 3,
some key aspects of the PDO are rated Unsatisfactory. However, the Government has
learned and innovated in terms of capacity-building mechanisms and institutional
arrangements to make the CEDO sustainable. LiL outcomes may need to be evaluated
differently and only on the PDO as originally conceived.

Replication of the Project Design: the project design was replicated directly from GDLN
projects being implemented in Senegal and Cote d'Ivoire at the time of the Appraisal.
The new success of these two operations led the GDLN Coordination team to replicate
the design in Burkina Faso without properly identified the differences in context and


                                             12

capacity and adapt the design accordingly. This resulted in significant shortcomings
during the project implementation, in particular in terms of Government support and
availability of capacity-building funds from the public sector.

Capacity of management and team: this is a key factor of success for a GDLN Center.
The highest possible attention needs to be paid on the adequacy between the ToRs and
the profile and experience of the staff to be recruited in future GDLN Centers, in
particular in the areas of business management, entrepreneurship, marketing and
communication and English language skills. In the case of Côte d'Ivoire, the strong
management and communication skills of the staff have allowed the GDLN Center to
maintain a good level of activity in spite of a very difficult political environment.

Consistency of government support: strong support from the government is another key
success factor for a GDLN Center to become a well recognized and well utilized capacity
building facility, since the primary target audience of a GDLN Center consists of senior
policy makers within the public administration. In Côte d'Ivoire and in Senegal, the
governments have provided continuous support through the sponsoring of learning
activities and the promotion of the Center's services across the ministries and the major
administrations.

Participatory process during project preparation: the lack of pro-activity from the Board
members comes from the fact that they were appointed by the government without prior
consultation nor indications on the role they were expected to play, which resulted in
their lack of commitment and interest in providing support to the project. The Task Team
suggests that the Board members be identified through their profiles and their potential
personal interest in the mission of the GDLN center.

Importance of M&E: the mechanisms of M&E must be developed during the project
preparation phase. The M&E skills must be included in the ToRs of at least one of the
DLC staff. The M&E component could not be implemented by the Project Coordination
Unit because of the turnover and the workload of the STC-PDES staff. The evaluation
tasks should be carried out by a consultant or a specialist on an ad hoc basis. Budget
provision for this staff should be planned in the initial project design.

Use of PPF funds vs. construction of a GDLN Center: the Government took a huge risk
by financing a GDLN-specific building through the PPF. Two lessons can be drawn from
this point: (i) future GDLN Centers, if they need to be constructed from scratch should
not be financed through the PPF (lessons taken into account by the GDLN projects in
Kenya and Mali), except if the design of the future building is generic enough to be used
for other purposes if the credit/grant never becomes effective; and (ii) the establishment
of a new GDLN Center should implied minimum construction and maximum utilization
of existing facilities in order to minimize the initial investment.

    B. Specific lessons learned:




                                              13

Availability of public sector funds for capacity-building activities: Moreover, a
government should not invest into a GDLN Center unless it has allocated sufficient
budget funds to develop and implement a clear national capacity building strategy.
Although participation in a number of GDLN learning events can be sponsored by donor
agencies, it is essential that key ministries and governmental agencies have an annual
budget for training and capacity building activities, part of which can be organized
through the local GDLN Center.

Institutional arrangements and role of the Board: two lessons have been drawn from this
aspect:
(i)     the status of "association" (neither public nor private) did not allow the center to
benefit from the whole necessary support of the government. The autonomy requested by
the project team at the beginning at the project backfired eventually when the
Government's ownership gradually decreased along the project execution. This issue is
also visible in Mauritania: in both countries, the private sector is not sufficiently
developed to offset the lack of support of the public sector. Therefore, the Task Team
suggests that the legal status and autonomy vis-à-vis the government be carefully
analyzed during the preparation phase in order to better anticipate the future support of
the government or the involvement of the private sector; and
(ii)    the institutional arrangements did not allow the Center from benefitting from
direct financial support from the public sector. At the end of the project, the Government
drew some lessons from the absence of public funding to the CEDO and modified the
institutional arrangements accordingly with the transfer of the CEDO to the University of
Ouagadougou.

GDLN center positioning: when a GDLN center offers a training course in a topic that is
already offered by local training institutions and does not take advantage of the expertise
globally available across the network, it loses its comparative advantages. The marketing
and communication strategy of a GDLN center should focus on its real comparative
advantage, i.e., its affiliation to the network: learning event design and facilitation, and
access to a wide range of regional, national and international development expertise.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
None.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                             14

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

1. CONSTRUCTION AND
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE                     1.20               1.60
DLC
2. SUPPORT FOR DLC
OPERATIONS                               1.00               0.60

3. MONITORING &
EVALUATION                               0.10               0.10


            Total Baseline Cost          2.30               2.30

Physical Contingencies                   0.00               0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                      0.00               0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs         0.00               1.50
Front-end fee PPF                        1.20               1.20            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required           2.30               2.30




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                        0.20         0.20         100%
International Development
Association (IDA)                               2.30         2.30         100%

Local Sources of Borrowing Country              1.00         0.50         50%




                                           15

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1 ­ Construction and establishment of the DLC: Moderately Satisfactory

a) Construction and equipment: Satisfactory
The construction is of high quality and the equipment is perfectly adequate to carry out
the mission of the CEDO. The design of the building benefited from the experience of the
other GDLN centers and took into account the lessons learned from the Senegal and the
Mauritania GDLN centers.

b) Institutional arrangements: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The choice of the DLC legal status was based on experience of other centers and the need
to ensure sufficient autonomy for the center to operate as a private entity. The
constitution of the DLC Board was also based on the experience of other centers (Benin,
Senegal, Mauritania) and offers a balanced representation of public sector, private sector
and civil society. The Board included representatives of local training institutions in order
to coordinate these local training institutions in regard to the national capacity building
policy (see PDO ii). Neither the Board nor the first Ministry of tutelle ever play their role
and supported the DLC. Following the credit closing extension in December 2006 and the
move of the project's institutional anchorage to the new Ministry of Economy and
Finance, the support from the Government started increasing and reached a satisfactory
level. Unfortunately, it was too late to offset the poor performance of the Center prior to
the project closing. But it provides us with the evidence that the project's Institutional
Arrangements were sound and were mainly affected by interpersonal issues between the
DLC and the Ministry.

c) Staffing: Moderately Unsatisfactory
This sub-component is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The staff of the CEDO was
recruited through an international call for applications, according to IDA procedures.
However, there are serious short-comings among the staff in terms of management,
marketing and communication, English language and M&E skills that have hampered the
implementation of component 2. Despite those short-comings, the management has a
good knowledge of the Burkina Faso environment and of the local training institutions.
The staff has satisfactorily implemented the financial management, procurement and
technology-related aspects of the project. The staff has been pro-active and efficient in
the coordination activities within the AADLC.

Component 2 ­ Support for the DLC operations: Moderately Unsatisfactory
This component is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

a) Overall project management: Unsatisfactory
The Board members did not play their role. The expected pro-activity in terms of
monitoring CEDO management, deciding CEDO policy, and providing recommendations
and coaching to help the center becoming self-sustaining did not happen. Despite several



                                             16

   discussions with the Task Team on the lack of commitment of the Board members, the
   project has never benefited from the experience, the network and the privileged position
   of the Board members within their respective sectors.

   The management of the CEDO is rated Unsatisfactory due to a number of serious issues
   that have occurred in the course of the implementation: lack of communication with the
   Board, absence of marketing strategy, conflicts among the staff, which led to the
   departure of the IT officer, and to serious communication problems between the manager
   and the rest of the team.

   b) DLC activities: Moderately Unsatisfactory
   This rating is calculated according to 3 key aspects of DLC activities: number of topics
   covered, relevance of those topics according to the PRSP and number of participants. As
   of October 31, 2008, the number of participants who benefited from the CEDO services
   is 3,796 (target: 6,000). The number of topics covered by the CEDO's activities is
   between 9 and 14 per year, which is above the expected target of 5. The number of
   activities that are relevant to PRSP's priorities is 116 (target: 60). Although the project
   has exceeded the target values on the last two aspects, the weak performance in terms of
   number of participants justifies the MU rating.

                      Gender                              Sector
       Number     of
Year   participants   Male              Female            Public            Other
                      Number     %      Number %          Number %          Number %
2005   336            227        68%    109       32%     188       56%     148      44%
2006   775            575        74%    200       26%     593       77%     182      23%
2007   1566           1218       78%    359       23%     1342      86%     224      14%
2008   1119           769        69%    323       29%     883       79%     236      12%
Total 3796            2789       73%    991       27%     3006      79%     790      21%

   Component 3 ­ M&E operations: Moderately Unsatisfactory

   The initial project implementation arrangements planned to split the implementation of
   this component between the project coordination unit for the evaluation and the CEDO
   for the monitoring. The purpose of this arrangement was to ensure that the CEDO
   performances were assessed by an external entity. The difficulties faced by the DLC team
   in implementing component 2 have prevented them from focusing on designing and
   developing monitoring tools. In addition, the turnover within the project coordination unit
   (STC-PDES) has prevented them from conducting the evaluation activities. The mid-term
   review focused on the revision of the KPIs, the development of data collection
   mechanisms to feed into a sound M&E system, and the validation of the overall project
   results chain. Since the mid-term review, the DLC staff has carried out basic M&E
   activities that allow for an accurate assessment of the CEDO's performances. However,
   the lack of proficiency M&E skills within the CEDO staff prevented them from
   developing impact evaluation tools.




                                                17

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

N/A




                                    18

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title               Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                       Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Begnadehi Claude Bationo Operations Officer               AFMBF
Helene Bertaud           Sr Counsel                       LEGAF
William Dakpo            Procurement Specialist            AFTPC
Marwane Diallo           Consultant                       AFTFM
Oumar Ouattara           Consultant                       AFMBF
Tassere Pitroipa         Information Analyst               AFRIT
Laurent Porte            Program Officer                  WBIGM
Aguiratou Savadogo-Tinto Transport Specialist              AFTTR
Seraphine Sawadogo       Executive Assistant              AFMBF
Mamadou Yaro             Sr Financial Management Specia   AFTFM



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                       1                         2.94
  FY03                                       2                        10.91
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                        Total:               3                        13.85
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                       1                         8.39
  FY04                                       3                        12.42
  FY05                                      10                        29.90
  FY06                                       7                        35.43
  FY07                                       5                        38.13
  FY08                                       5                        36.40
  FY09                                                                 0.00
                        Total:              31                       160.67




                                         19

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The results presented below are the summary of the beneficiary Satisfaction Survey
carried out throughout the project implementation in order to get a clear idea of the
efficiency of the GDLN Center in terms of building the capacity of participants. At the
end of each session held by the DLC, each participant is required to fill out the
satisfaction survey form which is eventually consolidated with statistical data on the
profile of participants. The results presented below are the consolidated data for 2008.

            Manager          of        my                     Already attended a
            department/institution                            GDLN session
            yes            no                                 yes         no
Survey      17%            83%                    Survey      27%         73%



           Quality of the pedagogical                         Good practice
           approach                                           identification
           1      2    3       4       5                      yes      no
Survey     2%     2% 24%       41%     29%        Survey      88%      2%



           Efficiency of the IT services
           of GDLN
           1     2    3       4      5
Survey     0% 2% 29% 59% 10%

           Relevance of the topic for
           my career development
           1     2     3      4      5
Survey     2% 0% 15% 54% 29%




                                             20

          Usefulness of the knowledge
          acquired in the context of my job
          1     2     3      4     5
Survey    0% 2% 29% 39%            29%

After the end of the project, the GDLN M&E application developed by AADLC (through
an IDF Grant) will replace the basic Monitoring tools developed by the DLC. The M&E
application is web-based and comprehensive and allows for an efficient consolidation of
data and benchmarking with other GDLN Centers.

The complete data and tables are available per year and per type of activities. This annex
shows only the summary tables relevant to the ICR and the analysis of the project
performances.




Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                           21

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

The Borrower's ICR was transmitted late in the ICR preparation process. The report
provides a lot of detailed tables regarding the financial aspects and activity level of the
project. However, the analytical aspect of the project performance does not go into depth
and does not draw conclusions. Here are the main points made by the Borrower:

The institutional arrangements: the Borrower's report points out that although the initial
idea of establishing the CEDO as an independent Association was a good way to ensure
autonomy and flexibility, it backfired in the course of the project execution in two ways:
(i) the Board members were representatives of local training institutions who perceived
the CEDO as a competitor instead of an opportunity to expand their respective outreach;
and (ii) the de facto autonomy of the CEDO made it lose gradually the Government's
support.

Role of the World Bank: the Borrower's report highlights the frustration of the project
team vis a vis the World Bank country office. Being financed by the IDA, the CEDO
expected more support from the World Bank and in particular the Country Office in
Ouagadougou. The CEDO was counting on the World Bank to assist them in contacting
other donors, promote the CEDO among other donor-financed projects. Although the
Borrower recognizes that the World Bank made the efforts (particularly during
supervision missions), this has not been enough and the performances would have been
better, had the World Bank pushed a little more the other projects of the portfolio to use
this tool for their respective capacity-building/training components.

Role of the Government: the Borrower's report underlines the lack of pro-active support
from the Government, particularly at the beginning of the CEDO's operations. The
CEDO team expected more from the Ministry of Economic Development at the
beginning and the Government overall eventually.

Overall, the conclusions of the Borrower's report are in line with the ICR's ones. The
different point of view on the role of the World Bank is due to the different perception of
the role of the donor in the execution of the project. Although the World Bank, including
through its Country Office in Ouagadougou, could have played a more active role in
promoting the activities and using the services of the CEDO, the institutional
arrangements and the autonomy of the CEDO were meant to push the project team to be
pro-active and engage in a more aggressive marketing strategy.




                                              22

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    23

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document
Financial Analysis and Assumptions (Excel Workbook)
Development Credit Agreement
Project Activity reports (including Beneficiary Surveys)
Supervision Aide-memoires
Implementation Status and Results (ISRs)




                                            24

