Report No. PIC4529
Project Name                   Argentina-National Pension...
Administration Technical Assistance Loan
Region                         Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                         Public Sector Management
Project ID                     ARPA46821
Borrower                       Ministry of Economy
Implementing Agency            ANSeS
Av. Leandro Alem 650, 80 piso, (1001)
Buenos Aires
Telephone: 54.1.315.03.40;
Fax: 54.1.313.61.94
Date this PID Prepared         December 1996
Appraisal Date                 July 1996
Expected Board Date            February 1997
1.   Country and Sector Background. Until 1993, the Argentine national
pension system was a publicly-administered pay-as-you-go system
providing for a universal entitlement. This system suffered from
widespread evasion, lax disability rules and low retirement ages, and
would have required an impossible contribution rate of 50 percent for
equilibrium.
2.   To deal with this situation, in 1994 the Government introduced a
new integrated system, with a publicly-administered basic pension, and
an additional pension for which affiliates may choose between a public
and a private option. The private option is based on individual
capitalization accounts managed by pension fund administrators
(Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones - AFJP). This,
and other measures such as ceilings on pensions (with gradual reductions
for current pensions above the ceilings) and increases in the retirement
ages, is expected to eventually lead the pension system to equilibrium.
3.   Payments for the public portion of the pension system are
administered by the National Social Security Administration (ANSeS),
which issues approximately 3.5 million payment orders per month. This
will represent, for 1996, an outlay of US$15.3 billion. Years of
inadequate granting and payment processes have created considerable
distortions due to errors as well as fraud. Initial estimates by the
government put the amount of overpayment at a minimum of US$300 million
per year. In addition, a diagnostic study commissioned by ANSeS in 1995
revealed a number of serious deficiencies in the provision of services
to the clients. An improved administration of the public pension system
is clearly indicated.
4.   In 1993, the National and Provincial Governments agreed to transfer
the provincial pension funds to the national system. To date, ten
provinces (including the Municipality of Buenos Aires) have agreed to
the transfer. Absorption of these funds by the National Pension System



(see 1/) would ensure that the same conditions and benefits now offered
to the private sector and federal civil servants are available to
provincial civil servants.
5.   Project Objectives. The objectives of this project are to help
ANSeS improve its institutional efficiency and effectiveness in
accordance with modern management principles in order to: (a) reduce
undue pension payments; (b) improve the quality of its client services;
and (c) absorb the Provincial Pension Funds.
6.   Project Description. The project, whose total cost is estimated at
US$40 million, would be implemented over a four-year period starting in
1997. It would finance technical assistance, consulting firms and the
acquisition of computer equipment, through four components: (a) Fraud
and Error Control. Activities in this component aim to reduce
unwarranted disbursements due to fraud and error by desk-checking
existing paper files, carrying out on-site visits where necessary, and
updating the beneficiary database. To facilitate sustainability, a Fraud
Control Unit would be set up, in charge of verifying procedures and
investigating cases of fraud; (b) Improvement of Client Service Quality.
Agencies will be reorganized to provide one-stop, full-service 'points
of sale', and provided with new processes and systems, trained
personnel, and an upgraded infrastructure; (c) Provincial Pension Fund
Transfers. The Provincial Pension Funds of up to 22 provinces will be
absorbed into the national system after a verification of its files and
elimination of errors and fraud; (d) Institutional Strengthening. These
activities include the introduction of a new organizational structure,
management techniques and an incentive system linked with performance,
as well as central monitoring and control and support operations such as
maintaining the central database and telecommunications facilities.
7.   Project Administration. An administrative unit will be set up in
ANSeS, charged with procurement and accounting. Bank financing will
cover the project administrator and accountant, and the establishment of
an accounting and performance monitoring system. All other costs will be
the responsibility of the counterpart.
8.   Project Financing. The reform program envisaged will initially
involve expenditures of about US$40 million. The Bank will contribute
half, and the Ministry of Economy will contribute an equal amount.
9.   Project Implementation. The Executing Agency will be the National
Social Security Administration (ANSeS).
10. Sustainability. Achieving a sustainable culture change in a large
organization commonly takes ten or more years, and is beyond the scope
of any one project. The results of the proposed project, although
substantial, will be transitory unless the Government of Argentina
builds upon these initial efforts, creating a learning organization
capable of incrementally improving itself to achieve its objectives. The
project will lay the groundwork for this, by introducing an internal and
external client orientation; processes clearly aligned with the
objectives; a structure consistent with the processes; and a management
which permits accountability and authority (including budgetary
authority) in line with the objectives and processes.
-2 -



11. Lessons Learned from Past Operations. Many lessons have been drawn
from technical assistance projects, which this project attempts to
address. Two may be particularly underlined: the danger of lack of
continuity of counterpart management and the lack of early
implementation capacity. For the first issue, a Steering Committee has
been constituted, chaired by the Secretary of Social Security, to whom
the National Director will report semi-annually. Should the National
Director change, the Steering Committee would provide continuity.
12. Bank experience clearly indicates that one of the major sources of
delays in implementation is the lack of knowledge of project management
and Bank procedures. To eliminate this problem, an experienced project
administrator and an accountant/procurement specialist will be hired
through the project. These are the only two long-term consulting
assignments contemplated.
13. Poverty Category. N. A.
14. Environmental Aspects. The proposed project is not expected to have
any environmental impacts.
15. Program Objective Categories. The primary category is Public Sector
Management (PB).
1/   With all its problems, the national pension system is considered to
be better administered than the provincial funds.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending December 13, 1996.
- 3 -



