Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-702 1-AR
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ARGENTINA
NATIONAL PENSION ADMINISTRATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
December 30, 1996
¶yL.  77l  . 



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Argentine Peso
Arg$1  US$1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFJP            Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaci6n y Pensiones/Pension Funds
Administrators
ANA         =   Administracion Nacional de Aduanas /National Customs Administration
ANSeS       =   Administraci6n Nacional de Seguridad Social/National Social Security
Administration
ANSSAL    =   Administraci6n Nacional de Seguros de la Saludl National Administration of
Health Insurance
CAS         =   Country Assistance Strategy
DGI         =   Direccion General Impositiva/General Tax Directorate
EDP         =   Electronic Data Processing
ESW         =   Economic and Sector Work
GDP         =   Gross Domestic Product
ICB         =   International Competitive Bidding
ICR         =   Implementation Completion Report
IDB         =   Inter-American Development Bank
IDTA        =   Institutional Development Technical Assistance
IMF         =   International Monetary Fund
LIB         =   Limited International Bidding
ME          =   Ministerio de Economia y Obras y Servicios Pzublicos/Ministry of Economy
NCB         =   National Competitive Bidding
NPD         =   National Project Director
NPS         =   National Pension System
PAP         =   Prestaci6n Adicional de Permanencia/Additional Permanent Benefit
PAU         =   Project Administration Unit
PBU         =   Pensi6n Basica Universal/Basic Universal Pension
PC              Compensatory Pension
PPF         =   Provincial Pension Fund
SOE         =   Statement of Expenditure
VAT         =   Value Added Tax
UDAI        =   Unidad de Asistencia Integrall Full Assistance Units
UN/OPS    =   United Nations Office of Project Services
UNDP        =   United Nations Development Programme
Vice President (acting):    Mr. Sri-Ram Aiyer
Director (acting):          Mr. Luis Chang
Division Chief (acting):    Mr. Stefan Alber
Task Manager:               Mr. Luis-Jose Mejia



ARGENTINA
NATIONAL PENSION ADMINISTRATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Section A: Background and Project Descnption ..............................................1
Section B: Project Administration and Implementation ..............................................                 17
Procurement and Disbursement Tables .............................................                             18
Project Implementation Plan and Cost Tables ............................................. 22
Key Objectives and Performance Indicators                             .............................................. 31
Applicauon of Lessons Learned in Technical Assistance Projects ............................. 33
Project Supervision Plan ..............................................                                      37
Section C: Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File .............................. 38






ARGENTINA
NATIONAL PENSION ADMINISTRATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
SECTION A:
BACKGROUND AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The New Integrated Pension System'
i.     Argentina reformed its national pension system in mid- 19942, when it substituted the
old pay-as-you-go system by a new mixed public/private two-pillar structure. The old system
suffered from a very high dependency ratio that was, in tum, caused by widespread evasion,
low retirement ages, and lax disability rules. Other problems were the promise of very high
indexed pensions relative to wages and the prevalence of special regimes that allowed for early
retirement and encouraged evasion. This system required an unsustainable contribution rate of
50 percent. Unable to impose such a high rate, the Government rieduced it to 21 percent and
reduced the replacement rate to half its target level, paying pensions with notes. Despite these
measures, the system ran deficits during the 1980s.
2.     The erosion of the real value of pensions prompted a barrage of lawsuits by
pensioners. In 1991, the Government recognized the past debt to pensioners and offered cash
payments with a limit of 1,580 pesos or payments with new bonds (dollars or pesos) with a
maturity of ten years. The total recognized debt amounted to 7. 5 billion pesos or 3.5 percent
of GDP.
3.     In 1994, the Government introduced a new integrated pension system. This system,
compulsory for all workers including the self-employed, has the f'ollowing structure:
(a)   The First Pillar is all public, financed by employers' contributions, earmarked
taxes and budgetary allocations. The employers' contributions are legally stipulated at
16 percent of wages, but discounts given to some sectors, and regions Ihave reduced the
average contribution to an estimated 14.7 percent.
From the Provincial Pension Reforn Adjustment Loan. August 19. 1996. (Report No. P-6967-AR)
2     Vide, Dimitn Vittas "Argenuna, New Integrated Pension SvstenM First Year Assessmeit", mimeo.



2
(b)    This pillar is responsible for three types of benefits:
(i)     a basic universal pension (PBU) equal to 27.5 percent of the average
covered wage, subject to a minimum eligibility period of 30 years and a normal
retirement age of 65 for men and 60 for women;
(ii)    a transitory compensatory pension (PC) for past contributions to the old
system, paying a pension equal to 1.5 percent of the average indexed salary of
the last 10 years of employment for every year of contribution to the old
system; and
(iii)    a pension paid to existing pensioners, also transitory.
(c)    The Second Pillar is financed by an 11 percent contribution rate by employees,
who have the option to invest it in a private pension fumd or in the national system:
(i)    the private option is a defined contribution system based on individual
capitalization accounts managed by pension funds administrators
(Admninistradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones- AFJPs). The old-age
pension from this system will be in the form of 2L life annuity or scheduled
withdrawals based on the accumulated balance of each account, and will be
covered by group disability and life insurance. As of end 1995, about 5 million
workers had chosen to join one of the AFJPs, representing 55 percent of all
eligible workers and over 60 percent of affiliated workers.
(ii)    the public option is a defined-benefit' scheme. It provides a public
pension (PAP) of 0.85 percent of the average indexed monthly salary of the last
10 years of employment for every year of service to the new system, and will
also cover disability and survivorship benefits, s:imilar to those offered by the
private component.
4.       This pension system is based on one of the highest labor taxes in the world;
approximately 38% of gross salaries, compared to around 20% for the US, New Zealand and
Chile. It will require further reform to make it sustainable. For example, Government is
considering adjusting the sizes of the pillars relative to one another, and lowering the flat
pension to convert it into a safety net.
5.       Collections are carried out by the General Tax Directorate (DGI), which is undergoing
restructuring under its new General Director. Evasion is high; only 58.8 percent of potential
contributors actually pay, which the government estimates causes a deficit of some US$450
million per month.
3       Defined benefit: Specifies the amount of benefit due if participants mcet the eligibility criteria, such as age, years of work. minimum of
years under program coverage. 'The most common provide a pension based on a percentage of pre-retirement earnings. The benetits are
guaranteed, usually by govermient. and paid by a combination of current contributions ('pay.as..you-go"), accrued reserves or both. These
benefits permit transfen of income between groups (income or age). Defined contributions: Benefits depend on the contributions made, which are
inverted.



3
6.     Payments are administered by the National Social Security Administration (ANSeS),
which issues approximately 3.5 million payment orders per month. This will represent, for
1996, about US$15.3 billion. Inadequate granting and payment processes create a potential for
considerable distortions due to fraud and simple errors. Initial estimates by the government put
the amount of overpayment at a minimum of US$300 million per year; less conservative
estimates put the figure nearer to US$1 billion per year (the pension files are so inaccurate that
it is difficult to come up with a more precise estimate without an extensive corrective effort).
An improved administration of the public pension system is clearly indicated.
Pension Administration
7.     ANSeS is responsible for the administration of the public; component of the new
integrated pension system, covering old age, disability, widow an,d orphan funds, as well as
other social security schemes such as Farmily Allowances, the Naltional Employment Fund
(includes financing of retraining), and the administration of third party benefits such as military
and police pensions. In addition, it manages the resources of the Health Service Administration
(ANSSAL) and the National Social Security Institute for Retirees and Pensioners (INSSJP). In
all, ANSeS administers approximately 45% of the National Budget.
O.     ANSeS' operational budget is US$644 million per year. Of this, 48% represents
payments to the General Tax Directorate (DGI) and to some 80 lbanks (who handle payments).
ANSeS provides services to its clients through approximately 8,800 employees in 146 agencies
nationwide.
Status of the Pension Files
9.     In July 1995, letters were sent to 2.9 million pensioners asking for confirmation in
person of their right to receive a pension. The results were as follows:
* About 270,000 were represented by third parties. Of these, 30% were found to
have errors and irregularities.
*  About 188,000 did not come, nor did they send representatives. About 15% are
estimated to be fraudulent.
* About 316,000 people who presented themselves to the agencies had documentary
errors.
* About 391,000 people who presented themselves to the agencies had no
documentation at all.
10.     Government estimates that savings of a minimum of US$279 million per year would
result from correcting these errors. The review and correction of the errors detected requires
extensive desk-checking against scanty information, applying olcl and sometimes obsolete legal
frameworks, with site visits in many cases. This effort would be financed under the proposed
project.



4
11.     Benefit calculations are carried out under very lax circumstances. A conservative
estimate puts at US$278 million the savings resulting verification of past grantings.
12.     An additional US$6 million per year in savings would result from tighter controls
applied to new grantings.
13.     A pilot comparison with one provincial fund (Municipality of Buenos Aires), showed
that 9,000 (14%) of the provincial pensioners received pensions from both pension funds. A
sample of 800 cases showed that 67% had incompatible pensions. A rough estimate puts the
savings for all provinces due to double pensions at approximately US$20 million per year.
14.     There are many other estimates of potential savings. However, given the number of
files to be reviewed, the lack of documentation, the incomplete merging of the previous 18
pension programs, and the lack of historical data for comparison, it is not possible to make an
accurate estimate before more substantial reviews of the files are carried out, reviews which
would be financed under the proposed project.
15.     Tentatively and conservatively, the Government has agreed to consider savings of
US$300 million per year as the absolute minimum to be obtained from the strengthening of
ANSeS.
Institutional Status of the Organization
16.     Before the creation of the National Pension System, pensions were administered by
about 20 independent organizations (e.g., Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Police and the
Army), not including provincial administrations. Each organization had different procedures for
collections, grantings and payments. as well as different benefit rules. In 1991, the National
Pension Administration (ANSeS) was created as a semi-autonomous institution, merging 18 of
these organizations. However, the different programs were inadequately merged. For all
practical purposes, ANSeS administers 18 different programs, each with its own rules,
personnel and pay scales.
17.     In 1995, ANSeS decided to carry out an in-depth diagnostic of the institution. A
consulting firm was selected, and the review of the organization, procedures and staff took
place during November/December 1995.
18.     The diagnostic found:
*  A lack of definition of the mnission of the organization
*  No long-term planning
*  No prioritization of objectives
* Poor service to cLients
* Little clarity concerning the grantings and payments processes
*  Uncoordinated and insecure automated systems



S
* Inefficient internal organization
*  No clarity in the responsibilities of management and staff
*  No clarity in resource ailocation methods
*  An incentive scheme which did not permit rewards or sanctions
*  No internal communications
19.     The diagnostic team found that there was no shared vision of the institution and no
sense of belonging. There was no attempt to promote on merit, and criteria for promotion
were at best unclear and at worst passive (seniority, obedience, adherence to the letter of
instructions). Management had no clear objectives, a vague definition of its responsibilities (the
same is true for staff), very little information for control and no performance indicators,
resulting in a clear absence of accountability.
20.     The functional orientation of the organizational structure was detrimental to
coordinated effort. For example, an upgrade of agencies requirinlg infrastructure
improvements, new systems and training of personnel, would be carried out independently by
three different departments, with at best a loss of synergy, and at worst conflicting activities.
21.     ANSeS has cultural values based on stability and compliance with form. In the
absence of a policy for administration and human resources, with no performance measurement
and with an incentive system based on obscure criteria, salary distortions and low motivation
have resulted in low morale and endemic corruption. There are fiew highly qualified, and little
use is made of office equipment.
22.     The administrative and accounting systems are inadequate. Although about USS300
million is spent on the administration of ANSeS, no one is sure how this money is spent. There
is no system of cost centers and no way of evaluating the efficierncy of any area, nor are there
incentives to use resources efficiently. This results in cases like the following:
*  The child care center has one employee for every 3 children.
*  Janitorial services cost an average of US$5,200 each month for every 1000 m2.
Market rates are closer to $2,000.
* ANSeS rents many of its locales - yet at the same time it owns numerous empty
buildings. In Buenos Aires, 20.3% of ANSeS' available office space (123,000 mn2) is
on "loan" (free) to other state entities; 9 5%  is unused, and 14.2%/0 is misused for
archiving. A review of space use could save ANSeS about US$5 rnillion a year.
US$23 million is spent per year in improving the infrastructure. There is no
measure of effectiveness of this effort, except for the dilapidated state of existing
buildings, which do not show the effects of this large amount.
* The number of staff is unknown; although estimated at 8,800. Of these, 279 were
found in the accounting database (i.e., being paid) but not in the Human Resources



6
database (i.e., no record of what they do). Another 134 staff were found who
belonged to no recognizable unit.
23.     ANSeS' critical Systems and Processes were found to be confusing and inadequate.
ANSeS staff still apply the original 18 different legal frameworics, there are no clear processes
and no uniformity on decision criteria (e.g., for awards or disputes), and there are multiple
systems operating on several databases without control mechanisms.
24.     The award process has no controls. There are at least four ways to create an illegal
benefit: for example, upon the death of a person, it is possible to modify the database to
include a partner (spouse, sibling, child, etc.). There are also no post-award verifications, even
of the amounts awarded. A total of 340,000 updates are made to the database each month,
representing an average of US$360 million per year. There is no automated verification, and
data input has been calculated to have an error rate of 40 percent. The databases do not
contain sufficient information on past payments, and so pensions are estimated only roughly.
25.     The payment process is equally unchecked. The banks charge US$90 million per year
for payments, but there is no control over the length of time or of accuracy. Every month an
estimated 70,000 payments are not cashed, but no follow-up is carried out. All payment orders
are printed, even though the vast majority are repetitive and electronic payment orders could
easily be used. Perhaps the most striking example of the lack of attention to the payment
process is given by one detail: unlike normal practice, the payment system always rounds up
centavos to the nearest peso, costing ANSeS a totally unnecessary US$6 million each year.
26.     Twenty agencies were surveyed. The confusing procedures and lack of information
are reflected in the length of time taken for grantings and payments. For example,
Payment of Ordinary Pension:     average 14 days, maximum 302
Pension due to death of kin:     average 6 days, maximum 90
Invalidity pension:              average 20 days, maximum 302.
27.     These numbers reflect several visits by clients to the agencies. Each visit takes on
average 5.5 hours, and is very uncomfortable as there are only seats for 25 percent of the
(mostly elderly) clients. Moreover, agencies are very crowded, with an average of one client
for every square meter.
28.     To put these numbers into perspective, in Australia (admittedly a well-run social
security administration), 80% of all invalidity pensions are paid vvithin 2 days, 95% of all
clients are seen by an agent within 20 minutes (even if without an appointment) or 10 minutes
(if with an appointment).
29.     There were many more findings of this nature by the diagnostics team.



7
ANSeS Reform Strategy
30.     The current senior ANSeS management has begun its mandate intent upon
establishing its credibility and that of ANSeS through a number of targeted early activities
aimed at achieving quick. tangible and, more important, visible successes. In addition to
establishing its credibility, they have also sought to create a positive momentum for change
which would allow it, among other things, to attract badly needed senior management and
technical talent.
31.     To this effect, ANSeS has begun the process of establishing a clear vision for the
organization and establishing effective lines of authority and accountability, with the assistance
of a consulting firm. Steps were taken to identify key staff who can be counted on to change
the culture of the organization and to define the new processes and procedures necessary to
reengineer the entire operation. Efforts are underway to restructure ANSeS, review the
accounting and management information system (carried out following Bank procedures, with
a view to retroactive financing), and strengthen internal auditing, as well as to detect and
correct defective procedures and processes and to establish security and program safeguards.
32.     The reform is being implemented in two phases. The first or "Emergency" phase was
aimed at achieving the necessary level of control over the institution by end-1996. The second
is the more in-depth "Transformation" phase, which the proposed project supports.
33.     Early activities included:
3 Carrying out the in-depth diagnostic of ANSeS referred to above, to identify major
problems and areas of mismanagement and corruption.
* Defining the mission of ANSeS, by identifying ANSeS' present and future clients,
defining the products and services which ANSeS will provide, and determining the
level of service to be provided.
* Assuming the direction of the entity, including the need to: (i) define responsibilities
for managers and external advisors; (ii) emphasize internal auditing; (iii) strengthen
the legal area; and (iv) develop basic managemeni: and control tools.
* Identifying and recruiting new managers, both within and outside the organization.
• Defining and implementing an internal communications campaign, which included
the definition and implementation of a new ANSeS logo and colors.
* Taking over the computer center. This area in particular was identified as the major
center of corruption within ANSeS. Given the ease with which sabotage in this area
would cause ANSeS to immediately stop processing pensions, and the uproar that
this would cause, there was need for a carefully designed and executed, and secret
operation. The design of the operation and the infiltration of the computer center



8
took several months and required the help of an international consulting firm. At
the same time, federal police investigated a number of contracts and suspected
contacts. Eventually, ANSeS staff, accompanied by a large number of police
agents, successfully accomplished the "hostile takeover" of the computer center,
making copies of all archives and systems. Several ex-computer center managers
have been accused of fraud and are being tried.
34.     These activities, carried out during project preparation, will be financed retroactively
from government counterpart funds shortly after project effectiveness. The government has
agreed to deposit an amount sufficient to cover the retroactive financing as well as the first
year's counterpart expenditures within three months after project effectiveness.
Provincial Pension Funds
35.     On August 12, 1993, the National Government agreed to accept the transfer of the
Provincial Pension Funds (PPFs) and absorb them into the National Pension System,
admninistered by the National Social Security Administration (ANSeS).
36.     Preliminary studies show that the PPFs have higher average contributions and
benefits than the national system, as well as lower requirements to obtain these benefits. After
the expected transfer over the next three years of 22 Provinces and one Municipality (Buenos
Aires), the increase in the number of affiliates at the national level would be approximately
600,000 individuals (8 percent), and the increase in payments approximately US$4.2 billion
(27 percent). In addition, administrative errors, fraud and corruption have been determined to
be substantially higher than in the national system. For example, pensions for invalidity
comprise in some cases about 20 percent of all pensions. A normal rate would be closer to 4
percent. A first review of benefit amounts shows a considerable proportion of unexplained
increases (e.g., one case in which the amount went from US$160 to US$2000).
37.     The transfer of these systems must therefore be cairried out carefully and
progressively, simplifying processes and cleaning up files. To this effect, a special Transfer Unit
has been created within ANSeS, with a mandate to carry out: and manage all activities related
to the absorption of the PPFs.
Project Objectives
38.     The objectives of this project are to assist ANSeS in improving its institutional
efficiency and effectiveness along modern management principles in order to: (a) reduce
instances of improper pension payment; (b) improve the quality of its client services; and (c)
absorb the administration of the provincial pension fiinds.
Project Description
39.     Many attempts at institutional strengthening have suffered from a failure to recognize
the severe organizational disfunctions at the base of the institution's weakness. By focusing on



9
a limited number of key areas, or by failing to address managernent and incentive issues, early
successes have failed to ensure sustainability. Recognizing this., the proposed project addresses
the immediate issues of deficit reduction, low quality of client services and the absorption of
the provincial pension funds through three straightforward components. The fourth component
addresses institutional issues, centered around the premise that all the main processes of the
organization must be redesigned completely and concurrently around a shared vision, clearly
enunciated business processes, coherent management structures and appropriately motivated
human resources. In addition, the proposed strengthening is predicated on the notion that
sustainability can only be achieved if the entire culture, structures and premises of the
organization are refocused to its new goals through the systermatic use of change management
and facilitation tools and techniques.
40.     However, the re-inventing of an institution and refocussing of its culture require
long-term, sustained efforts, beyond the scope of this project. Such a change may take
upwards of ten years and sustained political will, and would require detailed long-term
implementation plans which the institution (and most likely no institution in this situation and
context) cannot prepare at present.
41.     Rather than attempting to put together a workplan with extremely flexible terms, this
project limits its scope to a first phase in which efforts are concentrated on putting the house in
order and laying the groundwork for future change.
42.     Clearly the proposed project cannot assure sustainability, but it will substantially
facilitate it. A revised ANSeS, with clear goals and incentives, an interim organizational
structure, cleaner databases and more efficient procedures, with errors eliminated and fraud
under control, trained personnel, and an administration conversant with modern techniques of
management and in change management will permit the full reengineering of its processes
which ANSeS requires, in a second phase of reform.
43.     The project will finance technical assistance, consulting firms and the acquisition of
computer equipment, through four components:
*  Fraud and Error Control
Activities in this component aim to reduce inappropriate disbursements due
to fraud and error by cleaning up existing files, setting up a Fraud Control
Unit, and agreeing on joint evasion programs with the General Tax
Directorate.
Improvement of Client Service Quality
Agencies will be reorganized to provide one-stop, full service "points of
sale", and will be provided with new processes and systems, trained
personnel, and an upgraded infrastructure.
* Provincial Pension Fund Transfer



10
The Provincial Pension Funds of up to 22 provinces will be absorbed into
the national system after a verification of its files and elimination of errors
and fraud.
Institutional Strengthening
Activities in support of an efficient organization will consist of the
introduction of a new organizational structure, management techniques,
incentive system, as well as central monitoring and control and back-office
operations such as maintaining the central database.
44.     Project coordination and administration will to a large extent be the responsibility of
ANSeS management (see attached Resolution by the Ministry of Labor), assisted by two
consultants financed by the project and an external procurement agent.
Component I: Fraud and Error Control
45.     To reduce future errors, ANSeS is engaged in the improvement of its Granting and
Payment processes and systems, to introduce better monitoring and accounting mechanisms. In
the second phase of its reform, these processes and systems will be redesigned to conform to
the new decentralized concepts introduced, as well as making them more transparent, more
effective, and less costly to operate and maintain.
46.     In addition to this on-going review of existing systems, ANSeS needs to carry out
two important activities:
(a)    a review of its beneficiary files (see results of diagnostic, above); and
(b)    creation of a Fraud Control Unit, which with Internal Audit will help
prevent future fraud.
47.     ANSeS needs to review and clean up its beneficiary files, which at present are the
cause of the largest identifiable erroneous disbursements. To this effect, a pilot exercise will
concentrate on one province (about 20,000 cases) and define the methodology for review,
develop the performance criteria for the work and for its control, calculate the cost/benefit cut-
off points, validate the methodologies and carry out the review. Based on the results of this
pilot, upwards of 400,000 files will be reviewed. Some of these files will require personal
verification. The file audits will therefore be followed up by on-site verification. Some 300,000
cases have already been identified as requiring site verification. Draft terms for the file review
have been prepared and can be found in the Project Files.
48.     The review of the files will be done in portions of approximately 100,000 files, not
counting the pilot of 20,000. It is not possible at this time to estimate precisely the cost of
review of each portion, as it depends on the degree of accuracy required, which will vary
according to findings in each portion, the learning curve of the consultants and staff employed
(not necessarily the same group throughout, in particular when dealing with on-site verification
in the provinces and with the review of invalidity claims, which require medical analysis). A



cost-effectiveness analysis would therefore be carried out at the end of each phase, to permnit
fine-tuning of the review methodology.
49.     To prevent the continuation of the prevalent fraudulent practices, a Fraud Control
Unit will be set up, along the lines of the Inspectorate General in the US. Initial activities
include the definition of the unit, its mission, objectives, performance indicators and skill mix
required, among others, and the preparation of prevention, detection and monitoring
mechanisms, including detection algorithms and the use of cross-referencing with other
institutions' databases (e.g., DGI, Civil Register, death certificates, etc.).
Component II: Improvement of Client Service Quality
50.     To improve services, ANSeS is implementing one-stop point-of-sale with its
agencies, offering all the services needed by the customer. To do this ANSeS has to devolve
responsibility for pension grantings, interpretations of the legal framework, and modifications
of customer data to the agencies. This in tum requires a revision of the granting and payment
processes to simplify them and automate them in a decentralized mode, using interconnected
information systems running on a "client-server" architecture, and at the same time introduce
monitoring and control mechanisms at headquarters. This approach follows the "normative and
supervisory centralization, operative decentralization" approach of the Second Reform of the
State and of many modern institutions.
51.     To implement the Full Service Agency (Unidades de Asistencia Integral, UTDAI), a
service strategy will be developed, personnel and managemeni: of the agenciies will be trained,
and the offices refurbished and provided with new computer equipment. These agencies will be
of one of three forms, depending on clientele. The "typical" UDAI will have approximately 60
people; the "minimal" LTDAI will have 5 people (including the manager), and the "mobile"
UJDAI, which will concentrate on people unable to come to the agencies, will consist of a
vehicle, one driver and two staff. Other ways of providing services are being considered, such
as using the telephone and the postal services.
52.     Full services require full and correct information, which in turn will require:
*  Structural reorganization of ANSeS' operations (i.e., revision of granting
and payment processes);
*  Unified guidelines for grantings, awards and modifications of pensions;
*  New definitions of functions and performance indicators at staff and
management level;
*  Introduction of incentive systems rewarding good performance;
*  Training of managers and staff (at headquarters and in agencies);
*  Central monitoring and auditing; and
*  An error-free database, and secure and efficient automated systems
providing access to all the customer's information.



12
53.     The operations of the UDAI will be supported from headquarters by several
Directorates, which will need to be strengthened (see Component IV, Institutional
Strengthening, below): Administration (procurement); Finance (Accounting. Budgeting and
Treasury); Information Systems (all automated systems and telecommunications);
Communications (information dissemination); Human Resources (selection. traning and
planning); Legal (simplification of frameworks and interpretation of difficult cases); and
Internal Audit.
54.     Work has already started on this component; ten UDAIs are in the process of being
constituted, and about 170,000 pending cases have been processed. There is at present no
granting backlog.
55.     Not included in this project is a complementary and necessary infrastructure
development exercise being carried out by ANSeS. Its main objective is to redesign the
location and physical structure of the agencies to make themr of easier access and use by the
client (and staff). In some cases new buildings will have to be rented or built; for example,
when a new clientele is brought into ANSeS (i.e., the Provincial Pension Funds). Other
objectives of this exercise are to establish a new headquarters building (in process), centralize
the archives, and re-evaluate infrastructure requirements and assets. More information on this
activity can be found in the Project Files, including plans for the new UDAIs.
Component mU: Provincial Pension Fund Transfer
56.     Ten provinces have already agreed formally to the transfer (Salta, Tucuman,
Mendoza, San Juan, Santiago del Estero, Catamarca, Rio Negro, Jujuy and La Rioja, plus the
Municipality of Buenos Aires, considered a province). It is expected that almost all the
provinces will eventually agree.
57.     The transfer of these systems must therefore be carried out carefully and
progressively, simplifying processes and cleaning up files. To this effect, a special Transfer Unit
has been created within ANSeS, with a mandate to carry out and manage all activities related
to the absorption of the PPFs.
58.     The absorption of the provincial pension funds will entail a transition process during
which these funds will be processed independently. Before full absorption into the national
system, all provincial pension files will have to be reviewed.
59.     During this process, technical assistance will be provided to assist ANSeS staff to
process payments under different provincial pension rules, as pensions granted before 1995 will
continue to operate under the original provincial rules. After ANSeS' critical pension processes
have been extensively overhauled, the pension files will be merged with the national system's.
Component IV: Institutional Strengthening
60.     The organization, structure and management processes of ANSeS have been
diagnosed as insufficient and ineffective. Furthermore, they are totally incompatible with the



13
emerging vision, which requires introducing private sector management practices, processes
and systems, resulting in an ANSeS which has:
*  A formal and informal organization aligned with ANSeS' objectives.
*  An error-free database, secure and efficient automated systems.
•  Unified guidelines for grantings, awards and modifications of pensions.
* A high level of control and accountability, and delegation of authority and
responsibility.
*  An incentive system designed to reward performance.
* Trained and motivated staff.
* One-stop agencies offering all the services needed by the customer.
61.     Efforts will focus on introducing a culture based on service and accountability, and
on building ANSeS' capacity for analysis, planning, budgeting, process accounting, and
monitoring. The change program will also focus on the management of human resources and
on ways to improve the productivity of ANSeS' workforce. Incentive and motivation systems
will be overhauled, combining performance measurements with financial incentives, and backed
by a comprehensive skills inventory and training program.
62.     Initial activities in this area, to be financed through counterpart funds released to
ANSeS by the Ministry of Economy towards the beginning of' 1997, consist of the initial
diagnostic and proposals for the revision of critical processes and file verification, as well as
the design of the Full Service Agencies. Most importantly, the vision of ANSeS was defined,
and the value analysis of all activities has already begun.
63.     Changes in senior management have been a common source of disruption in technical
assistance projects. To help prevent this, a Steering Committee has been constituted. This
Committee, chaired by the Secretary of Social Security and composed of specialists in
management and social security, will review and approve the semi-annual progress reports and
workplans presented by the National Director, providing continuity in the case of a change in
senior management and thereby further reducing the chance of possible disruption in project
implementation.
64.     Management of change, especially a comprehensive organizational and cultural
change as envisaged for ANSeS, requires special skills in management not usually found in
institutions in either the public or the private sector. As mentioned before, an effort is being
made to attract managers to lead the ANSeS reform process. These managers will receive
training in modern management techniques as well as that subset of management known as
change management.
65.     A network of change facilitation teams, workgroups and committees is being
established to promote participation and insure that the full range of activities required to
manage change is undertaken in a systematic and timely fashion.



14
66.     Senior management also seeks to increase its internal credibility and achieve
employee commitment through a sustained communication effort and through the introduction
of significant changes such as performance pay and accountability regimes. The
communications process has already begun, with a new internal communications policy, an
institutional magazine, and documentation and presentations to staff on the reforn objectives
and strategy.
67.     An important part of the institutional strengthening will be the introduction of inter-
institutional contracts between ANSeS units, both for goal-setting and performance evaluation
and for the hiring of services from internal and external providers. Training is a prime example
of the hiring of services. While some very specialized training may be offered within the
organization, it is expected that most of the training will be competitively bid in the private
sector. Another example is informatics, in which both hardware and software is likely to be
provided by third parties.
68.     The Finance and Administrative sub-directorate has deteriorated perhaps more than
other areas of ANSeS; little financial management information is available for decision-making.
Efforts will be made to strengthen this area through a review of procedures, development of
management information systems, and training. In particular, the following activities would be
carried out:
* Design and implementation of a Management Information System
* Revision of the budget system
- Renegotiation of all service contracts
-- Revision of the accounting system
- Revision of the procurement system
* Recreation of the Human Resources Database.
69.     The work to be done in inforrnatics is very large, basically a realignment of the
Informatics Directorate towards a service orientation. The quality of its in-house informatics
resources and its outsourcing capabilities would be improved. A user requirement identification
and a client/user integrated planning capacity would be created, as well as the planning and
implementation of a world class multi-tier network which will require the re-development of
all major systems and the introduction of modern telecommunications.
70.     Activities in this area will take place in three phases:
*  Short-term activities aimed at ensuring that current operations are maintained at
their present level and that short-term actions such as backlogs and cleanups are
resolved.
*  Intermediate activities intended to maximize the usefulness of current informatics
resources while the long-term strategy is being developed, and
*  A long-term strategy, which will be based on detailed client and business process
requirements, using appropriate technological solutions. This strategy will develop
operational, administrative and management information systems aimed at



15
processing and delivering the information required, on time, within specifications, in
the appropriate formats and in the most user-friendly environment. In addition, a
migration plan will be implemented to take all data in its intermediate form to the
final Consolidated Database version.
71.     Most of this very large effort is already being carried out by ANSeS. The proposed
project would help the develop new informatics policies, reengineer the Informatics
Directorate, and provide training and procurement assistance.
72.     The satisfactory development of human resources in ANSeS has been hindered by the
lack of flexibility in current legislation, and by the application of outmoded management
principles emphasizing form over function. The absence of rewards or sanctions for
performance and the lack of targeted training are only two of the conditions which have led
ANSeS to its present situation of lack of managerial and staff accountability, demoralization
and low skill levels.
73.     It is therefore necessary to:
3  Define a new Incentive Policy for management and staff, based on
performance
*  Obtain a more flexible labor agreement;
*  Define a new policy for the selection and promotion of personnel;
*  Define a new policy for the identification of training needs, provision of
training and measurement of results;
* Define internal search criteria and prepare a search plan;
* Carry out a skills inventory;
*  Prepare and implement a Training Plan; and
*  Develop a Human Resource Information System.
74.     In addition, senior management is planning the introduction of carefully targeted
training aimed at enhancing staff capacity in critical processes
Project Administration
75.     The project will be coordinated by ANSeS' management. To assist them in the
administration of activities financed by the Bank, an administrative unit has been established, in
charge of procurement and accounting, and of ensuring that EBank procedures are followed. An
experienced administrator (five years of direct experience with the Bank, IDB, UJNDP and the
UN Office for Project Services - UN/OPS) has been identified and hired part-time by ANSeS.
After effectiveness the administrator, as well as an experienced accountant (not yet identified.
but the same profile is required), will be financed by the Bankc. ANSeS line staff will comprise
the remainder of the unit.
76.     A project accounting and monitoring system is already in place (transferred from
another Bank project), the Bank would finance its upgrade to set it in line with the latest Bank



16
requirements for monitonrng, accounting and auditing. An outline progress report has been
agreed (in draft Terms of Reference for project auditing in the 1project files).
77.     Thus, by financing a small number of experienced staff (two) and putting in place a
monitoring and accounting system, project administration costs would be minimized. By using
line staff for the remainder of the unit, institutionalization of project administration skills is
facilitated.
Other Expenses: External Administration
78.     ANSeS is considering entering into an external administration agreement with a UN
organization. This type of agreement is frequent in Argentina because:
*  Under the existing law, only staff of Secretary of State rank can contract in the
name of the State; all others must do so personally. This exposes the great majority
of National Directors and Project Coordinators to being sued, which, given the
amount of litigation in Argentina, is common. As a consequence, most National
Directors and Project Coordinators are loath to assume this responsibility.
-  It also permits the government to eliminate paying value-added taxes as counterpart
for consultants and goods. On this argument alone, such an agreement, which costs
3-5 percent of the total project, is worth considering, as the value-added tax stands
today at 21 percent.
79.     The Bank would finance this agreement.
80.     Project audits would be financed by ANSeS. Draft Terms of Reference for project
auditing can be found in the project files.



17
SECTION B:
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Agencies Involved
1.    The National Social Secunrtv Administration (ANSeS) will be the executing agency for
this project, and will be responsible for providing counterpart ftnds. The Executive Director of
ANSeS will be project's National Director. The Ministry of Economy will provide US$20 million
for counterpart financing. The first installment, of US$ 10 million, will cover preparatory activities
already carried out and counterpart expenditures for the first year of implementation. Further
installments of US$4 million, US$4 million and US$2 rnillion will be made before the end of the
first, second and third years of implementation, respectively.
Project Execution
2.    The proposed project would be completed in four years The completion date is December
31, 2000, and the Closing Date is June 30, 2001. The National Director will be responsible for
project execution as planned, within time and budget, and with ensuring compliance with all Loan
Agreements. Bank requirements for accounting, administration and procurement procedures will
be the responsibility of the Project Administration Unit (see below).
Procurement
3.    Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January and August
1996). The bulk of the procurement of goods consists of computer equipment and software for an
estimated USS3.4 million equivalent which will be acquired in packages of not less than USS 350,000
equivalent each by International Competitive Bidding (1CB). No National Competitive Bidding is
contemplated. Miscellaneous computer equipment and software and office and photocopying
equipment required for project implementation and administration, will be acquired by National
Shopping by price comparisons of at least three quotations, in packages valued at less than
USS50,000, up to an aggregate of US$500,000 over the life of the project.
4.    Consulting services will be contracted in accordance with the Guidelinesfor the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August
1981). Out of the total loan amount. USS16.2 million is allocated for consulting services. To the
extent possible, the Borrower would employ consulting firms in preference to individual
consultants for the provision of consulting services to the Project. Individual consultants would be
financed out of the loan only with the prior written approval of the Bank on a case-by-case basis.
5.    Standard contracts, based on the Bank-issued Standard Form of Contracts, and procurement
documentation, based on Bank Standard Bidding Documents, modified as necessary for the purposes
of the project, were agreed with the Government (and the procurement agency where appropriate)
during Negotiations. Agreement was also obtained on formats for the technical specifications in the
case of goods; terms of reference (including objectives, activities, results, performance indicators, and
estimated breakdown of costs) and the use of the Bank's standard Letter of Invitation, for consulting
services.



18
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC INVESTMENT STRENGTHENING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                                   Total
Project Element                                    ICB         NCB                      Other      N.B.F.       Cost
1.   Goods
Computer Equipment and                         4.76                                  0.50                     5.26
peripherals                                   (3.36)                                 (0.50) a/               (3.S6)
2.    Consulting Services b/                                                              34.74                    34.74
(16.14)                  (16.14)
Total                                          4.76                                 35.24                    40.00
(3.36)                              (16.64)                  (20.00)
Note: Numbers in parentheses are the amounts bnanced by ffie Bank
N.B.F.: Not Bank Financed
aI National Shopping
bi Senvnes to be pTocured in accordance with Wortd Bank Gudemes: 'Use ofConsultants by Wodd Bank Borowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981)
Implementation Schedule
Estimated Annual Contracts and Other Payments
(USS thousands equivalent)
Total        Remarks
Bank FY                                        FY97          FY98        FY99        FY00      FY01        Payment
Goods
Computer Equipment and                                   2,050       1,985        730                     4,765      ICB
Peripherals                                               (900)     (2,135)       (330)                  (3,365)
154           141          95         70         40           500      Shop.
(154)         (141)        (95)        (70)       (40)         (500)
Consultancies                                 8,866         8,221       9,228       6,360      2,060        34,735      Olher
(2,196)       (3,979)     (6,339)    (2,820)      (800)      (16,135)
Totals      9,020        10,412      11,308      7,160      2,100        40,000
(2,350)       (5,020)     (8,569)    (3,220)      (840)      (20,000)
Note: Numbers in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Hank



19
Bank Prior Review
6.    Prior review by the Bank will be exercised for:
* All goods procured through ICB and consultant contracts under US$100,000
equivalent (in the case of consulting firms) and uncder US$50,000 (in the case of
individual consultants); however, in all cases the Bank would exercise review of terms
of reference for individual consultants or firms.
7.    All contracts would be subject to post-review sampling during supervision missions.
Current arrangements assure that the substantive aspects of 90 percent of contracts will be
reviewed ex-ante by the Bank.
Disbursements and Special Account
8.    The Borrower's financial administration regulations have been reviewed in the context of
previous projects and have been found acceptable for use with a Special Account.
9.    Disbursements of the Bank loan would be made against 100 percent' of all activities
identified for Bank financing, exclusive of taxes. The Government is considering entering into an
agreement with a UN agency for the administration of the project and procurement of goods, following
procedures acceptable to the Bank, for an aggregate amount of US$16 million. The remainder, US$4
million, would be disbursed using a Special Account in US dollars, with an authorized allocation of
US$250,000 equivalent, for an estimated four months of average disbursements.
10.   The Special Account would be established in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank.
The National Social Security Administration would be entitled to make periodic withdrawals from
the Special Account for eligible expenditures upon request from the National Project Director at
the exchange rate applicable on the day such account is debited. The Bank would replenish the
Special Account for the amount of withdrawals for eligible expenditures at the request of the
Borrower.
11.   Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statemenits of Expenditure (SOE) for goods
contracts procured as allowed under national shopping procedures, as well as consultants'
contracts not subject to prior review. The documentation for these expenditures would be
consolidated and maintained by the Project Administration Unit (PAU), and made available for
the required audit as well as to Bank staff during supervision missions. All other expenditures
would also be fully documented, and copies of contracts woulcl be sent to the Bank. Applications
for direct payment and special commitments may be submitted to the Bank provided they are for
amounts equivalent to at least 20 percent of the Authorized Allocation of the Special Account.
Agreement on the use of the Special Account and Statements of Expenditure were obtained at
negotiations.
Accounting and Audits
12.   The Project Administration Unit will upgrade their exislting project accounting and
performance monitoring system. The formats of the reports produced were agreed during
Only if procured through a tax-exempt procurement agency; otherwise disbursements will be made against 82 percent of the
cost of these activities, to take into account the current Argentine VAT of2l percent



20
Negotiations. The accounting system will facilitate the monitoring of the project's financial
information to ensure that all project expenditures and commitments are consistent with the -
project's agreed allocations, including their expenditure categories. The accounting system will
provide information to the government on the project's financial progress.
13.   Annual Audits of the project accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs, will be
perforrned in accordance with appropriate auditing principles applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank (draft terms of reference for auditors can be found in the project files).
The auditors will: (a) audit the Special Account, SOEs and summary sheets; (b) audit
procurement procedures to report on their compliance with no-objections and Bank procedures
and guidelines; (c) apply auditing standards and procedures satisfactory to the Bank which
conform to generally accepted auditing practices; (d) carry out their auditing work in a timely
manner - an audit report will be presented to the Bank no later than April 30, four months after
the end of the fiscal year; and (e) render an audit opinion or provide reasons why such an opinion
cannot be rendered.
Project Administration
14.   The Project Administration Unit (PAU) will be headed by a project administrator, and
composed of a senior and a junior accountant, a senior and a junior procurement specialist, two
admninistrative assistants and a junior assistant. The project administrator and senior accountant
will be financed by the project, and should have over three years' substantive experience with
Bank procedures and external administration agency procedures. The remaining staff will be
selected from counterpart personnel, and given formal and on-the-job training.
15.   The PAU will report to the Project General Coordinator. Its responsibilities will be to:
* monitor the execution and evaluation of project activities,
* monitor the availability of funds from all financing sources,
* manage and keep records of all procurement operations, ensuring compliance with
Bank guidelines,
* monitor compliance with legal covenants,
* maintain records for all activities,
* manage contracting of technical assistance and consulting services under the project
* prepare the semi-annual progress reports and ensure their submission to the Bank on
time,
* ensure the timely preparation of the annual audit reports (including SOEs and
accounts), and
* prepare relevant portions of the Implementation Completion Report at the close of the
project.
Project Monitoring
16.   The National Director through the project administrator will be responsible for monitoring
project implementation activities as described in the Project Implementation Plan. Annual Action
Plans will be prepared, describing in detail the activities, personnel responsible for their execution,
how the performance of the various activities will be measured and by whom, and other
information necessary for the execution of the project.



21
The National Director will formally present a Semi-Annual Progress Report to a Steering
Committee, chaired by the Secretary of Social Security in the Ministry of Labor. This report will
provide financial and procurement information on project execution as well as performance
indicators to date (input, output, outcome and impact) as described in the last Annual Action
Plan. The Steering Committee will review and approve the Progress Report, including proposed
new Annual Action Plans. These plans will be agreed with the Bank during project supervision in
September of each year. Agreement on the outline of the semi-annual progress report was
obtained during Negotiations.
Steering Committee
(Chair: Secretary of Social Security)
Project National Director
(Chief Executive, ANSeS)
| Project General Coordinator
*            (General Manager, ANSeS)
Project
Implementation  ,
Unit                                    Project Administration Unit
*                        r~~~~~~~~~~~PA U )J
i            Project Subcoordinators
(Various Managers, ANSeS)      -
17.   A Mid-Term Review will be carried out jointly by the B3ank and ANSeS during the March
1999 supervision mission, to measure project progress and impact and agree on activities for the
remainder of the project. This review would also serve as an opportunity to assess the need and
feasibility for a potential follow-up technical assistance loan. This condition was agreed at
Negotiations. The Mid-term review will provide a formal opportunity for the Bank to assess
covenant compliance by the Borrower and ANSeS with regard to the Project, an opportunity
which the Bank nevertheless will have at all other times as well pursuant to the General
Conditions incorporated in the Loan Agreement for this Project.
18.   An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be submitted to the Bank after project
completion and no later than six months after the Loan Closing Date. Included in the ICR will be
an assessment of the execution of the project, costs and benefits derived, the performance of the
Borrower, the World Bank and other agencies involved in their respective obligations and
accomplishments, and lessons learned.



22
Project Costs by Year
(US$)
Component                                 _                          Y e a r                            I  Total
Financiers                             1996/1997      1998         1999         2000        2001
1: Fraud and Error Control
World Bank                                 340.000    1,750,000     230.000            0           0    2,320,000
Government of Anxenina                     505,0001     575,000    2,025,000|   1,000,000          0    4,105.000
Sub-Tot      845,0001    2,325,000    2,255,0001    1,000,000        0    6,425,000
11: Improvement of Client Service Quality
World Bank                                 900,000    1,000,000     500,000      330,000           0    2,730,000
Government of Argentina                    596,000      589,000     376,000      356,000           0    1.917,000
Sub-Tot    1,496,000    1,589,000     876,000      686,000           0    4,647,000
III: Provincial Pension Fund Transfers
World Bank                                 765,000    1,400,000    2,180.000    1,380,000          0    5,725.000
Government of Argentina                    280,000      80,000      230.000       80,000           0      670,000
Sub-Tot    1,045,000    1,480,000    2,410,000    1,460,0001         0    6,395,000
IV: Institutional Strenghening
World Bank                                1.280,000    2.920,000    1.845,000    900,0001          0    6,945,000
Government of ArgeDtina                  8,233.0001   2.640,000    1.410,0001    470,0001          0   12.753.000
Sub- Tot    9,513,0001   5,560,000    3,255,0001    1,370,0001       0   19,698,000
V: Project Administration Unit
World Bank                                 331,950     219,350      173,350      155,350           0      880,000
Government of Argentina                    113,750      113.750     113,750      113,750           0      455,000
Sub-Tot      445,700     333,100      287,100      269,100           0    1,335,000
VI: External Administration
World Bank                                 350,000     350,000      350,000      350,000           0    1.400,000
Government of Argentina                     25.000      25,000       25,000       25.000           0       i00,000
Sub-Tot      37S,000     375,000      375,000      375,000           0    1,500,000
r            _0                                  _ _A L
Total                         I           2      i     3            4                      Total
World Bank                   3,966,950    7,639,350    5.278,3501   3,115,3501         01  20,000.000
Government of Argentina            9,752.750    4.022,750    4.179.750    2.044,750          0   20.000.000
rO rA L) i 02-l3~~~§1...!!,                                         Of>-t-.1 i.
E INAN CIERS                                I otal                 Percent
World Bank                               20,000,000                    50.0%
Government of Argentina                        20,000,000                   50.0%
Grand lotal                            40,000,000                  100.0%



Project Implementation Plan and Costs (US$)
1: FRAUD AND ERROR CONTROL
sltMender Year                                               Total      1996/1997       199           1999         2000       Fr        LocJ Cat    Proc
FRAUD AND ERROR CONTROL
1.1 Audit of Beneficiary Fles: JnvaUdity, deatb, errors, fraud
1.1.1  efinitaon of methodology for review                 60,000        60,000                                           G      L      F       0
I 1 2  D)cvelopncnt of performance cTitcria fIr work        30,000        30,000                                           G      1     F       Ct
11 3  Calculation of cosL,benefit cut-off points             10,000       10,000                                           G      L      F       0
1.1.4  Validation of proposed methodologies                  50,000       50,000                                           G      L      F       0
1.1.5  Reviewof20,000 files                                 180,000      180,000                                           0      L      F       0
1.1.6  Redefinition of methodology for review                40,000                    40,000                              W      L      F       0
1.1.7  Development of new performance criteria for work      20,000                    20,000                              W      L      F       0
1.1.8  Calculation of new cost/benefit cut-off points        10,000                    10,000                              W      L      F       0
1.1.9  Validation of proposed methodologies                 30,000                     30,000                              W      L      F       0
1.1.10 Review of 100,000 files                             800,000                    800,000                              W      L      F       0
I.1.11 Redefinition of methodology for review                40,000                    40,000                              W      L      F       0
11.12 Development of new performance criteia for work       20,000                    20,000                              W      L      F       0
1.1.13 Calculationofnewcostibenefitcut-offpoirns             10,000                    10,000                              W      L      F       0
1.1.14 Validation of proposed methodologies                 30,000                     30,000                              W      L      F       0
1.1.15 Review of 100,000 files                             700,000                    400,000       300,000                G      1.     F       0
1.1.16 Redefinition of methodology for review               40,000                                   40,000                W      L      F       0
1.1.17 Development of new perfornance crieria for work       20,000                                  20,000                W      L      F       0
1.1.18 Calculation of new cost/benefit cut-off points        10,000                                  10,000                W      1      F       0
i. i i9 Vaiidation of proposed methodoiogies                 30,000                                  30,000                w      L      F       O
1.1.20 Review of  00.000 files                              7000                                    700,000                G      L      F       0
1.1.21  Redefinition of methodology for review               40,000                                  40,000                W      L      F       0
1.1.22 Developmenl of new performance criteria for work      20,000                                  20,000                W      L      F       0
1.1.23 Calculation of new costvbenefit cut-offpoints         10,000                                  10.000                W      1.     F       O
1 1 24 Validation of proposedetritlodologies                 30,000                                  30,000                W      1.     F       O
1.11   *'-~"00 le                                          600,000                                  300,000      300,000   G      1        
1.1.26 Redefinition of methodology for review                40,000                                               40,000   G      L      F       O
1.1.27 Development of new performance criteria for work      20,000                                               20,000   G      L      F       O
1.1.28 Calculation of new cost/benefit cut-offpoints         10,000                                               10,000   G      L      F       O
1.1.29 Validation of proposed methodologies                 30,000                                                30,000   G      L      F       O
1.1.30 Review of I00,000 files                             600000                                                600,000   G      L      F       O
G 0      1.     F       O



Project Implementation Plan and Costs (US$)
1: FRAUD AND ERROR CONTROL
{Calendar Year                                                     Tota        1996/1997        1998          1999          2000       Ful   Loc   Cat    Proc
I~ _ _ _ _ _   _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _   _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _   _    _    _    __                   -J ;.  Fm   J J _   _
1.2 Follow-up of audit shrough Census                                    0
12.1  Definition of methodology for review                      50,000         50,000                                              W             F
12 2  D)cvelopincrnt of performance nritena for v~ork           30,000        30,000                                              W       1.     F        ll
12 3  Calculation of cost/benefit cut-off points                20,000        20,000                                              W       L      F        0
1.2.4  Validation of proposed methodologies                     40,000        40,000                                              W       L      F        0
1.2.5  Review of 10,000 cases                                  150,000        150,000                                             W       1.     F        0
1.2.6  Redefinition of methodology for review                   40,000                       40,000                               W       L      F        (J
1.2.7  Development of new performance criteria for work         20,000                       20,000                               W       L      F        0
1.2.8  Calculationofnewcost/benefitcut-offpoints                10,000                       10,000                               W       L      F        0
12 9  Validation of proposed methodologies                      30,000                       30,000                               W       L      F        0
12.10 Review of 100,000 cases                                  600,000                      600,000                               W       1.     F        0
1i2.1 s Redciinition of methodology for review                  40,000                                     40,000                  G      L      F        O
1.2.12 Development of new performnance criteria fbr work        20,000                                     20,000                  C      L      F        0
1.2.13 Calculation of new cost/benefit cut-off points           10,000                                     10,000                  G      L      F        O
1.2.14 Validation of proposed methodologies                     30lO00                                     30,000                  G      L      F 
1.2.15 Review of O00,000 cases                                 470,000                                    470,000                  G      L      F
1.3 Fraud Control llnit                                                  0                                                             G      l.      F       O
1115Ai TA: Inspeclorate F1unction                              130,000         50,000        50,000        30,000                  W      F      C        O
111,5 2 Settn-g Lp of Urit                                           O                                                             G      L      S        N    |
111.53 Staffing                                                      0                                                             G      L      S        N
1115.4 Design of methodology and of control systems            225,000         75,000        75,000        75,000                  G      L      F        O
III 55 Iilot Projects                                          280,000        100.000       100,000        80,000                  (      L      F        O
Total                                                  6,425,000       845,000      2,325,000     2,255,000     1,000,00i      L
Fin:     World E3ank (W; Goveinent of Argentina (G).
Lo3.krn:  Local (1) or Forcign (F) Expenditurcs
Cat:     Goods (G); Consultancics: Long-Tm  Individual (l); Shonl-cernn, Individual (C); Firm (F); Proj. Adnmin. (P); Countcpart Staff (S); Office Refurbishing (N).
Prec:    ICB (1), NCB (U); Othcr (0); Shopping (S); Non-O3ni Financed (N).



Project Implementation Plan and Costs (US$)
n: IMPROVEMENT OF CLIENT SERVICE QUALITY
alendar Year                                                     Total       1996/1997       1998          1999         2000    1 Fin 1 Ioc | Cat 1 Proe
1: INIPROVEMIENT OF CLIENT SERVICE QUALITY
11.1 Implementation of the Full Sentice Agency
I1.1  tInital Activities                                         80,000        80,000                                           0    L      1   0
11.112  Internal communication                                  320,000        S0,000       80,000        80,000        80,000  0    L      I    0
11 1.3  Mianagement of Process                                  384,000        96,000       96,000        96,000        96,000  G    L      I    0
11.1.4  First 10 agencies
Equipment acquisition & installation                      450,000      450,000                                           W     F    G      I
1'raining                                                 150,000      150.000                                           0    L    F    0
11.1,5  Selection of agencies, review of requirements             20,000       20,000                                           G     L    F    0
1.1.16  Second Phase: 30 agencies
Equipment acquisition & installation                    1,000,000      450,000       550,000                             W     F    G      I
Training                                                  370,000      170,000       200,000                             G     L    F    0
11.1.7  Selection of agencies, review of requirements             43,000                    43,000                              G    L    F    0
11. 1. Third Phase: 50 agencies
Equipment acquisition & installation                    1,280,000                    450,000      500,000       330.000  W     F    G    I                LA
Training                                                  550,000                    170,000      200,000       I80,000  (    L    F    0
Base Costs                                              4,647,000     1,496,000    1,589,000      876,000       686,000
Price Contingenies                                             0             0            0             0             0        P
Total                                                   4,647,000     1,496,000    1,589,000      876,000       686,000
Fin:    World Bank (W); Government of Argentina (G).
Loc/Frn:  Local (L) or Foreign (F) Expendituics
Cat:    Goods (G), Consultancies: Long-Term, Individual (1); Shott-Tcnn, Individual (C); Firm (F); Proj. Admin. (P); Countepart Staff(S); Office Refiarbishing (N).
Proc:   ICB (1), NCB (B); Other (0); Shopping (S); Non-Bank Financed (N).



Project Implementation Plan and Costs (USS)
II: PROVINCIAL PENSION FUND TRANSFERS
sakudar Year                                                         Total        1996/1997       1993          1999         2000       Fin  Loc  Ca   Proc
Fm
II: PROVINCIAL PENSION FUND TRANSFERS
111.1 First Phase
111.11  Initial Aetivities                                          200,000       200,000                                            G    L    I    0
111 1.2  NlanagementofProcess                                       320,000        80,000        80,000        80,000        80,000  U    L    I    0
111.1.3  FirstReviewofCases                                        1,115,000      615,000       500,000                              W    L    F    0
111.2 Second Phase
111.2.1  Redefinitionofmethodologyforreview                          50,000        50,000                                            W    L    F    0
111.2 2  Validationofproposedmethodologies                          100,000       100,000                                            W    L    F    0
111.2.3  Review of Cases                                           1,400,000                    700,000       700,000                W    L    F    0
1113 Third Phase
111.3.1  Reddinitionofmethodology forreview                          50,000                      50,000                              W    L    F    (7)
111.3.2  Validationofproposedmethodologies                          100,000                     100,000                              W    L    F    0                a%
111.3.3  ReviewofCases, Phasc il                                   1,300,000                                  700,000      600,000  W    1.    F    0
111.4 Fourth Phase
IV.3. I Rcdefinition of methodology for review                       50,000                                    50,000                0    L    F    0
IV.3.2  Validationofproposednmethodologies                          100,000                                   100,000                0    L    F    0
IV.3.3  Review of Cases, Phase il                                  1,000,000                                  500,000       500,000  W    L    F    0
111.5 Preparation for Transition
111.4.1  Develop a Data Migration Plan                               50,000                      50.000                              W    1.   F    0
1114 2  Pilot the Data Nigration Plan                               100,000                                   100.000                W    L    F    O
1114 3  Mligration to Final Integrated System                       460,000                                   180,000       280.00   W    1.   F    0
T.otal                                                     6,395,000     1,04S,000     1,480,000     2,410,000     1,460,000
Fin:     World Bank (W); Govnmment of Argentina (G).
Loc/Frn;  Local (L) or Foreign (F) Expenditures
Cat:    Goods (G); Consultancies: Long-Term, Individual (1); Short-Tcnn, Individual (C); Frnn (F); Proj. Admin. (P); Counterpan Staff (S); Office Refurbishing (N).
Proc:    ICB (1); NCB (B); Other (0); Shopping (S); Non-Bank Financed (N).



Project Implementation Plan and Costs (US$)
IV: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
alendar Year                                                         Total       1996/1997       1993          1999         2000        |  ioc|Cat1Proc
IV: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
IV.I Iirtial Acthities: Organization
IV 1.1  DesignofRcforfn Progran                                     989,000       989,000                                            G     1,    F    0
IV.I12   Redesign of Critical Processes                             842,000       842,000                                            0     L     F    0
IV. 1.3  File Audit Management                                      320,000       320,000                                            G     L     F    0
IV.1.4  Revision ofStructure                                        115,000       115,000                                            G     L     F    0
IV. 1 .5  Redesign of Full Service Agencies                         325,000       325,000                                            0     1.    F    0
IV.1.6  Mlanagement Recruitmnent Program                                  0                                                          G     1.    F    0
IV.2 Organkation: Second Stage
IV.2. 1  Valuc Analysis of Activities                               776,000       776,000                                            G     1.    F    0
IV 2 2   Structuring of Transitory Organization                                        0                                             G     L     S    N
IV.2.3  Introduction of perforTnance/acounbility pirocedures       150,000       100,000       50,000                              W      F    C    0
IV.2A4  Conformation of the Change Teamn                                                0            0             0                 G     L     S    N
IV.2.5  Seminars on Management and the hodern Enterprise            130,000        60,000       70,000                              W      F    C    0
IV.2.6  Communications Strategy and Implementation                  240,000                     60,000       180,000                 G     L     F    0
IV.2.7  TA: Organization Specialist                                 150,000        50,000       50,000        50,000                w      F    C    0
IV-2.8   Management Informnation System                             290,000        50,000      120,000       120,000                W      L     F    0
IV.2.9  Strengthening of Internal Auditing                          180,000                     60,000       120,000                W      L     F    0
IV.3 ED? Initlal Activities:
IV.3.1  Dcsi@ofDP Reform                                            7?76,0 00   776,000                      L F G
IV 3.2  Infornation Systems Plan                                     80,000        80,000                                            0     L     F    0
IV.3.3   Disaster Contingency Plans                                1,600,000    1,200,000      400,000                               Ci    L     F    0
IV.3.4  EDP Center Takeover                                         400,000       400,000                                            G     L     F    O
iVA4 EDP: Intermnediate Stage
IV.4. I  Definition of the Interim Org. and Mgt, Fmnwork             50,000                     50,000                               G     L     F    O
IV.4.2   Reengineering of Critical Processes                       1.050t000                   350-000       350,000       3SOQ00   w      L     F    O
IV.4.3  Redevelopment of Critical Process Systems                  1,090,000                   400,000       400,000       290,000  W      L     F    0
IV 4.4   Development of ncw applications                            800,000       400,000      200,000       200,000                 G     L     F    O
IV.4.5  Constitution of the Consolidated Database                   350,000                                  150.000       200,000  W      1     F    (
IV 46   hitroduction of service orientation & training              180,000        60,000       60,000        60,000                0      I.    F    1)
IV 4 7   TA: Inlbrmaticl Spciali!st                                 100,000        50,000       50,000                              W      F    C    () 



Project Implementation Plan and Costs (USS)
IV: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
alendar Year                                                         Totai       199611997       1998          1999         2000       Fin  Loc
IVA4 8   Definition of broad Systems Archilecture                   150,000        50,000       50,000        50,000                G      F     F    0
IV4 9   PreparationofthelongTerm Reforn Program                    300,000                    100.000       200,000                (i    I      F    tt
IV410  Computer and'ldeclomuiunic4tlionsEquipment                 1,400,000      400,000      800,000       200,000               (G    1:    G       I
IV.4.11 hiiscellaneous Peripherals and Supplies                     270,000        70,000       70,000        70,000        60,000  W      L    G      S
IV.5 lIumrn Resources Mianagement
IV.5. 1  Human resources mgt framework & policy                     300,000       200,000      100,000                              w      F     F    O
IV 5 2   IIR information systemn                                    50,00         300,000      200,000                              W      L     F    0
IV.5 3   Training policy & pracices                                 200,000       100,000      100,000                              W      F     F    0
IV.5.4  Skills survey and evaluation                                400,000       200,000      200,000                              G      L     F    0
IV.5.5   HRD planning, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms         300,000       100,000      100,000       100,000                W      F     F    0
IV.5.6  Procurement of training services (Management)               650,000       450,000      200,000                              G      L     F    0
IV.5.7  Procurement of training services (Staff)                  2,000,000       200,000      400,000       400,000       400,00   G      L     F    0
IV.5.8   Definition and implementation of lnceniive System          500,000                    300,000       200,000                W      F     F    0            l
IV.5 9   Review of l,abor Agreemcnt                                       0                                                         G      1    S    N             Oo
IV.6 FInance and adnlnistratlon
IV.7 I  Financial Management information system                     500,000       200,000      300,000                              W      1.    F    0
1V 7 2   Review of Procurement practices and proecdures             250,000                    150,000       100,000                W      F     F    O
IV.73   Installation of Local AreaNetwork                           635,000                    450,000       185,000                W      F    G      I
iV.7.4   Review of service contracts                                150,000        50,000       50,000        50,000                 G     L    C    0
IV.7.5  Introdudtion of cost centers                                210,000                     70.000        70,000        70.000   G     L     F    0
Total                                                    19,698,000     9,513,000     5,560,000    3,255,000     1,370,000
Fin:     World Bank (W); Govemnnent of Argentina (G).
Loc/Frn: Local (L) or Foreign (F) Expenditures
Cat:    Goods (G); Consultancies: Long-Tenr, Individual (I); Short-Tenm Individual (C); Firn (F); Proj. Admin. (P); Counterpart Staff (S); Office Refutbishik g
Proc:   ICB (1); NCB (B); Other (0); Shopping (S); Non-Bank Finanecd (N).



Project Implementation Plan and Costs (USS)
V: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION UNIT
1Cnkendar Year                                                  Total         1996/1997        1998           1999          2000          2001         iLoc  Cat Proc
-                                                          _                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fm
V: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION UNIT
V.1 Administration
V.1.1 Project Admtnistrator                                    288,000          72,000       72,000          72,000        72,000                W    L    I   0
V.1.2 Project AccountAnt                                       182,400          45,600       45.600          45,600        45,600                W    I.         O
V. 1.3 Junior Accountant                                        98,000         24,500        24,500          24,500        24,500                G    L    I   0
V. 1.4 Procurement Specialist                                  144,000          36,000       36,000          36,000        36,000                G    L    I   0
V. 1.5 Senior Administrative Assistant                         128,000          32,000       32,000          32,000        32,000                a    1.    I   0
V. 1.6 Junior Administrative Assistant                          56,000          14,000       14,000          14,000        14,000              |(    I.    I 
V.1.7 Junior Assistant                                          29,000           7,250        7,250           7,250         7,250                G    L    I   0
V1.S Accounting and Mlonitoring System                         60,000          60,000                                                           W    L    F    0        v0
V.1.9 TA for Performance Monitoring                             77,000          20,000       20,000          20,000        17,000                W    L    F    0
V.1.10 Travel                                                    43,000          10,750       10,750          10,750        10,750                W    L    I   0
V.2 Equipment
V.2.1 Office Equipment                                         144,600          98,600       46,000                                              W    L    G    S
V.2.2 Supplies                                                  85,000          25,000       25,000          25,000        10,000                W    L    G    S
Total                                                   1,335,000        445,700       333,100         287,100       269,100             ol
I                    .                                                                                                                                                    I   ._ .__              1   
Fin:    World Bank (W); Government of Agentina (G).
Loc/Frn: Local (L) or Forcign (F) Expcnditurcs
Cal:    Good- (G); Consulr,nic: Long-Tern-, rdr.idi 1); Sbo,--Tcir, unidua (C); Fms (F); Proj. Admi. (P); Counitapa StAff(S); Office Refubishing3K).
ProC:   ICB (I); NCB (B); Othcr (0); Shopping (S); Non-Bank Fnanced (N)



Project Implementation Plan and Costs (US$)
VI: EXTERNAL ADMINISTRATION
Calendar Year                                                Total        1996/1997       1998          1999          2000          2001       Fin   Loc   Cat  Proc
__Fm  J         _
1.   External Administration and Audits
1. External Administration                                  1,400,000      350,000       350,000       350,000       350,000                 W      F      F     0
2. Audits                                                     100.000       25,000        25,000        25,000        25,000                 G      L      F     0
Total                                                     1,500,000      375,000       375,000       375,000      375,000              0
Fin:     World Bank (W); Govenunent of Argentina (G).
Le,/Frn: Local (L) or Foreign (F) Expenditures
('t:    (joods (0), Consultancies: Iong-Ternn, Individual (I); Shoul-Tenn, Individual (C); Firm (F); Proj Admin. (P); Counterpat Staff(S); Offiec Rcfurbishing (N).
Proe:    ICB (l); NCII (B); Other (0); Shopping (S); Non-Bank Financed (N).
0



Key Obiectives and Performance Indicators
OBJECTIVES                     OUTPUTS                 RISKS AND CRITICAL                 OUTCOMES AND                     MONITORING INDICATORS
ASSlJMPTIONS                      INPACTS
Reduce undue paymenis to     13cleniciary files substantlially   lflstltiulllliLatloll of' the clean-up    Reduced ploglalal costs  1996 - cid 1997: $40 millioi tcdtiction
beneficiaries due to fraud and    corrected               exercise is essential to (a) obtain  through the elinination of  End 1998 $40 million reduction
errors in grantings and                                   ownership of the process; (b) train    detected frauds and errors  End 1999 S40 million reduction
payments                                                  ANSeS staff in the various                                      End 2000: S40 million reduction
programs; and (c) reduce costs.
Improved database is prepared at the                           End 1997: first stage operational
same time to receive the corrected                             End 1998: Fully operational
data
Critical Processes rationalized   Delays in simplification process due   Grantings and payments  lProcedure manuals for all critical processes written
to unclear legal framework       following clear rules and     and in use
guideliens
Fraud Control Unit Set up    Unit must operate under close     The reductions obtained will    End 1997: TORs and Indicators prepared.
supervision from senior           be sustainable                End 1998: Annual Wrkplan approved by Senior Mgt.
management, with clear terms of                                 End 1999: fully operational
reference and precise perfornance
indicators to preserve impartiality
and effectiveness
Improve the quality of service    Full service agencies set up  New systems must provide all  Increased level of client   End 1997 reduction of days to grant benefit to less
to the client (timely, e'ficient,                         necessary information to the      satisfaction.                 than 30 days; 40 agencies operational.
accurate, with a minimum of    Payment and granting services   agencies                                                   End 1998: no delay on queries by customers on
effort from the client)     improved                                                        Perception of equitable       accounts.; visits by clients to satisfy queries is one, 90
Agency management must operate    operation of the pension      agencies operational, first yearly service plan
Immediate access to clients to   on internal accountability contracts   system               implemented; non-standard delivery methods
aonnt *n(nr.bnarr n                                                                          ,ntroduced.
Sustainability of system requires                               End 1999: 99% of all transactions carried out in
new incentive system rewrding                                   agencies. 140 agencies set up.
performance
Reduce undue payments and    Beneficiary files substantially    Risks are the same as above.  Reduced costs to the provinces   End 1997 $40 million reduction
improve the quality of services  corrected and absorbed into the  This objective is valid only for those  and to the nation in general.  End 1998: $40 million reduction
to provincial pension fund   national system.             provinces which take advantage of                               End 1999: $40 million reduction
beneficiaries                                             the transfer offer (10 so far)    Increased level of client     End 2000 $40 million reduction
satisfaction                 Quality of service as for national beneficiaries.



Key Objectives and Performance Indicators
OBJECTIVES                     OUTPUTS                  RISKS AND CRITICAL                OUTCOMES AND                     MONITORING INDICATORS
ASSUMPTIONS                       IMPACTS
To build the capacity of ANSeS  Full control of the Data  Finished                          Early tangible success towards
to adapt to change and fulfill    Processing Center                                         taking control of ANScS, and
its mandate                  New design of critical                                         enhancing the credibility of the
processes and agencies                                         reform programn
Management team trained      Fire-fighting may preclude getting  A management team with a    End 1997: Steering Committee operational
sufficient training and planning time  clear delineation of    Performance measures defined.
responsibilities and authorities   End 1998 iniernal accoLNtability contracts min use at
and an appropnate mix of     management levels.
skills
On-going intemal             Emphasis on doing may preclude    Common sense of purpose and   End 1998 Satisfactory results of internal survey
communications campaign      communications.                   shared values throughout
ANSeS
Management information      I-luried design of system          Management able to delegate    End 1997 M]S defined
system in operation                                            and monitor by result         End 1998 MIS operational
End 1999: Annual Plan by Results prepared and
made public                                     v
New automated systems and    Emphasis on centralized informatics   User-defined and managed  End 1997 plan and policics prepared and agree
informatics policies         may preclude user emnpowerment    automated systemsn, improved    End 1998: new systems introduced
and a service orientation         accountability.              End 1999 consolidated database operational
End 2000:long-term plan prepared
New personnel management    Inadequate incentive system may    Motivated workforce working    End 1997: 1 IR MIS and policies defined
policies and systems         preclude any real progress; lack of a   towards ANSeS objectives.  End 1998: performance appraisal system introduced;
scrvice orientation may result in                              HRMIS introduced; otilsourced training tied in to
old-style, feudal bureaucracy                                  career paths; nmodern classiticat ion ol'f unctions.
End 2000: 50 % of ANSeS workfoi ce trained.
Financial Management system   Elilpliasis on central control may  Financial information available  End 1997: service contracts revised.; local area
in operation                 preclude devolution of authority  for efficient decision-making  network with FMS operational.
End 1998: cost data by cost center available.
End 1999; ANSeS operational costs reduced by
10%. procurement practices revised.
Reorganized ANSeS           Insufficient attention paid to lower    Units work towards ANSeS'    All units have objectives, clearly identified results
level objectives and performnance  objectives                  and measurable indicators of perforinance; these
indicators                                                     aggregate upwards towards the over-arching ANSeS
objectives.



ADplication of Lessons Learned in Technical Assistance Proiects'
Unfavorable Governance Conditions:
Unhelpful institutional environment              Management is of particular attention to ANSeS. Three out of 4 managers at the Directorate level are newly
Lack of managers; functions not aligned with     hired, through head-hunters and advertisements, from the private sector; out of 8 senior managers in the next
objectives; unwieldy organizational structure and  rank, 4 have been hired, 2 ratified in their posts, 2 posts are vacant. At the third level, 29 out of 42 managers
procedures.                                      have been hired or selected from within the organization; the other posts are vacant
A new structure according to newly agreed objectives has been defined and is being implemented. All
procedures are being reviewed to facilitate operationality and accountability.
Systemic problems:                               The recently-begun Second Reform of the State is addressing basic legal impediments to the introduction of
Inadequate incentives and struclures.            better incentives and structures. This project will finance their revision within ANSeS.
Lack of Ownership:
Supplier-driven objectives                       To a certain extent this is true, as there is a (very natural) tendency for Borrowers to concentrate in the here
and now and leave longer term planning and issues of sustainability for later. The Bank's role in helping the
client to focus on the latter is very important in this context.
TA seen as free good                             Not applicable as this is a loan.
Inadequate participation by stakeholders and/or  Project has been prepared by the client based on client-driven diagnostic studies.
beneficiaries in project design stages.
ANeedfor a Champion                              This is crucial in this type of IDTA. A champion is in place now, but given the numerous government changes
in the past months, and the intense pressure to which champions are subjected, their continuity is always
doubtfuil. To dcal with this risk, tlhrece lines of action are considered:
(a) The position of General Manager was created, reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer.
The General Manager is a hand-picked second champion.
(b) The CEO will report periodically to a Steering Committee chaired by the Subsecretary of Social
Security, which approves the semi-annual plans submitted to the Bank and will provide continuity in
case of a change in champions.
(c) In the event of a total change, and given the importance of the champion to implementation, the
Bank will reserve the right to cancel the loan if it considers that the replacements are not willing or
able to continue implementation as planned.
Dependency syndrome                              At present there is a recognized dependency on consulting firms. Institutionalization will be a goal of all
future activities, measured by outcome indicators.
OED: Ltssons and Practices - Technical Assistance, Report Number 7 (May t996),



Lack of EID strategy:
Poor diiagnosis of the institutional environment  An extensive diagnosis was carried out by a qualified consulting firm in 1995.
Lack of shared vision of 11) directions andl priorities   To ovcrcomc this, manageincnt-1cvOcl scmiiiars arc planncd, as wvcil as an inicrnal and external publicity
campaign
Shortcomings of the project mnodel                Future activities are highly dependent on the results of initial activities. For cxample, only after tlie review of
the first 20,000 or so files will enough information be available to carry out a cost/benefit analysis on the
scope of this exercise. To err on the side of caution, only 500,000 files are scheduled for review in this stage.
However, it is strongly felt that at least 1,000,000 files will eventually have to be reviewed. During the mid-
term review, the need for a follow-on project will be studied
Too little focus on capacity use vs. capacity     intensive use of own staff is planned, and a comprehensive training program will be implemented.
building.
Ioo maniy unpriorilized objectives and components    The scope of the project is limited to one agency; priorities are set and revised by a project committee
composed of the agency's senior management.
Absence of appropriate performance indicators.     A Key Objectives and Performance Indicators Table has been prepared and can be found in the Techinical
Annex (page 31).
Too much or too little design flexibility         The implementation is designed to take into account the necd for flexibility as implementation proceeds. The
annual Plan of Action agreed with the Bank, as well as the mid-term review (see above) are designed to
preclude excessivC flexibility. 



Weak borrower management:
S,or-tAg.- aJskillc' d 7:1 project manaugers      The agency's managcrs will implcmciit thcir comilpoInciies. Fo support tlicin, a projcct administrator wit l
many years' experience with Bank projects has been hired. In addition, managers will receive training on
planning and change management.
Rent-seeking permitted                            A Fraud Control Unit will be formed to fight corruption.
Unsuitable expatriate experts; underuse or overuse    To minimize damage, expatriate consultants will be hired for short periods of time and their terms of
of local consultants                             reference will request results instead of defining functions. To preclude overuse of local consultants, only two
local individual consultants are planned (project administrator and project accountant). Given the healthy
state of Argentina's consulting industry and the prevalent strong desire to utilize local consultants, underuse
is not an issue.
Inadequate monitoring, evaluation and             Terms of reference have already been issued to request offers for a financial management system; a financial
accountability.                                   information system will be implemented through this project; internal contracts and a service orientation will
introduce evaluation and accountability.
Inadequate change/closure of nonperforming        Performance indicators will assist in identifying slow performing components; a decision on their
components; slow response to new opportunities.   continuation will be formally made during supervision missions, but can be made at any other time if
necessary. As to the second, the fact that there is no separately -financed Project Coordination or
Implementation Unit (since senior managers are responsible for project execution) ensures that issues will not
be ignored by the agency.



Supplier Shortcomings:
Insufficiently experienced staff              As mentioned above, managers will be trained and also supported by an experienced project administrator.
All other activities will be carried out by consulting firms with a mandate to institutionalize their activities.
Inadequate supervision and management oversight   A management information system will assist the Project Implementation Team, lcd by ANSeS' General
Manager. Monthly reports on project implementation by activity will be reviewed by the Team.
Inadequate monitoring and evaluation, and     Agreement with the Bank on annual Work Plans and Targets is a loan condition. Responsibilities for
accountability                                monitoring and evaluation are part of the Project Implementation Team's terms of reference.
Suipplier tYing of T,i and poor donor coordination    No other donors arc involved.
C0



Project Supervision Plan
Approximate                               Expected Skill Requirements      Staff Input
Dates            Acnvity                                                 (weeks)                                 Commenrts veqfy
March 1997   Startup mission         Accounting & monitonng                    2       Project accounting & auditing is set up correctly
Statistics, surveys                       3       Clean-lip file approach, milestones & cost-benefit
Pension Policy Economist                  3       Estimates of deficit reductions, fiscal impact of improvements
Sept. 1997                           Internal contracts                        2       Senior level performance indicators
Turnan. resources & mai-aagenri;:cii      3       HR policies, in particular proposed incentive system
Informatics                               2       Progress on consolidated database, critical systems
March 1998                           Statistics                                2       Cleanl-tip file approach, milestones & cost-benefit
Accountant                                2       Reductions in payments, audit project accounts
Human resources & management              3       Progress in training policy & training
Social Security Client Scrvices           2       Inhproveinent in service quality
Sept. 1998                           Internal contracts                        2       Middle-management performance indicators
Human resources & management              3       Reengineering progress and plans
Informatics management and policies       2       Uscr and service orientation, internal mnianagement                      L
March 1999   Mid-term                Pension Policy Economist                  2       Estimates of deficit reductions, fiscal impact of improvements
Review                 Human resources & management              3       Progress in institutionalization of improvements
Informatics                               2       Quality of new systems and plans
Accountant                                2       Reductions in payments, audit project accounts
Fraud Investigation                       2       Fraud Control Unit operations, effects.
Sept 1999                            Human resources & management              3       Reenginecring progress and plans
Informatics                               2       Data Migration Plan
Marchi 2000                          Statistics                                2       Verify cicani-uip file approach, milestones & cost-benefits
Human resources & management              2       Verify progress in training policy & training
Social Security Client Services           2       Verify progress
Accountant                                2       Verify reductions in payments, audit project accounts
Sept. 2000                           Human resources & management              2       Verify reengineering plans
March 2001   Closing mission         Accountant                                2       Verify reductions in payments, audit project accounts



38
SECTION C:
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
Social Security Administration in Latin American and the Caribbean, by Gary Reid and Olivia
Mitchell. Report No. 14066, the World Bank, March 22, 1995.
Argentina: New Integrated Pension System - First Year Assessment. Country Operations
Division, Country Department I, Latin America and the Caribbean Region
ANSeS: Diagnostic, 1996
ANSeS: Definici6n de ia Propuesta de Valor, May 1996
ANSeS: The Transformation Process, May 1996
Miscellaneous workplans presented by the Departments.
Plan de Transformaci6n de la ANSeS: Objetivos y Estrategias. 1996
Carnbiar para Servir a la Gente. ANSeS, August 1995.
Draft Terms of Reference:
* Preliminary Activities for the Creation of the Fraud Control Unit
* Fraud Control and Elimination Program
* Preliminary Activities for the Improvement of Client Services
* Improvement of Client Services: Human Resource Requirements
* Preliminary Activities for the Transfer of the Provincial Pension Funds
* Transfer of the Provincial Pension Funds
* Human Resource Requirements
* Project Accounting and Monitoring System
* Project Audit



