                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                   Report No: 34639- AR

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-41310)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 20 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                                 FOR A

                 NATIONAL PENSION ADMINISTRATION TECHNICAL PROJECT




                                           December 22, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective )

                  Currency Unit = Pesos
                          US$ 1 = $2.9 (+/-) variable

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 -    December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFIP       Tax Administration Agency
           (Administración Federal de Ingresos Públicos)
AFJP       Pension Funds Administrators
           (Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilación y Pensiones)
AGN        General Auditing Agency
           (Auditoría General de la Nación)
ANSES      National Social Security Administration
           (Administración Nacional de Seguridad Social)
BUSS       Single Social Security Database
           (Base Única de la Seguridad Social)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CCC        Public Letter of Commitment
           (Carta de Compromiso con el Ciudadano)
CUIL       Single Work Identifier Number
           (Código Único de Identificación Laboral)
DSS        Australian Department of Social Security
IADB       Inter-American Development Bank
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
ICT        Information and Communication Technology
ISO        International Organization of Standardization
LIB        Limited International Bidding
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PAMI       National Institute of Social Services for Retirees and Pensioners
           (Instituto Nacional de Servicios Sociales para Jubilados y Pensionados)
PAU        Project Administration Unit
PPF        Provincial Pension Funds
ReNaPer    National Registry of Persons
           (Registro Nacional de las Personas)
SICA       System for the Computation and Adjustment of Retirement Benefits
           (Sistema de Iniciación de Cómputo y Ajuste)
SINTyS     National System for Tax and Social Identification
           (Sistema de Identificación Nacional Tributario y Social)
SUAF       Unified Family Allowances Payment System
           (Sistema Unificado de Asignaciones Familiares)
SUDE       Single System for Unemployment
           (Sistema Único de Desempleo)

UDAI                Integral Assistance Unit
                    (Unidad de Asistencia Integral)
UDAM                Mobile Attention Unit
                    (Unidad de Atención Móbile)
UDAT                Telephone Attention Center
                    (Unidad de Atención Telefónica)
ULADE               Local Unit Serving Businesses
                    (Unidad Local de Atención a Empresas)
ULAT                Local Seasonal Unit
                    (Unidad Local de Atención Transitoria)
UNOPS               United Nations Office of Project Services

                         Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                       Country Director     Axel van Trotsenburg
                        Sector Manager      Ronald E. Myers
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Miguel Mercado Diaz

                                        ARGENTINA
                                       AR PENSION TA


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 21
8. Lessons Learned                                                               23
9. Partner Comments                                                              25
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
Annex 8. ANSES' Performance Assessment System                                    39
Annex 9. Borrower's contribution                                                 42

Project ID: P046821                                                  Project Name: AR PENSION TA
Team Leader: Miguel Mercado-Diaz                                     TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: AR PENSION TA                                            L/C/TF Number: SCL-41310
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (85%); Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance
                            (15%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); Other
                            accountability/anti-corruption (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/03/1996                                     Effective: 06/23/1997
     Appraisal: 06/13/1996                                         MTR: 04/30/1999                  04/24/2000
      Approval: 01/21/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT.OF ARG/NAT.SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Sri-Ram Aiyer (acting)
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Luis Chang (acting)
Sector Manager:                 Ronald E. Myers                                Stefan Alber (acting)
Team Leader at ICR:             Miguel Mercado-Diaz                            Luis Jose Mejia
ICR Primary Author:             Cecilia Zanetta


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The National Social Security Administration (ANSES) plays a pivotal role in Argentina's public sector,
serving as the national government's pension paymaster. In 1996, the agency administered about US$16
billion in payments, equivalent to 40 percent of total federal spending and almost seven percent of GDP. It
was created in 1991, when 18 individual agencies, each responsible for the administration of a different
pension system with distinctive rules and processes, were merged into a single agency. In 1993, ANSES
also absorbed the provincial pension funds that were transferred to the national system as part of the
Second Fiscal Pact. ANSES' role was redefined in 1994, when Argentina's national pension system
underwent a major reform that introduced an integrated pension system, with a publicly administered basic
pension and an additional pension for which affiliates could choose between a public option and a private
one based on individual capitalization accounts. Pension fund administrators (Administradoras de Fondos
de Jubilaciones y Pensiones; AFJPs) were created to manage the private option, while ANSES was given
the responsibility of administering the public portion of the pension system. In addition, ANSES is
responsible for making payments for family allowances, unemployment insurance and other social
programs.

Like many agencies in Argentina's public sector, ANSES was plagued by serious shortcomings, including
weak management systems, lack of a functioning accounting system, massive loses due to fraud and errors
in the granting of benefits, and serious deficiencies in the provision of services to its clients. While other
institutions, such as the Central Bank and the Ministry of Economy, had been the target of modernization
efforts in the reform program of the early 1990s, the need to modernize ANSES only became clear in the
context of the 1994 reform of the pension system. A new management team appointed in 1995 set in motion
a vigorous reform program based on a two-pronged strategy: (i) the development and implementation of an
`Emergency Plan' aimed at achieving at least a minimum level of control over the institution in the
short-run, and (ii) a `Transformation Plan,' to be implemented over the subsequent two years to transform
ANSES into a streamlined organization, designed to reward performance and meet customer and needs.
Having achieved significant results from the implementation of the Emergency Plan, the government sought
the Bank's support to implement the second stage of ANSES reform program. The Bank responded with
this National Pension Administration Technical Assistance Project (Loan No. 4131-AR; so-called
ANSES-I), which was approved in 1996 and initiated in 1997 to support the in-depth transformation of
ANSES and address its more immediate challenges.

The objectives of the ANSES-I operation were to assist the agency in improving its institutional efficiency
and effectiveness along modern management principles in order to: (a) reduce instances of improper
pension payment; (b) improve the quality of its client services; and (c) absorb the administration of the
provincial pension funds.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The operation's objectives remained unchanged during the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The operation was structured around four components (with US$20 million in Bank financing):

Component 1- Fraud and Error Control (16 percent of project costs - US$6.4 million total, of which
US$2.3 million corresponded to Bank financing): In 1996, ANSES issued approximately 3.5 million
payment orders per month, equivalent to roughly US$15.3 billion. The massive volume of transactions,
coupled with inadequate approval and payment processes resulted in considerable distortions due to fraud



                                                    - 2 -

as well as simple errors. Likewise, the significant gaps existing in records for past pension contributions
left the verification process open to technical errors and manipulation as well as ample room for discretion.
To address these weaknesses, the first component focused on reducing inappropriate disbursements due to
fraud and error by cleaning up existing files, setting up a Fraud Control Unit and agreeing on joint evasion
reduction programs with the General Tax Directorate.

Component 2 - Improvement of Service Delivery (11.6 percent of project costs - US$4.6 million, of which
US$2.7million corresponded to Bank financing):            Although historical statistics on ANSES service
delivery did not exist, surveys of individual branches revealed dismal levels of customer service and lengthy
approval periods for all benefits. To improve the agency's level of customer service, this component
supported     the   reorganization   of   ANSES'       service-delivery  network     under  an     operational
decentralization/normative centralization model. In particular, this component supported the establishment
of one-stop full-service units (Unidades de Asistencia Integral, UDAIs) as well as the re-engineering of
processes and systems, personnel and management training, and infrastructure needed to support the
decentralization of responsibilities for granting pensions, interpreting the legal framework, and modifying
customer data in the field branches.

Component 3 - Provincial Pension Funds Transfer (16 percent of project costs - US$6.4 million, of which
US$5.7 million corresponded to Bank financing): This component supported the transfer of up to 22
Provincial Pension Funds (PPFs) to the national system, as agreed by the national government in August,
1993. This component provided support to implement the transfer of the eleven PPFs that eventually were
transferred, a complex and intricate process that required reviewing individual beneficiary files to eliminate
irregularities and errors, as well as simplifying granting processes and making benefits of the individual
PPFs compatible with those of the national system.

Component 4 - Institutional Strengthening (49 percent of project costs - US$19.7 million, of which
US$6.9 million corresponded to Bank financing): A diagnostic study conducted in 1995 by the incoming
ANSES administration identified serious institutional shortcomings, including the lack of a shared vision,
obscure promotion criteria, vague definition of management and staff responsibilities and almost nil
accountability as a result of a generalized lack of operational information and performance indicators. To
address these weaknesses, this component included activities aimed at enhancing the efficiency of ANSES'
internal operation, including the adoption of a new organizational structure, modern management
techniques and an incentive system to reward performance, as well as the development of monitoring and
control mechanisms.

An additional US$1.3 million, of which US$0.9 million corresponded to Bank financing, were assigned to
the project administration unit. Moreover, US$1.5 million, of which US$100,000 in Bank financing, was
assigned to finance the costs of an external administrator, a role that was assigned to the United Nations
Office of Project Services (UNOPS).

3.4 Revised Components:
Although the original components were not revised during the life of the project, sub-components as well as
individual activities were repeatedly modified and revised according to the priorities of subsequent ANSES
administrations. One component (Component 2, Improvement of Service Delivery) was funded by the
ANSES operational budget and not by the loan, although supervised as part of the project. Also, an
additional component was added in 1999 to address the vulnerabilities of ANSES' technological
infrastructure arising from the change in the year numerals due to the transition to the new millennium,
commonly known as the Y2K problem.




                                                      - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is considered satisfactory. Although not explicitly addressed in the project documents, the
loan objectives were consistent with those of the Bank as articulated in the 1995 CAS (Report No.
14278-AR) as well as the government's own priorities, which called for the consolidation and deepening of
structural reforms. By supporting the modernization of ANSES, the operation contributed toward the
consolidation of Argentina's social security reform, which figured prominently among the structural
reforms being implemented during the early 1990s. The Bank's team correctly identified a window of
opportunity to support the modernization of one of Argentina's most prominent public agencies,
capitalizing on the presence of a reform-minded and highly motivated management team. Project
preparation benefited from strong ownership on part of the borrower as well as substantive diagnostic
studies that had been prepared by the client. Drawing from the Bank's ample expertise on public-sector
modernization work, the appraisal team correctly identified a set of key actions that needed to be taken as
part of ANSES' transformation program and included them in this operation.

Accurately acknowledging that the re-invention of ANSES would require long-term, sustained efforts that
went beyond the scope of the operation, the Bank's team opted to limit the scope of the operation to support
the initial efforts of the reform strategy rather than attempting to put together a work plan with extremely
flexible terms (see p. 9; Technical Annex). Accordingly, three of the project's components focused on well
defined areas of intervention, addressing the immediate issues of reducing error and fraud, improving
customer service and implementing the transfer of the provincial pension funds. These components were
straightforward and had a clear set of measurable outcomes. A fourth component addressing the agency's
institutional weaknesses was also included, as the institutional transformation of ANSES was considered a
necessary condition for ensuring the sustainability of the actions financed under the other three components.
This fourth component was vaguer, focusing more on activities than specific outcomes. Not surprisingly,
the first three components experienced relatively less difficulties during their implementation and were fully
completed by mid-2000. In contrast, the implementation of the fourth component proved to be more
challenging and experienced significant delays and detours during the life of the project.

A well-articulated set of monitoring indicators was developed for the first three components (see Annex 1).
However, the chaos in the agency's files and the generalized lack of information made it very difficult to
estimate the potential benefits corresponding to the various activities. As a result, expected outcomes,
when quantified, were more an educated guess than the result of a carefully calibrated performance
measure. As mentioned earlier, the fourth component--i.e., institutional development--relied more on
activities than on measurable outcomes, weakening the project's overall design.

Drawing from an in-depth analysis of the lessons learned from other institutional development operations,
the Bank's team clearly identified the various risks threatening project implementation, including
unfavorable governance conditions, lack of sustained ownership, lack of a clear institutional development
strategy, and weak management. Accordingly, the Bank's team took appropriate measures to mitigate
these risks through adequate project design, such as developing a highly detailed project implementation
plan with associated cost estimates (see pp. 23-30, Technical Annex). Most notably, the Bank reserved the
right to cancel the loan in the event of a total change in the management team (see p. 33, Technical Annex).
Unfortunately, the focus on project risks eroded borrower ownership on occasion, and as a result appears to
have weakened during some periods of supervision.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Despite the obstacles and challenges faced during its implementation, the ANSES-I operation has



                                                      - 4 -

fulfilled--and in some cases, even surpassed--its objectives and is rated satisfactory. Specifically, the
project has succeeded in setting in motion and sustaining the modernization of one of Argentina's major
public agencies, supporting the implementation of significant institutional reforms which have enhanced the
agency's management capacity, coverage, and service delivery. Ex-ante and ex-post control systems are
now in place helping reduce fraud and enhance transparency in the granting of benefits. The ANSES-I
operation has also helped the agency fulfill its mandate by supporting the absorption of 11 provincial
pension funds, including the review, cleaning and incorporation of roughly 200,000 beneficiary files.
Likewise, the operation has supported a major expansion in ANSES' service-delivery network, as well as
the adoption of a more customer-oriented culture within the agency. In addition, the ANSES-I operation
has helped the agency develop and implement an organizational vision that effectively supports its mission.
As a result, ANSES has moved from being an institution perceived as highly inefficient, nontransparent and
poorly managed, to an institution that is among the most efficient within Argentina's public sector.

The ANSES-I operation has resulted in substantial monetary savings. During the first stage of its
implementation through 2001, the project generated over US$100 million in potential annual savings,
primarily from the detection of inappropriate benefits as the result of new control mechanisms, the
implementation of a new system for the early detection of deceased beneficiaries, and the cleaning up of
beneficiary files as part of the transfer of the eleven pension funds to the national system (see Table 1). It
is important to note, however, that only a fraction of all potential savings were actually made effective, as
the decision to eliminate inappropriate benefits was often outside ANSES' jurisdiction--for instance, the
courts often reinstate benefits already granted, regardless of whether they are legitimate. Since the emphasis
was on detection rather than the actual elimination of benefits, there is no reliable data on the actual savings
generated during that period, although they are expected to be substantial. Starting in 2002, ANSES
implemented a monitoring system that systematically tracks the agency's performance, including actual
savings from ex-post control mechanisms and the early detection of deceased beneficiaries. As a result,
savings arising from the operation can now be clearly determined. As shown on Table 1, actual annual
savings amounted to almost US$10 million in 2004.

Table 1. Summary of Savings Resulting from ANSES-I

       Type of Savings               Annual Savings                         Comment
                                       (US$ million)
Potential Annual Savings as
of Dec. 2001 (US$1 = Arg.$1)
Ex-post auditing by risk group (1)    US$45 million (*)     §OverUS$180millionincumulativepotential
                                                            savings from the detection of inappropriate
                                                            pensions, modifications to existing pensions
                                                            and over-payments by ex-post auditing from
                                                            1996 t0 2000 (see p. 10).
Transfer of Provincial Pension       US$26.7 million (*)   § Resultingfromthedetectionofover16,000
Funds (2)                                                  provincial pension benefits that were
                                                           inappropriate (see p. 12).
Early Detection of Deceased            US$29 million        §Annualsavingsfromreducingthetimeto
Beneficiaries (ADP System) (3)                              identify deceased beneficiaries from 82 to less
                                                            than 30 days (see p. 10).
Consolidation of ANSES                 US$1.3 million       §Reductioninoperatingcostsofroughly
Archives (4)                                                US$1.3 million as a result of consolidation of
                                                            ANSES' archives in 1998 (see p. 14).
Total Annual Potential Savings       US$102.0 million
Actual Annual Savings in
2004 (US$1 = Arg.$2.9 variable)



                                                       - 5 -

Ex-ante control mechanisms (6)         US$2.4 million     §Equivalenttoaveragemonthlysavingsof
                                                          Arg.$588,391 (see p. 10 and Table 2).
Ex-post control mechanisms (7)         US$1.1 million    § Equivalenttomonthlyaveragesavingsof
                                                         Arg.$271,609 (see p. 10 and Table 2).
                                                         § Anewex-postcontrolsystemwasintroduced
                                                         in April 2004, resulting in a 40 percent increase
                                                         in savings.
Early detection of deceased            US$1.8 million    § Equivalenttomonthlyaveragesavingsof
beneficiaries (8)                                        Arg.$457,265 (see p. 10 and Table 2).
Family Allowances System (             US$4.5 million    § DuringtheperiodJuly-September2005,the
Sistema Único de Asignaciones                            SUAF have yield average monthly savings of
Familiares ­ SUAF) (9)                                   US$380,000--equivalent to over US$4.5 million
                                                         in annual savings (see p. 15).
                                                         § TheSUAFdoesnotyethave100%coverage;
                                                         thus, savings are expected to increase.
Total Actual Annual Savings           US$9.8 million
(*) There is no information on how much of these savings actually materialized. Thus, they are referred to as
    `potential' savings.
(1) Project Status Report, 6/15/2000, 10/31/2000, ANSES' Project Impact Indicators 1997-2001.
(2) Project Status Report, 6/15/2000; 10/31/2000; ANSES Semi-Annual Report, 9/23/2000; 3/20/2002; ANSES'
    Project Impact Indicators 1997-2001.
(3) ANSES' Project Impact Indicators 1997-2001.
(4)      ANSES Semi-Annual Report, 8/1998
(6) ANSES' Control and Fraud Prevention Unit, Oct. 2005.
(7) ANSES' Control and Fraud Prevention Unit, Oct. 2005.
(8) ANSES' Performance Assessment System (Sistema de Medición de Desempeño), Oct. 2005.
(9) ANSES' Control and Fraud Prevention Unit, Oct. 2005.

Component 1- Fraud and Error Control: With the support of ANSES-I, the widespread lack of control
that was prevalent in the early 1990s has been substantially reduced through stricter fraud and error control
mechanisms and the creation of an internal fraud reduction unit. Specifically, the ANSES-I operation
supported the introduction of automatic processes in claims processing, created an specialized fraud control
unit, elaborated a risk profile matrix for auditing and control and set in place mechanisms for the
systematic exchange of information with other government agencies to detect leakages and errors in the
beneficiaries database. Overall, the activities financed under this component have identified substantial
savings--over US$200 million in estimated savings over the life of the project--from fraud and error
detection through desk-checking of existing paper files, on-site visits and audits and updating the
beneficiary database. As noted earlier, it is not possible to distinguish actual from potential savings during
the first stage of the operation. Nevertheless, actual savings from the implementation of fraud and error
control systems are real, amounting to over US$3.5 million in 2004 alone. Actual savings are expected to
increase even more in the future, as the result of a more effective ex-post error and fraud detection system
adopted in March 2004, which targets the detection of benefits that are more likely to be eliminated. In
addition, actual savings from the implementation of improved mechanisms for the early detection of
deceased beneficiaries have also been substantial, totaling US$1.9 million in 2004. In addition, as a result
of the retrofitting of fraud-control systems into the reengineering of the agency's regular operational
processes, the percentage of errors and fraud detected on an ongoing basis in the granting of pensions in the
public system has been reduced considerably, from 15.1 percent in 1998 to less than eight percent in 2005.




                                                     - 6 -

                                  Table 2. Error and Fraud Detection Indicators (Arg.$)

Control and Fraude Detection Indicators                                    2001     2002     2003     2004    2005 *

% of errors detected by control units at UDAIs- Public Pension System      5.1%     5.5%     7.1%     6.1%     7.9%
% of errors detected by control units at UDAIs- Private Option **          10.6%   11.6%    11.8%    15.1%    13.8%
Avg. monthly savings from ex-ante error and fraud detection                 n.a.    n.a.     n.a.    588,391  517,428
Avg. monthly savings from ex-post error and fraud detection                 n.a.   205,657  346,808  271,609  801,872
Avg. monthly savings from early detection deceased beneficiaries            n.a.   330,195  407,736  457,265  553,653
* Corresponds to the period January through August.
** It also reflects performance of AFJPs
Source: ANSeS Strategic Planning Unit; Fraud Control Unit.


Component 2 - Improvement of Service Delivery: Under ANSES-I, access to services has improved
significantly as the result of the operational decentralization of ANSES and a remarkable increase in the
number of service delivery channels. Specifically, ANSES-I supported the expansion of a decentralized
service network composed of 240 centers located throughout the country, eight mobile attention units, ten
service call-centers and a free hotline, as well as a well-developed website. In addition, the operation
supported a revision of the approval and payment processes to simplify and automate them in a
decentralized mode, using interconnected information systems and, at the same time, introducing
monitoring and control mechanisms at headquarters. The improvements in customer service resulting from
the activities supported under this component have been noteworthy. Although there are few statistics
showing the historically low levels of customer service, every Argentine still remembers the long lines of
retirees and pensioners standing in the rain or under the sun outside banks, waiting interminable hours to
receive their pension payments. Likewise, there was a general lack of information on the average time that
elapsed between the application for retirement and the actual granting of the benefit, with anecdotic
evidence showing sometimes years of delay.

Some of the achievements under this component include reducing the number of backlog claims from
85,000 to 56,000 claims between 2001 and 2004, reducing the average number of days to grant retirement
benefits within the public system from a pre-project average of six months to 58 days in 2004, and
reducing the average waiting time at the orientation counter from 27 to 17 minutes between 2001 and 2004.
(There has been a slight worsening of customer service indicators during 2005, as the result of a sharp
increase in the demand for pension benefits as part of new early retirement initiatives launched by the
government in the past few months. Pension applications increased over 57 percent during the April-July
period in 2005 with respect to the same period in 2004.) Likewise, while in 1996 the average visit to an
ANSES agency lasted an average of 5.5 hours, today 93.6 percent of all visitors leave the UDAIs (Integral
Assistance Unit - Unidad de Asistencia Integral) within two hours. The payment of pensions is now on
time, according to a widely publicized calendar that shows specific payment dates for the month ahead.
Moreover, payments are now made earlier and over a shorter time span--for example, payments
corresponding to January 2004 were made between 1 January and 7 February, compared to 2002, when
January payments were made between 31 January and 15 March. These improvements in customer service
are reflected in customer satisfaction, which shows a steady increase, rising from 30 to 43 percent between
2001 and 2005. In addition, a study conducted by an independent third party and sponsored by Argentina's
Sub-Secretariat of Public Management (Subsecretaría de Gestión Pública) and the State Modernization
Loan (Loan 4423-AR) reports that over 85 percent of the respondents expressed being `satisfied' or `highly
satisfied' with ANSES' overall performance.

                                                    Table 3. Customer Service Indicators




                                                                      - 7 -

Customer Service Indicators                                             2001     2002     2003     2004    2005 *
Stock of pending applications - Public System                          68,023   63,033   46,988   44,342   66,677
Stock of pending applications - Private Option                         15,345   20,378   10,869   11,261   15,996
Stock of pending applications / Total beneficiaries - Private Option   2.1%      2.0%     1.5%     1.4%     2.1%
Stock of pending applications / Total beneficiaries - Public System    58.8%    43.0%    14.0%    10.0%    11.3%
Avg. # working days for processing - Public System                       80       91       76       58       62
Avg. # working days for processing - Private Option                      225      189      182      160      91
Avg. waiting time - Orientation counter - UDAIs                        0:26:54  0:21:34  0:17:38  0:16:41  0:26:39
% Customers that left the UDAI witihin 2 hours                           n.a.   96.5%    100.0%   99.61%   93.59%
Certified Quality Management Processes                                                      1
Overall Customer Satisfaction                                            n.a.   30.06%   31.61%   38.86%   42.87%
ANSeS service network
  UDAIs (Decentralized full-service units)                               n.a.     108      111      113     114
  Offices                                                                n.a.     94       112      127     126
  UDATs (Phone centers)                                                  n.a.      8       10       10       10
  UDAMs (Mobile attention units)                                         n.a.      7        8        8        8
  ANSeS Payment Centers (Centros de Pago )                               n.a.     61       90       117     117
  Internet services (such as CUIL and other inquiries)                   n.a.   643,215  550,409  767,485  997,024
  Localities visited by UDAMs                                            125      79       169      208     201
  Services provided by UDATs                                          322,651   288,193  351,289  402,816  536,915
* Corresponds to the period January through August.

Source: ANSeS Strategic Planning and Control Units.




Component 3 - Provincial Pension Funds Transfer: Eleven out of the initially expected 22 provincial
pension funds were absorbed into the national system after verification of their files and elimination of
errors and fraud. These PPFs were Catamarca, Río Negro, Mendoza, Tucumán, Salta, San Juan, Jujuy,
San Luís, La Rioja, Santiago del Estero and the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires (CABA). (The
remaining provinces did not fulfill the required financial pre-requisites, or chose not to transfer the PPFs to
avoid the negative political repercussions resulting from switching beneficiaries to the stricter national
system.) With the support of the ANSES-I project, the eleven provincial pension funds were merged into
the national system, reconciling very diverse structures, processes, technologies, and organizational
cultures and improving fraud and error detection. This effort resulted in an additional 191,000 beneficiaries
being incorporated into the ANSES main database, with annual savings of over US$9 million from
efficiency gains and fraud and error detection.

Component 4 - Institutional Modernization: The ANSES-I operation has effectively supported the
modernization of one of Argentina's flagship public agencies, although in more ad-hoc manner than
foreseen in the original project design. This factor is due to, in large, the frequent turn-over of ANSES
management, as the Executive Director and General Manager positions changed thirteen times during the
project, resulting in constantly changing priorities. Nevertheless, the operation helped ANSES establish an
institutional vision that fully supports its mission, modernize its core business processes, incorporate
information and communication technologies (ICT) for improved beneficiary identification and accelerated
service-delivery, and enhance its internal and external communications channels. New tools developed
under the ANSES-I operation have yielded substantial financial benefits and improvements in level of
service. For example, the implementation of a new family allowances system (Sistema Unificado de
Asignaciones Familiares - SUAF) is yielding US$4.5 million in annual savings from the elimination of
inappropriate benefits. Likewise, as a result of the overhauling of ANSES' warehouse, records can now be
located in just seconds compared to the average 24 hours that used to take before the project. In addition,
ANSES management can now rely on a set of well-developed management tools, such as a management
control system (Tablero de Control de Gestión), performance indicators, a strategic plan, and an annual
operation plan to monitor, control and assess the performance of the various units within the agency. An
estimated US$30 million annual savings have resulted from efficiency gains through business process
reengineering as well as the incorporation of ICT technology into ANSES' day-to-day operations. While
the number of services provided by ANSES has increased significantly over the past ten years, its



                                                                     - 8 -

personnel have decreased from approximately 8,800 to 7,400 employees between 1996 and 2005.
However, overall operational costs have risen from 2002 onwards as a result of an expansion of payments
managed by ANSES, infrastructure investments, salary increases and banking fees, from 0.65 to 1.49
percent of ANSES' total budget (Table 4).

                            Table 4. Overall Agency Performance Indicators (Arg.$)


Overall Agency Performance Indicators                              2001         2002        2003    2004     2005 *
   Annual Operational Budget (in thousands)                     189,300        216,700    263,000  310,187   424,050
   Annual Personnel Expenditures (in thousands)                 125,300        152,800    176,400  188,507   220,200
   Number of Personnel                                              n.a.       7,432       7,249   7,349     7,410
   Annual personnel expenditures as % of operational budget      66.2%         70.5%       67.1%   60.8%     51.9%
   New benefits issued / Number of personnel                        n.a.        2.96        3.32    3.61      3.60
   Retirement benefits paid by ANSeS (in thousands)            18,003,600 18,092,300 18,625,400 18,048,500 17,677,849
   Other benefits paid by ANSeS (in thousands) **              11,057,901 11,112,381 11,439,814 11,085,479 10,857,824
   Operational Budget / Total Benefits paid by ANSeS             0.65%         0.74%       0.87%   1.06%     1.49%
* Based on the average corresponding to the period January through August.
** Estimated based on the ratio between retirement and other benefits paid by ANSeS in 2005.

Source: ANSeS Strategic Planning and Control Units.




4.2 Outputs by components:
The specific outcomes corresponding to the individual components are the following:
Component 1- Fraud and Error Control: Activities in this component aimed to reduce undue
disbursements due to fraud and error.

§        Review of Beneficiary Files: This activity consisted of the revision of existing paper files to detect
possible fraud and errors. Initially it was estimated that about 300,000 files that had been identified as
being the ones more susceptible of containing errors would be reviewed and corrected. Based on earlier
estimates made as part of the diagnostic studies, it was expected that substantial fraud and errors would be
found, whose correction would represent large savings--US$300 million per year or more. Following a
systematic sampling of 5,000 files--of which only 3,500 files were actually obtained­carried out by two
staff from the Department of Social Security (DSS) of Australia in November 1997 and evaluation of the
corresponding beneficiary files by ANSES, it was determined that the benefits to be derived from the
clean-up would not justify its cost. Consequently, ANSES decided to cancel the massive revision of
beneficiary files and continued with the revision on the basis of risk groups. The large gap between
anticipated and actual savings points to the difficulties of quantifying project outcomes when there is a
generalized lack of information As noted earlier, in the case of ANSES-I expected outcomes were more an
educated guess than a carefully calibrated performance measure.                              Actual results showed that the
expectations were unreasonably high.

§        Ex-post Auditing by Risk Group: A series of high-risk groups was identified, including
beneficiaries from provincial pension funds and recipients of multiple benefits. Between 1996 and 1998,
this sub-component resulted in potential savings totaling over US$127 million from the elimination of
98,000 pensions, 36,000 modifications to existing pensions and 84,000 cases of recuperated
over-payments. Between January 1999 and July 2000, 117,000 additional cases were discovered,
amounting to total savings of US$53.5 million. As mentioned above, not all these potential savings did
indeed materialize, as, in some cases, the elimination of benefits was beyond ANSES jurisdiction or, in
other cases, benefits were reinstated by the courts. At the time, the monitoring system did not differentiate
between potential and actual savings, for which is it not possible to quantify actual savings.This
sub-component was subsequently absorbed into the regular operations of the Fraud Control Unit.




                                                                 - 9 -

§        Identification of Deceased Beneficiaries: The inability to detect deceased beneficiaries resulted in
significant loses for ANSES. It was estimated that the pensions of roughly 300,000 deceased beneficiaries
were still cashed by third parties. A census to detect deceased beneficiaries was included in the original
design, but it was later decided to create a unit to detect the number of deceased beneficiaries by
cross-checking information with National Institute of Social Services for Retirees and Pensioners (Instituto
Nacional de Servicios Sociales para Jubilados y Pensionados ­ PAMI) and the National Registry of
Persons (ReNaPer). Currently, ANSES has in place an efficient mechanism to capture information on
deceased beneficiaries from various national and sub-national levels of government, including provincial
and municipal civil registries, which has reduced the time of identifying deceased beneficiaries from 82 to
less than 30 days, equivalent to annual savings of over US$1.8 million in 2004.

§        Establishing a Fraud Control Unit: A Fraud Control Unit (Gerencia de Control y Prevensión de
Fraude) was established in 1997, with an operational unit at the central level and decentralized cells
located in 93 UDAIs. This unit has successfully developed prevention, detection and monitoring
mechanisms to detect both errors and fraud. Actual savings from the ex-ante detection of errors--prior to
benefits being granted--conducted by decentralized control units functioning at the UDAIs amounted to
US$2.4 million in 2004, while savings from the ex-post detection of errors and fraud--after benefits were
granted--amounted to US$1.1 million in 2004. A new control system for ex-post error and fraud control
that relies heavily on data engineering and high-risk groups was introduced in April 2004. Early results are
very promising, as savings have increased on average by 40 percent since the inception of this new control
system. In addition, error and fraud control systems are used to identify and solve systematic problems in
ANSES regular operational processes. As a result, the percentage of errors and fraud detected on an
ongoing basis in the granting of pensions in the public system has been reduced considerably, from 15.1
percent in 1998 to less than eight percent in 2005--it actually reached six percent in 2004, but
subsequently increased as a result of a substantial increase in ANSES' workload.

Component 2 ­ Improvement of Client Service Quality: Under the project, ANSES was reorganized to
provide one-stop, full-service points of sale, developing the corresponding new processes and systems,
trained personnel and an upgraded infrastructure. The new operational model based on `normative
centralization-operational decentralization' is in large part responsible for the remarkable progress in
service delivery.

§        Extended Service Network: ANSES has achieved a strong presence throughout the country, with
an extended customer-attention network that consists of: 114 Integrated Attention Centers (Unidades de
Atención Integral, UDAIs); ten Telephone Attention Centers (Unidades de Atención Telefónica, UDATs),
which process approximately 500,000 calls per month; 20 units dedicated to serve the needs of businesses (
Unidades Locales de Atención a Empresas, ULADE; Unidades Locales de Atención Transitoria, ULAT);
126 offices located throughout the country; and eight Mobile Attention Units (Unidades de Atención
Móbiles, UDAM. These units are provided with satellite communication equipments to serve geographical
locations with poor accessibility. During 2005, these units visited an average of 200 locations per months.

§        Exclusively-Dedicated Payment Centers (Centros de Pagos ANSES): On 20 March 1997, ANSES
opened its first payment center in a joint venture with the Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires. Since
then, ANSES has partnered with other financial institutions to provide its customers with 117 payment
centers. These centers, which are exclusively dedicated to pension payment, also offer retirees and
pensioners the possibility to pay taxes and utilities. Customer service and physical facilities are specifically
tailored to the needs of the elderly. These centers have to meet specific criteria--such as maximum waiting
time, available seating, TV, air conditioning and handicapped access--and fines are given to those payment
centers that do not comply with the agreed standards. In addition, a new fraud-detection system is being


                                                      - 10 -

implemented, which requires the identification of the beneficiary through the comparison of the
beneficiary's fingerprints with those in the digital file. The number of retirees using these payment centers
has been climbing steadily since their inception, with over 1.2 million benefits paid at these centers in
September 2004.

§        ANSES Website: ANSES has also developed a state-of-the-art website (www.anses.gov.ar) that
provides important information to its clients. Together with general information, statistics and online forms,
the site includes several applications, which, as of August 2005, are used by almost a million users per
month. Some of these applications include a payment location search engine (Dónde Cobro?) that provides
retirees with information on location and dates of their next payment, online information of family
allowance payments, as well as an online application to obtain the Single Worker Identifier Number (
Código Único de Identificación Laboral; CUIL).

§        Enhanced Citizen Participation and Accountability Mechanisms: During the past three years,
ANSES has placed a particular emphasis on revitalizing citizen participation and enhancing accountability.
One of the main outcomes in this area has been the publication of ANSES' Public Letter of Commitment (
Carta de Compromiso con el Ciudadano, CCC), by which the agency commits itself to explicit standards
of service. According to an independent study sponsored by the Sub-secretariat of Public Management,
citizens report 88 percent of compliance with the 2004 CCC, which, in turn, exhibits an average increase of
18 percent in the service standards corresponding to the 2003 CCC. In addition, ANSES has implemented
the Citizen Communication Channel (Canal de Comunicación con el Ciudadano), a new mechanism by
which customers can complain when the times are longer than those specified in the CCC; each complaint
is brought to the attention of the UDAIs' manager, who is then responsible for ensuring that the issue is
promptly resolved.      The role of ANSES' Advisory Body (Órgano Consultivo de ANSES), which is
constituted by 103 representatives from all the local organizations of retirees and pensioners (Federaciones
de Jubilados y Pensionados), has also been substantially strengthened. Both the quarterly meetings of the
advisory body and the monthly meetings held by its Executive Board include working meetings with
ANSES' top management. To facilitate the dissemination of needed information, 40,000 issues of the
Retiree Journal (Diario del Jubilado), a publication that provides information on benefits and services to
retirees and pensioners, are distributed on a monthly basis throughout ANSES' service network and local
retirees organizations.

Component 3 ­ Transfer of 11 Provincial Pension Funds: Of a total universe of 207,294 beneficiaries
corresponding to approximately 830 provincial public entities at both the provincial and municipal levels,
191,000 beneficiaries were interviewed and integrated into the ANSES database. This work was
logistically challenging, as it involved working physically in the provinces with teams that needed to be
trained in both the provincial and national pension funds under strict supervision and quality control teams
from ANSES headquarters. An additional 1,100 files were found to be unreported deaths representing
potential annual savings of US$10.5 million; 15,000 pensions granted to minors were eliminated in the case
of beneficiaries that had reached adulthood, representing potential annual savings of US$14.1 million; a
further US$2.1 million potential annual savings resulted from the detection of beneficiaries that did not
meet eligibility criteria, such as minimum retirement age. As noted earlier, some of these potential benefits
did not come about, as courts and provincial governments often interfered with the elimination of benefits
flagged as inappropriate.

Component 4 ­ Institutional Strengthening: Activities in support of improving ANSES' internal
reorganization consisted of the introduction of a new organizational structure, management techniques and
incentive system tied to performance, as well as central monitoring and control and back-office operations
such as maintaining the central database and telecommunications. As mentioned earlier, the activities under


                                                     - 11 -

this component were modified frequently to reflect the priorities of the various ANSES administrations.
However, despite their convoluted implementation, the activities supported under this component have been
critical in ANSES' modernization process.

§         Organizational Restructuring: The operation financed the conceptual blueprint for the process of
modernization of ANSES as well as key activities, including the reengineering of critical processes, an
analysis of the relative value of the various processes and activities, a reorganization proposal, the
implementation of a robust system of monitoring and performance indicators, as well as the insertion of
strategic and operational planning functions within the organization. While the process of modernization
has suffered many detours, ANSES now has a strong result-oriented management culture that relies on
sophisticated planning tools. The newly established Planning Area (Gerencia de Planeamiento) has played
a key role in the establishment of a result-oriented culture within the organization. A Strategic Plan
systematically tracks progress toward performance targets that have been jointly determined with individual
operational units for the 2002-2005 periods, while an Annual Operation Plan provides a detailed
operational blueprint for the short-term. A series of performance indicators (Indicadores de Deepen)
developed for each management area brings accountability and transparency into upper-management
performance (see Annex 7 for the 2001-2005 indicators). Moreover, it allows top executives to easily
detect deviations from anticipated levels of performance, outputs and quality of service. During the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) interviews, it was observed that management at various levels of
the organization, ranging from the executive to the UDAIs, relied on a monitoring system (Tableriou de
Control) to monitor its own performance and that of lower levels in the agency's organizational structure.

§         Technological Platform: The operation financed the redesign and implementation of a new
technological platform to support the ANSES' new operational model, including the overall ICT redesign,
the development of an implementation plan, contingency plan, the reengineering of payment processes, data
encrypting, an intranet system, the implementation of an e-mail and electronic internal communication
systems, the unification of previously independent databases into a single ANSES database and the
acquisition of ICT equipment, including a new server. This new server, which was made operational in
September 2004, has reduced the average response time for processing electronic transaction from over 3
seconds to less than 1 second, while increasing by almost 50 percent the number of transactions being
processed at peak times. It is important to note that the implementation of a new ICT platform has been a
critical step in the modernization of ANSES, as the computer center was a major center of corruption
within the agency. The impact of the activities financed under this sub-component is reflected in the
remarkable improvement in ANSES' overall performance.

§         Human Resources: The enhancement of the quality of human resources, as well as their efficient
administration was an important aspect of ANSES' modernization. The implementation of an integrated
human resources information system was financed under the project, which permitted to produce the first
complete list of personnel for ANSES--prior to the project, the number of staff working for ANSES was
not clear, as there were large discrepancies between the payroll and human resources databases. In
addition, the program supported the strengthening of ANSES management, including training in basic
project management principles. This training was later extended to UDAI-level personnel. With the joint
support of the State Modernization Loan, ANSES adopted a new organizational structure, which reduced
the number of central administration operating units from 82 to 47, a reduction equivalent to 43 percent.
First level units were reduced from 18 to 10, while second level units were reduced from 64 to 37. This
reduction in the number of units has resulted in significant savings in wages, as well as facilitated the
`professionalization' of the managerial structure. In addition, the project provided financial support for
training and computer equipment for local retirees' organizations, to help them develop basic skills to
provide information to those approaching retirement and administer basic procedures.


                                                   - 12 -

§        Financial Administration: The project also financed the development and implementation of
financial administration processes to ensure the transparent, effective, and efficient management of ANSES
resources. Some of the activities that received financial support from the program included the inventory,
initial diagnosis, and reengineering of ANSES administrative, procurement and judicial processes, the
implementation of a management-control system, and the deployment of the national government's
integrated financial administration system, the SIDIF.

§        Active Workers Database: In 1997, ANSES began develop a strategy to incorporate information
on the work history--wage and retirement contributions--for active workers into master database, the
so-called `Active Workers Database' (Base de Activos). This data previously existed in various forms and
was available from various sources. For example, information on wages and contributions from 1994
forward, which is considered to be reasonably accurate, is passed by AFIP (Tax Administration Agency -
Administración Federal de Ingresos Públicos) to ANSES electronically on a monthly basis. However, the
data prior to 1994 is in various levels of availability and accessibility. To tackle the challenge of obtaining
this data, ANSES has focused on key sources of information, including the workers previously
participating in Provincial Pension Funds, workers previously working on 35 government entities that had
been privatized (Entes Residuales), and workers working for the national government (Entes Nacionales).
As of October 2005, the Active Workers Database contains information on over 35 million of workers, of
which 685,000 correspond to provincial pension funds, over 1.5 million to privatized public entities, and
183,000 to workers employed by the national government. This is the result of a Herculean task, which
included obtaining labor histories from multiple sources--for example, in the case of provincial employees,
information often resided in multiple agencies within the 11 provincial jurisdictions, including private
companies. Likewise, records were maintained in a variety of forms, such as paper, microfilm, or electronic
format. By supporting the conformation of this critical database, the program has enhanced the
transparency of the benefit granting process, as accurate and up-to-day records on wages and contributions
are essential to ensure correct benefit payment awards upon retirement. In addition, this database has
improved the quality and timeliness of service to the public. For example, in the case of privatized public
entities, former employees can now obtain a certification of services in 48 hours, compared to six to eight
months prior to the project.

§         Inventory of Beneficiary Files and Reorganization of ANSES' Central Archive: This effort has
been a central priority because of its critical importance to the accuracy in the adjudication of claims and
improved service to the public. The chaos reigning in ANSES files has also been a significant factor
contributing to the litigation workload. In 1998, ANSES consolidated its various data warehouses in a
central archive, resulting in a reduction in operating costs of roughly US$1.3 million, as well as
considerable time savings and improvements in security. In a second stage of this activity, a Commission
was established to develop regulations for the retention of documents as well as the organization of the files
within the central archive. The actual inventory and reorganization of ANSES' central archive, which was
completed in August 2005, involved the physical inventory of over ten million files--over 8.5 million paper
files and 1.5 million in microfiche--each of which was assigned a barcode containing information on the
identity of the beneficiary and the physical location of the file, and incorporated into an automated
electronic records management system. As a result, individual files can now be located in just seconds
compared to the average 24 hours that used to take before the project. This constitutes a significant
improvement, as the Archive processes an average of 20,000 inquiries per month. The reorganization of the
archive is also expected to reduce the time required to grant pension benefits and to reduce litigation costs
associated with lost files.

§        Pension Reform Policies: One of the conclusions of the Mid-Term Review was that policy analysis


                                                      - 13 -

regarding the impact of the ongoing pension reform was an important area of intervention. Issues of
particular interest included limited coverage--due to the continuous increase in the informal economy and
the large numbers of elderly poor lacking social security coverage--as well as the increasing costs in the
fully funded pension scheme, the possible measures to reduce the costs, and the consequence of such
measures. It was agreed that these issues were to be analyzed and discussed with other partners such as
Social Security Secretariat, the Private Pension Funds Administration (AFJP), and the Ministry of
Economy. The World Bank's PROST model (on pension systems) was introduced to ANSES and the
partners and subsequently used to model alternative scenarios. As part of this activity, the Bank agreed to
fund the Social Security Secretariat and provide it with some basic computer equipment to ameliorate the
serious deficiencies in terms of the resources it administers. Other activities that received support from the
Program include the development of a website for the Secretariat (www.seguridadsocial.gov.ar) and the
conceptual design of a new independent worker retirement regime.

§        Litigation Study: A study on the causes of litigation was added in 1998 to address the growing
problems in this area. Outcomes included a case-management strategy and an analysis of the profile of
existing court cases in order to develop strategies for resolving pending claims and preventing new cases
from being filed. Results from the study indicated that the largest number of court cases were those
challenging the government's authority to change the index in the calculation of pensions. Any resolution to
the settlement of existing court cases and preventing additional cases from being filed was obviously
beyond ANSES' powers, thus proving to be one of the most difficult challenges to tackle as part of
ANSES' modernization process. Significant progress toward addressing litigation issues took place in the
past year. In March 2005, the Supreme Court declared a decree passed in 2000 that required that all court
sentences against ANSES had to be reviewed by the Supreme Court as unconstitutional. The elimination of
this requirement, which extended litigation for years, is expected to significantly expedite the resolution of
pending litigation cases. In addition, the indexation of pensions that had been in effect since 1996 limiting
increases in pensions was also declared unconstitutional in May 2005. With the legal impediments out of
the way, ANSES has set in motion an aggressive campaign to clear the backlog of pending claims,
although progress will be limited by the level of public resources allocated to ANSES in the national
budget.

§        Unified Family-Allowance Payment System (Sistema Único de Asignaciones Familiares, SUAF):
The Family-Allowance payment system is an employer contribution-based, per-child family allowance
program administered by ANSES. Under the previous system, family allowances for most employees were
paid by their employers, who then deducted these payments from the payroll taxes that they otherwise owed
to the government. This arrangement had led to abuses and fraud, as some workers had jobs with multiple
employers, or had spouses who were also employed, thus leading to duplicate payments. Likewise, some
employers failed to pay family contributions to their workers, while still deducting them from the taxes they
owed to the government. Under the newly designed Unified Family-Allowance Payment System (Sistema
Único de Asignaciones Familiares, SUAF), ANSES makes all payments for family allowances directly to
the beneficiaries, thus ensuring that workers receive their corresponding family allowances. The new
system also avoids double payments, thus reducing the overall cost of the allowances to the state.
Migration to the new system began in May 2003. It currently covers 540,000 out of the 1.5 million total
eligible beneficiaries. It is anticipated that the new system will be fully implemented during 2006. During
the period July-September 2005, the SUAF have yield average monthly savings of US$380,000, equivalent
to over US$4.5 million in annual savings.

§        Reengineering of Payment Processes: ANSES payment systems did not adequately control funds
through the payment process and did not provide payment history for each beneficiary. As part of the
reengineering of payment processes supported under this activity, a Payment Systems Card (Smart Card)


                                                       - 14 -

was introduced in January 1998 for the payment of retirement benefits, which brought substantial agility to
the payment process.

§       Y2K: In 1999, ANSES concentrated its efforts on the Y2K preparedness project. A major
remediation project was undertaken and successfully executed to ensure that the agency's critical systems
would continue to function normally during the transition to the new century. Working closely with other
departments of ANSES, Business Resumption Plans were also developed to guard against any contingency,
had ANSES day­to-day operations been adversely affected by Y2K-related problems. The entire project
was planned and executed under a great deal of pressure to meet the year 2000 deadline and was completed
on time, within budget, and all project objectives were achieved. Additional benefits realized from
successful execution of this project include: improved systems documentation; a very comprehensive and
up-to-date inventory of systems in production; and, marked improvement in the overall knowledge and
understanding of the architecture and internal as well as external system interfaces.

§       Other activities that received financial support under this component include the preparation of
SINTyS (National System for Tax and Social Identification - Sistema de Identificación Nacional
Tributario y Social; Loan No. 4459-AR), as well as the configuration of a consolidated database for
recipients of social programs (Base Única de la Seguridad Social, BUSS). This database, which is the
result of the cooperation with SINTyS and other government agencies, is a key instrument to enhance the
effectiveness of social programs. In addition, the Program supported the reformulation of the Strategic
Plan 2002-2005 in preparation to the design of the follow-up operation, ANSES-II.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's institutional development impact has been high, contributing toward the modernization of one
of the largest public sector institutions in Argentina, both in terms of the volume of social expenditure it
manages as well as the population it serves. In particular, the ANSES-I operation has supported the
transformation of ANSES, from being the epitome of the Leviathan public agency with no customer-service
culture to a customer-centered operation. Under the project, the agency has also taken an important step
towards institutional effectiveness in redesigning the critical processes of organizational reforms. The
project has also supported institution building within ANSES through the development of an integrating
vision and mission and the establishment of basic processes and systems supporting vertical and horizontal
integration, set up an infrastructure to expand access to services, and started addressing some of its most
pressing problems, such as fraud and error detection. By supporting the conformation of critical
databases--such as the active workers database and the family allowances system--that provide critical
information in an accurate and timely manner, the program has contributed toward a more efficient and
transparent administration of Argentina's pension system and key social benefits. Likewise, by exchanging
beneficiary data with other institutions­ReNaPer, AFIP and SINTyS--ANSES has created an important
social security information network--i.e., the constitution of a Single Social Security Database
(BUSS)--and contributed toward developing a mechanism for check-and-balances among key government
agencies.

The modernization of ANSES has been key in improving the country's overall efficiency, effectiveness and
transparency in fiscal resource management, as its budget account for a significant share of total federal



                                                    - 15 -

expenses--i.e., 37.4 percent of total federal government expenditure in 2005, equivalent to about
two-thirds of total federal social expenditure in Argentina. Improvements in service delivery have also had
a broad impact, as ANSES reaches over seven million citizens--equivalent to 20 percent of the population.
In particular, it manages social programs for approximately 3.6 million citizens----including pensions,
family allowances programs, unemployment and disability funds and other social protection programs for
the poor, including the Heads of Household Program, Single System for Family Allowances (SUAF) and
the Single System for Unemployment (SUDE). ANSES administers several social security systems like
pensions (Law No. 24.241), unemployment benefits (Law No 24.013) and family allowances (Law No
24.714), among others. In some cases, ANSES only transfers budgetary resources for social programs (e.g.
Heads of Households Program), without actually managing these programs. In other cases, ANSES pays
benefits on behalf of other public sector institutions at the federal level (e.g. pension funds for the judicial
sector). Most importantly, ANSES administers the public pension pillar, which represents more than 60
percent of its expenditure and covers over 3.1 million beneficiaries. Thus, by improving the targeting of
public pensions and other social benefits through reduced fraud and errors, the ANSES-I operation has had
a direct impact on fiscal resource management in Argentina. Likewise, by improving customer service for
ANSES beneficiaries, the ANSES-I operation has had a considerable impact on improving the quality of
life of vulnerable sectors of the population, such as the elderly and social security beneficiaries.

On a broader scale, it is important to note that ANSES illustrates one of the few examples of a major
public agency overhaul in Argentina. During the reform period of the 1990s, Argentina underwent a drastic
redefinition of the role of state--the so-called `first generation' reforms--including major strides toward
privatization, market deregulation, and decentralization. Often with the support of the Bank and the IADB,
Argentina also undertook a number of institutional improvements--most notably in the areas of financial
management, auditing and internal controls--that went hand-in-hand with substantial improvements in
information technology. However, the impact of these reforms only went so far and largely focused on
downsizing rather than on `reinventing' the state to provide services in an efficient and transparent manner.
With the support of this operation, ANSES has been one of the few agencies of Argentina's public
sector--and arguably the most notable one--embarking on a process of reform and institutional
transformation, which has yielded measurable improvements in efficiency, customer service, and
transparency.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Political and macroeconomic instability: Argentina's unstable political and macroeconomic environment in
the late 1990s has been a negative factor in its implementation. Political instability translated into frequent
changes in the agency's administration, while worsening economic conditions resulted in the lack of
adequate budgetary allocations, which slowed down project implementation.                 Not surprisingly, the
economic collapse of December 2001, which unleashed one of the deepest economic, institutional and
political crises affecting the country in its recent history, also affected the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Lack of continuity in ANSES management: Project implementation was clearly damaged by the frequent
changes     in   management.     Top     management      positions--i.e.,    executive   director and    general
manager--changed thirteen times during the life of the project. Three consecutive changes in top
management positions took place between December 2001 and January 2002, as ANSES was not spared
from the high political volatility that ensued after the initiation of the crisis in December 2001. The frequent
changes had a detrimental effect on project implementation, as each administration revised the activities
being financed under the project according to its own priorities. As a result, the project ended up financing



                                                       - 16 -

an extremely flexible set of activities--particularly as part of the institutional development
component--over the life of the project, as opposed to the set of activities that were envisioned originally.
The Action Plans agreed with the Bank on an annual basis as well as the Mid-term Review were useful in
providing some structuring for the revised project activities, helping compensate for the disruptions in the
project's conceptual and strategic continuity resulting from the frequent changes in management that took
place until early 2002.

Lack of adequate budgetary allocations: As mentioned earlier, the project's budgetary allocation was
reduced as a result of tight budgetary conditions, which slowed down project implementation, particularly
during the 1999 and 2001. During 1999, the scarce funds that were available were redirected to finance
activities aimed at getting the agency ready for the year Y2K transition, slowing project implementation
even further.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Uneven support for the reform process: The Program was off to an excellent start, supporting the reform
program that was originally conceived by ANSES' management in 1995. Benefiting from a strong
ownership on the part of the borrower, the project took off with great momentum, with key activities being
completed during the first year of implementation, including the implementation of the Fraud Control Unit,
the review of individual files based on group risk levels, the launching of the UDAIs, the reengineering of
ANSES' critical processes and the development of an ICT plan. However, when this administration left
ANSES in early 1998, the more-in-depth process of cultural transformation was still incomplete. The
departure of the reform-minded management team constituted a serious setback for the project, as
successive administrations did not actively support--and even undermined--the efforts done by the early
ANSES reformers. The frequent changes in administrations resulted in constantly changing priorities.
Reflecting the agency's own muddling through, the activities financed under the project were often revised
and, having lost its original footprint, implementation slowed down and even stalled. ANSES'
modernization program--and consequently the ANSES-I operation--did not get back on track until
January 2002, when a second reform-minded administration brought renewed momentum to the agency's
reform process, setting in motion a second wave of cultural and institutional transformation, which,
fortunately, has been sustained for over three years.

Uneven level of governance: As clearly shown by the implementation of the ANSES-I operation as well as
reform programs worldwide, the strong support from powerful and capable `champions' is a necessary
condition to achieve in-depth institutional transformation. While the ANSES-I operation benefited from
having these champions during the first and last stages of implementation, the agency's governance was
seriously weakened during other periods. ANSES governance was particularly weak during the first half of
2000, when ANSES organizational structure was modified and the post of the General Manager replaced
with a six-member Board of Directors. The lack of governance during this period, which coincided with a
period of transition within the Bank as well, put the project at serious risk.

Contrasting reform strategies: The two reform-minded administrations--i.e., the first and the current
one--are to be credited with the modernization of ANSES. It is interesting to note that the two
administrations adopted very different strategies toward institutional reform, which can be contrasted as
follows:

         a) Exogenous or endogenous change: The management team that masterminded the original
reform strategy came from the private sector, with three out of the top four managers being newly hired
from the private sector, and only two out of the eight managers in the next rank being ratified in their posts.
This management team approached ANSES in a manner similar to a `hostile corporate take-over.' This



                                                    - 17 -

approach is particularly well illustrated by the take-over of ANSES computer center, a major center of
corruption within the agency, which was forcefully occupied by staff that had the confidence of the
management accompanied by a large number of police agents. However, the management team responsible
for conceiving the original reform strategy left the agency too soon, before the in-depth transformation was
achieved. This constituted a serious setback in the implementation of the project, as there was not sufficient
ownership of the reform process within the ANSES bureaucracy to ensure its sustainability. It is important
to note that the second part of the reform plan--the so-called in-depth transformation of
ANSES--delineated a clear strategy for building ownership within the agency and internalizing the reform
program. Had this administration remained in office for a longer time period, this administration may have
succeeded not only in designing a reform blueprint for the ANSES but also in implementing it.

         In contrast, the current ANSES administration has set in motion the ongoing process of
institutional transformation, relying primarily on ANSES' own human resources. Drawing on much the
original reform blueprint, the current administration has built support for the reform efforts both within the
agency's bureaucracy and its constituencies. The current period has also been characterized by the strong
role of the Executive Director, who has been intimately involved in the day-to-day operation of the agency
as well as its medium-term reform program. Periodic rotation of top managers, assigning them to other
first-line positions (gerencias) has helped develop a more integrated and comprehensive view of the agency
by the management team, although perhaps at the expense of sacrificing continuity and increasing learning
costs. In addition, the current administration has effectively capitalized on the creativity and know-how of
field personnel by encouraging their participation and supporting their initiatives. As an illustration, staff
members from eight UDAIs were given support to develop their own concept regarding a computer system
that automatically determines retirement benefits (Sistema de Iniciación de Cómputo y Ajuste - SICA).
This system is already being deployed in all attention centers around the country. The strategy adopted by
the current ANSES administration to `reform from within,' coupled with its longer tenure, has been
successful in developing a strong ownership for the reform process within ANSES bureaucracy, and made
its sustainability more likely.

         b) Sources of know-how ­ consultant firms or individual consultants?: The two administrations
responsible for the modernization of ANSES also had very different philosophies in their approach toward
obtaining expertise. The original management team favored highly reputable international consultant firms.
These firms were responsible for producing the first set of in-depth diagnosis studies and the reengineering
of key processes. Although of undisputable high quality, these products were associated with a hefty price
tag and a resistance on the part of the ANSES bureaucracy. Alternatively, the current ANSES
administration relied mainly on individual consultants working under the supervision of ANSES personnel.
The advantage of this approach has been a more reduced cost as well as the more fluid assimilation of the
consultants and their products into the agency's day-to-day operations. The main downside has been the
difficulty of effectively managing large numbers of consultants--296 individual consultants were being
financed in 2004 alone--and the threat that such a large number of external consultants pose to medium
and long-term sustainability. To manage the large number of consultants, ANSES Personnel Unit, in
collaboration with the Bank team, developed a system to monitor attendance--roll was taken twice a day at
random times--and assigned clear responsibility for the supervision of individual consultants to managers
within ANSES permanent structure. This system was considered to be a `best practice' by the Bank's
procurement expert in the Buenos Aires field office. In the case of ANSES-I, the threat to sustainability
was not as severe, as the majority of external consultants performed data entry functions rather than
product development. Nevertheless, the large number of consultants was a contentious issue, which
generated significant tension between the Bank team and ANSES management during supervision.

Distinguishing anti-corruption from reform efforts: An important factor contributing to the lack of


                                                     - 18 -

ownership among the ANSES bureaucracy during the initial wave of reform was the strong emphasis place
by the management team on fraud and corruption as part of the reform program. As it was later
corroborated as part of the random review of 5,000 case files by the Australian Social Security Agency, the
distortions in pension benefits resulted mainly from neutral errors--with no significant net monetary impact
for ANSES--while corruption, although deeply rooted in some `pockets' such as the computer center and
some field offices, was not widely disseminated among the agency. Not clearly distinguishing between
modernization and anti-corruption efforts generated a strong distrust toward the management team within
ANSES bureaucracy and promoted a lack of ownership of the reform program.

Pulse-taking of the agency's performance through its constituencies: The current ANSES administration
has succeeded in establishing a fluid communication with the agency's constituencies. Through a newly
established advising board with representation from associations of retirees from around the country (
Órgano Consultivo), ANSES receives feedback on its performance through monthly meetings. In addition,
participation of ANSES' top administrator in weekly TV and radio programs in which the audience calls in
with specific questions has helped him humanize and improve the agency's image among its constituencies,
as well as break the insulation often experienced by top management.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The ANSES-I loan amounted to US$20 million, with an additional US$20 million in counterpart funds
from a co-financed IDB/IBRD adjustment Provincial Pension Reform loan (Loan 4116-AR, 1997). (The
Bank financed US$300 million and the IDB US$320 million to support Argentina's pension reform, of
which US$20 million were to be assigned to ANSES for institutional strengthening to be used as
counterpart funds for the ANSES-I operation). Cost tables in the Project Documents (see Technical Annex,
pp. 18, 22-30) focused mainly on the cost per component, the share of Bank's financing, and procurement
categories (the standard cost table distinguishing between local and foreign was not included). Thus, the
cost tables included in this ICR reflect these differences (see Annex 2.a and b).

Overall project costs were larger than anticipated by roughly US$2.5 million (see Annex 2.a). In addition,
Component 2--Improvement of Client Service Quality ­was financed from ANSES' operational budget.
The actual cost of the individual components exhibit some differences from the original estimates. Most
notably, the cost of Component 3--Institutional Strengthening--was 45 percent higher than anticipated.
Conversely, the cost of the remaining components--i.e., Fraud and Error Control, the Transfer of
Provincial Pension Funds, and the costs of the Project's Administration Unit and UNOPS--lower than
anticipated by 12, 57, 6 and 17 percent, respectively. As mentioned earlier, an additional component to
address Y2K-related vulnerabilities, with a cost of US$3 million--was added to the operation in 1999.
Although it was anticipated that the cost of this component would be financed under the Y2K Loan (Loan
No. 4423-AR) and eventually reimbursed to ANSES, it ultimately had to be absorbed by the ANSES-I
operation. The costs of consultants were 10 percent higher than originally anticipated, while those
corresponding to the purchase of computer equipment were 20 percent lower (see Annex 2.b).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the achievements of the ANSES-I operation is deemed likely. The main risk factor is
that the reforms undertaken under ANSES-I be reversed after changes in leadership. While to continue to
move forward with the modernization of ANSES reform would clearly require the presence of a
reform-minded administration, the progress made so far is likely to endure changes in leadership. Unlike in
1998, when the reform process was just at its onset, it now seems to have achieved a degree of maturity and
insertion within the ANSES bureaucracy that is likely to permit its survival under a more



                                                      - 19 -

passive--although not purposely destructive--leadership. As an illustration of ANSES' institutional
resilience, it is important to note that, despite the upheaval brought by the 2001 crisis, ANSES not only
continued to pay pensions but was also able to speedily set in place the necessary logistics for the
implementation of the Heads of Household Program created in April 2002 by the Duhalde administration as
one of the first measures to control the crisis.

There are several factors that both mitigate and exacerbate the risk associated with changes in leadership.
In addition to the strong ownership of ANSES' mission and vision within the institution, several factors
help reduce this risk including: i) the accreditation of IS0 norms of various procedures; ii) demand-induced
pressures for reform resulting from improved in service delivery; iii) heightened role of public consultation
organisms; iv) the approval of a follow-up operation; and, highly important; v) the tacit oversight being
done by other agencies, such as SINTyS and AFIP. On the other hand, the institutional weakness of the
Social Security Secretariat vis-à-vis ANSES exacerbates it.

Accreditation of IS0 norms: As a way toward improving customer-service processes, ANSES has obtained
ISO 9001:2000 accreditation, the Quality Management Standard developed by the International
Organization of Standardization (ISO), for two of its call centers (UDATs Rosario and Tucumán) and is
now in the process of obtaining accreditation for the quality customer-service procedures to be implemented
in all UDAIs. The accreditation by external sources, such as ISO, not only helps improve internal
processes, but also contributes toward their sustainability, as loosing accreditation clearly flags the reversal
of previous achievements.

Demand-induced pressures for reform: The drastic improvements in service delivery achieved by ANSES
and, consequently, its overall public image, have raised expectations among ANSES clients and civil
society in general--for example, a recent study conducted by the Sub-secretariat of Public Management (
Gestión Pública) indicates that over 50 percent of ANSES' clients anticipate further improvements in the
agency's performance. Thus, a reversal in current levels of service is expected to generate a public
reaction. The adoption of governance tools, such as the Public Letter of Commitment, will also help
monitor levels of service delivery and the agency' overall performance, flagging any decline in current
levels of service.

Public consultation organisms: ANSES Advisory Body (Órgano Consultivo de ANSES), which is
constituted by 103 representatives from all the organizations of retirees and pensioners (Federaciones de
Jubilados y Pensionados), has been considerably strengthened under the current ANSES administration.
Both the quarterly meetings of the overall body, and the monthly meetings held by its Executive Board
include working meetings with ANSES' top management. Likewise, local centers, which have received
financial support under the project to enhance their capacity to provide technical advice to people
approaching retirement, are now more vital within their communities. Both the advisory board and local
centers are likely to play a key role in mobilizing public opinion in the case of a significant decline in the
level of services.

Follow-up operation: Another important factor in ensuring the sustainability of the progress achieved under
this operation is the approval of a follow-up operation. Approved in July 2005, Institutional Strengthening
ANSES-II focuses on the consolidation of the reforms started under ANSES-I, including continuing to
enhance access to services and improve fraud and error detection. It will also continue to support the
institutional and cultural transformation of ANSES through an in-depth reengineering of selected processes,
functions and products to help create a dynamic, adaptive corporate culture geared toward greater
efficiency and transparency for enhanced service-delivery.




                                                     - 20 -

Tacit oversight of national government agencies: Under SINTyS' sponsorship, a Technical Board (mesa
técnica) with representatives from AFIP, ANSES and ReNaPeR has been constituted to help build
consensus among the major players at the national level over key ICT issues. An important outcome of this
technical board has been an Agreement of Understanding in September 2004) subscribed between the legal
advisors of these three key government entities that delineates the basic strategy for the exchange of
information between them.       The increasingly systematic exchange of information between these key
government agencies would help detect deterioration in ANSES databases, perhaps the most important in
the country.

Asymmetries of power between ANSES and the Social Security Secretariat: Although the Secretariat has
the responsibility of the design and supervision of the social security system, including its coverage,
financing and oversight, it has experienced a continuous decline in its budget and staffing. (In fact, the
Secretariat is staffed by about 12 civil servants and about 30 consultants, largely financed by the ANSES-I
operation and the agencies under the Secretariat's supervision). Given these weaknesses, the Secretariat has
exercised its oversight function of ANSES only to a very limited extent, resulting in an accountability gap
between the two entities. This gap is being addressed by ANSES-II, which includes a specific component
aimed at strengthening the Secretariat's oversight capacity, as well as its ability to manage the social
security system at large.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank's team in assisting the Borrower in identifying, preparing and appraising the
operation has been satisfactory. It correctly identified the window of opportunity that opened up with the
reform of the national pension system and the presence of a reform-minded administration in charge of
ANSES. Drawing from the Bank's wide experience in public sector modernization, the Bank team
identified key actions to be supported by the project and designed an operation that reflected the lessons
learned worldwide. Drawing from its extended network of international contacts, the Bank facilitated the
exchange of experiences between ANSES and other social security agencies worldwide. As noted earlier,
the project's design was adequate, except for the institutional development component, which was not as
well defined as the other three project components.

7.2 Supervision:
Overall, the Bank's supervision for this operation is deemed satisfactory. Given the lack of supervision
reports--Aide Memoirs, Back-to Office reports and Project Status Reports--in the project's electronic file
corresponding to the initial stages of the project's implementation, it is difficult to assess the quality of
supervision during that period. While supervision was technically strong from early 2000 onwards, the
assignment of responsibilities within the Bank was unclear--two task managers shared responsibility for
the project--which weakened supervision efforts, as the client had two interlocutors representing the
Bank's views rather than one. The effectiveness of supervision increased substantially from early 2001
onwards. During this stage, the Bank's supervision team exhibited both strong technical skills and
commitment, developing a close working relationship with the agency's top administrator, which
contributed to the project's turn-around.

In March 2000, the project was rated `Unsatisfactory' in terms of both the achievement of project
development objectives and its implementation progress. A Midterm Review was conducted between April



                                                    - 21 -

and May 2000 to determine whether the project was to be closed or restructured. At that point, it was
decided to continue with the project and `to make­up the delay with concentrated effort.' Although the
project eventually turned around in early 2002, it is not clear whether the project had enough merits to
justify its continuation at Mid-term. While the activities that were part of the first three components had
been successfully implemented during the first year of project implementation, progress had come to a halt
due to frequent changes in ANSES management, waning support for the reform program, and lack of
counterpart funding. With the benefit of hindsight, it is clear that the negative environment continued until
early 2002, when the current ANSES administration took office. The strong ownership for the project
exhibited by this administration as well as the implementation capacity it demonstrated fully warranted the
granting of the last three closing-date extension--to December 2003, December 2004, and June 2005,
respectively. These extensions gave the current ANSES administration enough time to carry out the second
phase of ANSES reform program and, consequently, ensured the success of the operation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance has been satisfactory. In particular, it is worth noting that the Bank
(Country Management Unit and sector unit) effectively integrated this project with other operations in
Bank's portfolio, creating positive synergies within the portfolio and contributing to their mutual
strengthening. Specifically, including cross-conditionality regarding ANSES-I as part of the First
Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 7075-AR; SAL-I) approved in 2001, helped ANSES maintain
focus on the reform process during the 2001-2002 period and prevent the reversal of the progress made so
far during a period of utmost political and economic upheaval. Likewise, the State Modernization Project
(Loan No. 4423-AR) approved in 1998 helped pilot participatory mechanisms in ANSES and the
introduction of modern management practices. Finally, the SINTyS operation (Loan No. 4459-AR),
approved in 1999, has supported the systematic exchange of information between ANSES and other
government agencies, fostering cooperation and oversight across government agencies.                  Giving
responsibility for both operations to the same task manager also proved to be an effective strategy, as it
ensured a close coordination between the two operations. The Bank also made the correct decision to
maintain support for the operation (despite the difficulties associated with the economic crisis), essentially
waiting for the new Administration which took office in 2002 to demonstrate its commitment to ANSES
modernization.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The government's performance during preparation was highly satisfactory. As the loan supported
ANSES' own reform program, project preparation received the full support of the agency's top
management, who had a strong ownership for the project. In addition, project preparation benefited from
high-quality diagnosis studies that had been sponsored by ANSES management as part of their own
diagnosis of the agency's weaknesses.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

Although highly uneven, the overall government's performance is rated as satisfactory. It is important to
stress that the merits for the modernization of ANSES have to be attributed primarily to the 1995 ANSES
administration, which correctly diagnosed ANSES' main weaknesses and devised the conceptual blueprint
for the reform program, and the current administration, which provided a strong leadership and a vision for
the transformation of the agency, taking ANSES to a level of performance that makes it a model for the
modernization of the rest of Argentina's public sector. While the 1995 and current ANSES administrations
gave their full, unwavering support to the Project, other administrations were less enthusiastic toward its




                                                   - 22 -

implementation.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

While ANSES Executive Director was the ultimate person responsible for project execution, a Project
Administration Unit (PAU) was responsible for accounting, administration and procurement procedures, as
well as the day-to-day administration of the project. The performance of the PAU has been highly
satisfactory. Staffed with highly capable and dedicated professionals, the PAU has fulfilled all its
responsibilities, including monitoring the execution and evaluation of project activities, monitoring the
availability of funds from all financing sources, keeping records of all procurement operations, ensuring
compliance with Bank guidelines, monitoring compliance with legal covenants, maintaining records for all
activities, managing contracting of technical assistance and consulting services under the project, preparing
and submitting to the Bank semi-annual progress reports and collaborating with the preparation of this
ICR. The project's financial management was also satisfactory. Moreover, the permanency of the PAU
staff was an important factor ensuring a minimum level of continuity throughout the life of the project
despite the frequent changes in ANSES administration. As in other Bank projects, there were delays in the
preparation of the annual project audit reports from AGN (public sector national auditing authorities),
which were later regularized.

The project contracted UNOPS as an external administrator. The Bank granted a `No Objection' to this
contract and financed the administrative costs of UNOPS. Under the contract, UNDP presented the Loan
withdrawal applications to the Bank, presented the justification of expenditures and made project payments.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory for the reasons outlined above. However, it
is important to point out that overall borrower's performance from early 2002 onward has been critical to
the operation's success, as the factors threatening the success of the project were successfully addressed
and project implementation took renewed momentum.

8. Lessons Learned

There are several lessons that can be learned from this operation:

Among the key factors needed to ensure sustainability is the continuity of reform-minded
administrators. The short tenure of the management team responsible for setting in motion the first wave
of reform in ANSES disrupted the momentum for change and eroded the sustainability of the process. It
took several years before the second wave of reform was set in motion, when another reform-minded
administration took office and remained for a considerable time span.

The departure of `champions' clearly endangers the sustainability of modernization processes. The
importance of having strong advocates for the operation as well as the risks related to their potential
departure was correctly identified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). It was even noted that, in the
event of a significant change, the Bank would reserve the right to cancel the loan if it considered that the
replacements were not willing or able to continue implementation as planned. After the original
management team left the agency, the reform process did indeed lose its momentum and did not regain it
until 2002.

Finding adequate mechanisms to ensure sustainability has to be a priority at the onset of the
modernization process rather than an afterthought. As noted in the PAD, there is a tendency for



                                                    - 23 -

borrowers to concentrate on the here-and-now and leave longer term planning and issues of sustainability
for later. Although this risk was correctly identified at the design stage, the focus on ensuring sustainability
waned as project implementation proceeded and the team of administrators that conceived the project was
replaced, for several years, by a succession of administrations with less commitment toward reform.

It is important to distinguish between modernization and anti-corruption efforts when tackling an
agency's overhaul. Focusing excessively on corruption can weaken modernization efforts, as a witch-hunt
atmosphere can generate distrust within the agency's bureaucracy, creating an unfavorable environment for
the acceptance of other modernization initiatives.

It is important to accurately diagnose corruption--both levels and types--before embarking on a
full-fledged anticorruption campaign. In the case of ANSES, the review of 5,000 randomly selected cases
by an independent party showed that corruption was less widespread than originally perceived. Instead,
human error was identified as the main factor explaining the granting of inadequate retirement benefits
(moreover, benefits had been both under or overestimated in roughly as many cases, showing no systematic
bias). Alternatively, there were pockets within the organization where corruption was deeply ingrained. A
more focused anti-corruption strategy aimed at eradicating these pockets would have been more effective
than the one that was implemented, in which corruption was perceived as being widespread throughout the
organization.

There are different strategies with respect to agency modernization, particularly in terms of the use of
own personnel. In the first wave of reform, most of the top management was brought in from outside the
agency. While the newcomers were highly qualified and brought in a fresh perspective, there was a strong
resistance on the part of the agency's bureaucracy, which perceived the reform efforts as a hostile takeover.
In the second wave of reform, a more balanced approach was taken, blending new blood with in-house
expertise.

While consultant firms can provide a significant contribution to the modernization efforts, there is
also the danger of generating a dependency on consulting firms and/or resistance on the part of the
bureaucracy. Therefore, institutionalization should be a high priority when consultant firms play a central
role in modernization efforts.

It is important to identify measurable landmarks to demonstrate the progress made as well as ensure
its sustainability. In the case of ANSES, the Public Letter of Commitment (Carta Compromiso con el
Ciudadano) and the certification of processes according to widely recognized norms--i.e., ISO­have
provided clear measures of the agency's improved performance. Likewise, should they ever be abandoned
in the future, they will also indicate the corresponding reversal.

Purposely encouraging bottom-up participation can foster innovation, enhance ownership and
strengthen sustainability. For example, the conception and development of the SICA--automatic system
for the computation and adjustment of retirement benefits--by staff of the field service units (UDAIs)
illustrates the potential contribution that can be made by the lower ranks of the agency's bureaucracy. In
just nine months, a team composed of eight staff members from UDAIs across the country and two
computer programmers has conceived and developed a computer system that automatically determines
retirement benefits, which is already being deployed in all attention centers around the country. The next
operation should consider including financing for grass-root projects to function as an incubator of new
ideas and bottom-up initiatives.




                                                     - 24 -

Building a direct relation with the public can help top agency managers stay in touch with their
clients and better assess their needs and the performance of the agency. The participation of ANSES'
top administrator in weekly TV and radio programs in which the audience calls in with specific questions
has helped him humanize and improve the agency's image among its constituencies, as well as break the
insulation often experienced by top management.

Rotating managers among the various divisions can help management develop a more holistic
understanding of the overall agency. This has been a common practice in ANSES for the past four years,
which has proved effective in promoting cooperation and weakening turf battles.

Public agencies can play an important role in revitalizing their constituencies. Through a newly
established advising board with representation from more than 100 associations of retirees from around the
country, ANSES has effectively supported the activities of its primary constituencies by providing them
with basic computing equipment and other support. The funding of grass-root initiatives proposed by the
associations of retirees should be taken into consideration for the next loan.

Losing focus becomes a challenge in institutional development projects with a longer life span.
Although the project was originally designed as a limited intervention, it later lost some of its original
focus. As priorities and needs evolved, the project often supported an incremental model of modernization
rather than the objectives that were originally prioritized.

Maintaining and even renewing the impetus of modernization efforts remains a challenge, particularly
when reaching performance thresholds. As part of the new operation, it will be important to identify
motivators that can unleash creativity and enthusiasm within the agency's management and bureaucracy to
fuel another wave of modernization.

It is important to distinguish between potential and actual savings when designing monitoring and
impact indicators. In the cases of ANSES-I, for many years the focus was solely on potential savings,
which were not necessarily being realized as the elimination of benefits was beyond ANSES' jurisdiction or
was affected by decisions of the judicial system. This strategy was modified in early 2004, when the focus
shifted toward actual savings rather than potential ones. This shift has resulted not only in a more
representative measure of the project's impact, but has also resulted in an improvement of error and fraud
detection mechanisms, as well as the reengineering of operational processes.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's contribution provides a detailed history of the project's implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Although US$20 million in counterpart funds came from IADB, these funds were lent as part of the
Provincial Pension Reform operation, which received both IBRD and IADB financing. The IADB had no
participation in the implementation of the ANSES-I operation.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

The individuals interviewed in the course of the preparation of this report include:




                                                     - 25 -

National Authorities
 Alfredo Conte-Grand,              Sergio Massa
   Secretary of Social Security      Executive Director of ANSES

ANSES Management                   Representatives of Centers of Pensioners
 Eduardo Adelinet                   Horacio Fernández
 Miguel Fernández Pastor            Héctor Gómez
 Alberto Freire                     Ema Levaggi
 Cristina González                  María Elena Maggio
 Guillermo Malvicino                Iris Maina
 Alberto Mariuzzo
 Gustavo Morón

 Mabel Valcarce

Other ANSES Management and Staff   UDAIs
 Diego Castro                       Sergio Perucca, UDAI Mar del Plata
 Elisa Licata                       Daniel Carot, UDAI Río Gallegos
 Gustavo Lonegro                    Mario Castillo, UDAI San Rafael
 Ezequiel Lo Valvo                  Adriana Jaime, UDAI Río Cuarto
 Adriana Mazzuco                    Marcos Paris, UDAI Salta
 Lidia Neira                        Cristina Roberts, UDAI Reconquista
 Gustavo Xamena

Other Interviews
Alejandro Bramer Marcovick         Jorge Linskens
 Former Executive Director          Former ICT Manager
Jorge Omar Felippone               Javier Pereira,
 Former Executive Director          Former ANSES consultant
Edgar Genni                        Jorge San Martino
 Former Project Coordinator         Former Secretary of Social Security




                                        - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                Log Frame Matrix and Performance and Monitoring Benchmarks


         Output          Expected Outcome               Monitoring         Actual Outcome and
                             and Impact                  Indicators                Impact
Objective 1: Reduce undue payments to beneficiaries due to fraud errors in granting
benefits.
Beneficiary files       Reductions in program    Reductions of US$40     § Over US$200 million in
substantially corrected costs through the        million per year           total cumulative
                        elimination of detected                             potential savings from
                        frauds and errors.                                  fraud and error
                                                                            detection systems.
                                                                         § In March 2004, a more
                                                                            sophisticated
                                                                            methodology was
                                                                            adopted, which
                                                                            distinguishes between
                                                                            potential and actual
                                                                            savings--for example,
                                                                            illegitimate benefits are
                                                                            often reinstated by the
                                                                            courts.
                                                                         § In 2004, over US$3.5
                                                                            million in actual annual
                                                                            savings, of which
                                                                            US$2.4 and US$1.1
                                                                            million resulted from
                                                                            ex-ante and ex-post
                                                                            detention of error and
                                                                            fraud, respectively.
                                                                         § The quality and
                                                                            interconnectivity of
                                                                            ANSES' information
                                                                            has improved
                                                                            substantially, including
                                                                            the conformation of
                                                                            critical databases such
                                                                            as BUSS, Activos, and
                                                                            the SUAF.
Critical processes      Granting of benefits and Procedure manuals for   § Procedure manuals for
rationalized            payments following       all critical processes     all critical processes
                        clear rules and          written and in use.        written and in use.
                        guidelines, as specified                         § There has been
                        in procedure manuals.                               substantial progress
                                                                            toward the
                                                                            development of
                                                                            automatic processes
                                                                            for the determination of
                                                                            benefits, such as the
                                                                            SICA.
Fraud Control Unit set  The reductions           Fraud Control Unit fully§ Fraud Control Unit fully
up                      obtained are             operational by end of      operational by end of
                        sustainable              1999                       1997.
                                                                         § Decentralized fraud-
                                                                            control cells
                                                                            operational in 93
                                                                            UDAIs.




                                                  - 27 -

            Log Frame Matrix and Performance and Monitoring Benchmarks (cont.)

                            Expected
       Output            Outcome and              Monitoring        Actual Outcome and Impact
                             Impact               Indicators

Objective 2: Improve the quality of the service to the client (timely, efficient, and accurate,
with a minimum of effort from the client).
Full-service agencies Increased level of     140 agencies set up    § ANSES' service network
set up                client satisfaction                              consists of 240 service
                                             Reductions of days to     centers, including:
Payment and           Perception of          grant benefits to less    à 114 Integrated Attention
granting of services  equitable operation of than 30 days.                  Centers (UDAIs)
improved              the pension system                               à 10 Telephone Attention
                                             No delays on queries           Centers (UDATs),
Immediate access to                          by customers on           à 20 units dedicated to
clients to account                           accounts.                      serve the needs of
information                                                                 businesses (ULADEs;
                                             Number of visits by            and ULATs);
                                             clients to satisfy
                                             queries is reduced to     à 8 Mobile Attention Units

                                             one.                           (UDAMs);
                                                                       à 126 offices located

                                             99% of all                     throughout the country.
                                             transactions carried   § As of May 2005, 93% of all
                                             out in agencies           pensions were processed out
                                                                       by UDAIs and 7% through
                                                                       the UDATs. From now on,
                                                                       95% of pension applications
                                                                       will be channeled through
                                                                       ANSES' website and the
                                                                       remaining 5% through the
                                                                       UDAIs.
                                                                    § Backlog claims have
                                                                       decreased from over 85,000
                                                                       to 56,000 claims between
                                                                       2001 and 2004.
                                                                    § The average number of days
                                                                       to obtain retirement benefits
                                                                       within the public system has
                                                                       decreased from a pre-project
                                                                       average of 6 months to 58
                                                                       days in 2004.
                                                                    § Average waiting time at the
                                                                       orientation counter has
                                                                       decreased from 27 to 17
                                                                       minutes between 2001 and
                                                                       2004.
                                                                    § Level of client satisfaction
                                                                       has increased from 30 to
                                                                       43% between 2001 and
                                                                       2005.
                                                                    § ISO-9001 certification for
                                                                       quality assurance in two
                                                                       UDATs; two processes now
                                                                       being certified.
                                                                    § Letter of Public Commitment
                                                                       adopted in 2003, with more
                                                                       than 88% of compliance.
                                                                    § New formal complain
                                                                       channel fully operational.




                                                  - 28 -

            Log Frame Matrix and Performance and Monitoring Benchmarks (cont.)

                              Expected
       Output              Outcome and             Monitoring         Actual Outcome and Impact
                               Impact              Indicators

Objective 3: Reduce undue payments and improve the quality of services to provincial
pension fund beneficiaries.
Beneficiary files will  Reduced costs to the  Reductions of US$40    § 11 provincial funds fully
be substantially        provinces and the     million per year          absorbed by ANSES, with
corrected and           nation in general                               191,000 additional
absorbed into the                                                       beneficiaries incorporated to
national system.                                                        ANSES databases.
                                                                     § 1,100 files were found to be
                                                                        unreported deaths,
                                                                        representing annual savings
                                                                        of US$10.5 million
                                                                     § 15,000 files were eliminated
                                                                        due to age incompatibility,
                                                                        representing annual savings
                                                                        of US$14.1 million
                                                                     § An additional US$2.1 million
                                                                        annual savings resulted from
                                                                        cleaning up absorbed
                                                                        beneficiary files.
                                                                     § Recurrent savings resulting
                                                                        from the activities in this
                                                                        component amount to
                                                                        approximately US$12 million
                                                                        per year.
                        Increased level of    Quality of service as  § Beneficiaries from the
                        customer satisfaction for national              transferred provincial funds
                                              beneficiaries             have the same level of
                                                                        services as beneficiaries from
                                                                        the national public pension
                                                                        system.
Objective 4: Build the capacity of ANSES to adapt to change and fulfill its mandate.
Full control of the     Early tangible                               § The computer center was
Data Processing         success toward                                  taken over by the new
center                  taking control of                               ANSES management team
                        ANSES and                                       with police support in the
New design of critical  enhancing the                                   mid-1990s.
processes and           credibility of the                           § Critical processes have been
agencies                reform program.                                 re-engineered to support the
                                                                        `functional
                                                                        decentralization/normative
                                                                        centralization' of ANSES.
Management team         A management team     Steering Committee     § New organizational structure
trained                 with a clear          operational               in place.
                        delineation of                               § Monitoring system (Tablero
                        responsibilities and  Performance               de Control) in place, to
                        authorities and an    measures defined          monitor performance of
                        appropriate mix of                              operational units and field
                        skills                Internal accountability   service units.
                                                                     § Management received
                                                                        training in basic management
                                                                        principles and project
                                                                        supervision skills.




                                                   - 29 -

           Log Frame Matrix and Performance and Monitoring Benchmarks (cont.)

                           Expected
       Output            Outcome and               Monitoring         Actual Outcome and Impact
                            Impact                  Indicators

Objective 4: Build the capacity of ANSES to adapt to change and fulfill its mandate (cont.)
Ongoing internal      Common sense of         Satisfactory results of§ Intranet and extranet
communication         purpose and shared      internal survey           systems operational
campaign              values throughout                              § Internal Letter of
                      ANSES                                             Commitment (Carta de
                                                                        Compromiso Interna) has
                                                                        been adopted.
Management            Management able to      Plan and policies      § Management indicators
information system in delegate and monitor    prepared and agreed       (Tablero de Control) that
operation             by result                                         provides real time pulse-
                                                                        taking of the agency's
                                                                        performance at all levels of
                                                                        the organization.
New automated         User-defined and        ICT plan and policies  § Development and
systems and ICT       managed automated       prepared and agreed        implementation of ICT Plan
policies              systems; improved                              § Consolidated database
                      accountability          New systems                operational.
                                              introduced             § Average response time for
                                                                         electronic transactions
                                              Consolidated               decreased from 3 to less
                                              database operational       than 1 second with the
                                                                         migration to a new server in
                                                                         Sept. 2004, while increasing
                                                                         the number of transactions
                                                                         being processed.
New personnel         Motivated workforce     Human Resources        § Training Plan fully
management policies   working toward          policies defined           implemented.
and systems           ANSES objectives.                              § Career Plan developed.
                                              Performance            § Implementation of an
                                              appraisal system           integrated human resources
                                              introduced                 information system produced
                                                                         the first complete list of
                                              Workforce training         ANSES personnel--prior to
                                              tied to career path        the project, the number of
                                                                         staff working for ANSES was
                                                                         not clear, as there were large
                                                                         discrepancies between the
                                                                         payroll and human resources
                                                                         databases.
Financial             Financial information   Financial              § ANSES' module of SIDIF, the
Management system     available for efficient management system          national government's
in operation          decision making         operational with cost      financial administration
                                              data by cost center.       system, is in place.
                                                                     § Operational costs are low by
                                              Operational costs          international standards--less
                                              reduced by 10%             than 1.5% of total cost.




                                                    - 30 -

         Log Frame Matrix and Performance and Monitoring Benchmarks (cont.)

                         Expected
     Output            Outcome and           Monitoring        Actual Outcome and Impact
                          Impact             Indicators

Objective 4: Build the capacity of ANSES to adapt to change and fulfill its mandate (cont.)
Reorganized ANSES   Units work toward   All units have         § The number of central
                    ANSES objectives    objectives, clearly      administration operating units
                                        identified results and   has been reduced from 82 to
                                        measurable               47--equivalent to a 43%
                                        indicators of            reduction.
                                        performance; these     § A sophisticated set of
                                        aggregate upwards        planning and monitoring tools
                                        toward the               are fully operational,
                                        overarching ANSES        including:
                                        objectives.               à Annual Operational Plan
                                                                  à Strategic Plan 2002-
                                                                       2005
                                                                  à Performance Indicators
                                                                       (Indicadores de
                                                                       Desempeño) 2001-2005
                                                                       with monitoring on a
                                                                       monthly basis.
                                                               § New tools are being
                                                                 implemented to enhance
                                                                 ANSES' transparency and
                                                                 efficiency:
                                                                  à The Active Workers
                                                                       Database (Base de
                                                                       Activos) contains
                                                                       information on the work
                                                                       history of over 35 million
                                                                       active workers.
                                                                  à The time to detect
                                                                       deceased beneficiaries
                                                                       has been reduced from
                                                                       82 to less than 30 days,
                                                                       equiv. to savings of
                                                                       US$1.8 in 2004.
                                                                  à The implementation of a
                                                                       payment system of
                                                                       family allowances
                                                                       (SUAF), which is still
                                                                       partially implemented, is
                                                                       yielding US$4.5 millions
                                                                       in annual savings.
                                                                  à A database (BUSS)
                                                                       consolidates information
                                                                       on recipients of social
                                                                       programs.
                                                               § The consolidation of ANSES
                                                                 warehouses in a central
                                                                 archive and its reorganization
                                                                 resulted in a reduction of
                                                                 US$1.3 million in operating
                                                                 costs, considerable time
                                                                 savings and security
                                                                 enhancement.




                                             - 31 -

 Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                                                US$ million)


  Component                                      At Appraisal                               Actual

                                          IBRD    Borrower        Total    IBRD           Borrower             Total
                                                                                   BID     ANSES       Total


  1.   Fraud and Error Control             2.32          4.11      6.43      0.09   2.47       3.12     5.60    5.68

  2.   Improvement of Client Service
       Quality (*)                         2.73          1.92      4.65      0.00   0.00       0.00     0.00    0.00

  3.   Provincial Pension Fund
       Transfer                            5.73          0.67      6.40      1.90   0.00       0.76     0.76    2.66


  4.   Institutional Strengthening         6.95         12.75     19.70    12.91   14.42       1.25    15.68   28.59


  5.   Project Administration Unit         0.88          0.46      1.34      1.05   0.07       0.14     0.21    1.26


  6.   External Administration             1.40          0.10      1.50      1.02   0.00       0.22     0.22    1.24


  7.   Project Y2K                                                 0.00      3.04   0.00       0.00     0.00    3.04


  Total                                   20.00         20.00     40.00    20.00   16.97   5.50        22.47   42.47




Note (*): the costs for Component 2, Improvement of Client Service Quality, were ultimately paid by the ANSES operational
budget, but this component nevertheless remained an integral part of the project.



                                       (US$ million)

                                              At Appraisal                               Actual
                                     Procurement Method           Total      Procurement Method          Total
         Project Element              ICB    NCB      Other       Cost        ICB    NCB     Other       Cost

         1. Goods                     4.76              0.50        5.26       3.52             0.70      4.23

                                    (3.36)             (0.50)     (0.50)     (3.52)            (0.70)    (0.70)

         2. Consulting Services                        34.74      34.74       2.198            36.04     38.24

                                                     (16.14)     (16.14)    (1.775)          (14.00)    (15.77)

         Total                        4.76             35.24      40.00        5.72            36.75     42.47

          IBRD Financing            (3.36)           (16.64)     (20.00)     (5.30)          (14.70)    (20.00)




                                                             - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

NA




                                      - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/03/1996                5    TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL
                                             SECURITY ADMINI (1);
                                             INFORMATION
                                             TECHNOLOGY (1); FINANCE
                                             & ADMINISTRATI (1);
                                             RE-ENGINEERING (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/13/1996                6    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             SOCIAL SECURITY
                                             ADMINI (1);
                                             INFORMATION
                                             TECHNOLOGY (1);
                                             FINANCE &
                                             ADMINISTRATI (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             RE-ENGINEERING (1)

 Supervision

              05/23/1997                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             MANAGEMENT & TRAINING
                                             (1); INFORMATION MGT &
                                             TECH (1)
              12/18/1997                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              07/03/1998                5    TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL         S               S
                                             SECURITY ADMINI (1);
                                             INFORMATION
                                             TECHNOLOGY (1); FINANCE
                                             & ADMINISTRATI (1);
                                             RE-ENGINEERING (1)
              02/03/1999                4    TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL         S               S
                                             SECURITY ADMIN. (1);
                                             INFORMATION TECHN. (1);
                                             HUMAN RESOURCES (1)
              06/11/1999                3    TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL
                                             SECURITY EXPERT (1);
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEMS (1)
              12/02/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1); TEAM           U               U
                                             MEMBER (1)
              04/24/2000                5    TEAM LEADER (1); TEAM            U               S
                                             MEMBER (1); CONSULTANT
                                             (2); CONSUSLTANT (1)
              10/23/2000                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              03/05/2001                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)



                                              - 34 -

               03/05/2001              2    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
               03/05/2002              3    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                            OPERATIONS ASISTANT (1);
                                            STRATIGIC PLAN (1)
               10/22/2002              2    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                            OPERATIONS CONSULTANT
                                            (1)
               12/05/2003              6    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                            OPERATIONS (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            (1); PS/ STRATEGY (1); PS
                                            SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            N/A                            N/A
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   9.8                           30.
  Supervision                          120.1                         418.7
  ICR                                   15.2                           45.3
  Total                                145.1                           494




                                            - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

ANSES (2001-2005), Sistema de Medición de Desempeño 2001-2005, Oct. 2005, Ministerio de Trabajo,
   Argentina.
ANSES (2004), Carta de Compromiso con el Ciudadano 2004, Sept. 2004, Ministerio de Trabajo,
   Argentina.
ANSES (2004), Carta de Compromiso Interna, June 2004, Ministerio de Trabajo, Argentina.
ANSES (2004), Información Estadística, Año III No. 5, Dec. 2004, Ministerio de Trabajo, Argentina.
ANSES (2004), Informe de Gestión Feb. 2002-Feb. 2004, Ministerio de Trabajo, Argentina.
ANSES (2004), Informe de Gestión Feb. 2002-Mayo 2003, Ministerio de Trabajo, Argentina.
ANSES (2204), Informe de la Seguridad Social Año VI No. 3, 3rd quarter 2004, Ministerio de Trabajo,
   Argentina.
ANSES (2003), Carta de Compromiso con el Ciudadano 2003, March 2003, Ministerio de Trabajo,
   Argentina.
ANSES (1997-2005), Informes para la Evaluación Semestral del Proyecto de Asistencia Técnica para
   ANSES-I, Project Administration Unit, Ministerio de Trabajo, Argentina.
ANSES (2004), Evaluación Plan Operativo Annual, 4th quarter 2004, Ministerio de Trabajo, Argentina.
ANSES (2003, 2004), Plan Operativo Annual, 2003, 2004, Ministerio de Trabajo, Argentina.
ANSES (2002), Plan Estratégico 2002-2005, Ministerio de Trabajo, Argentina.
Secretaría de Seguridad Social (2003), Libro Blanco de la Previsión Social, May 2003, Ministerio de
   Trabajo, Argentina.
Sub-Secretaría de Gestión Pública (2005), Programa Carta Compromiso con el Ciudadano, Unidad Civil
   y Participación ­ Informe Final; Universidad Nacional de Tres de Febrero and Grupo Sofía, Serie de
   Investigaciones sobre Ciudadanía y Organismos Públicos, Jefatura de Gabinete, Argentina.
World Bank (2005), Project Appraisal Document­ Argentina: Institutional Strengthening of the National
   Social Security Administration (ANSES--II) Technical Assistance Loan; Report No. 31970-AR, 8
   June 2005, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (1996), Technical Annex ­ Argentina: National Pension Administration Technical
   Assistance Project; Report No. T-7021-AR, 30 December 1996, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (1996-2005), Documents in Project's Electronic File, including Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office
   Reports, Project Status Reports, Project Financial Assessments, and Project Procurement Assessments;
   IRIS, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (19995), Argentina ­ Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 14278-AR, Washington, D.C.




                                                 - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. ANSES' Performance Assessment System

            ANSES' Performance Assessment System (Sistema de Medición de Desempeño)

                                Comparison of Monthly Average Values 2001-2005
Type of Indicator                                    2001         2002       2003        2004       2005 *
1 ­ Demand
1.1.1  Beneficiaries - Public Pension System          3,267,811   3,224,976   3,192,450   3,141,292  3,105,697
1.1.2  Beneficiaries - Private Option                    26,076      47,368      77,644     112,732    141,070
1.2    Beneficiaries - Unemployment benefits            144,738     200,398     106,758      62,790    62,797
1.3    Social Programs (Jefes y Jefas de                    n.a.  1,791,036   1,931,394   1,803,865       n.a.
       Hogar, etc.)
2 ­ Supply
2.1.1  New beneficiaries - Public Pension                20,377      19,902      20,291      21,384    21,359
       System
2.1.2  New beneficiaries - Private Option                 2,112       2,069       3,779       5,113      5,328
2.2    Changes in beneficiaries -                        21,221      23,071       9,414       8,392      8,924
       Unemployment benefits
2.3    Internet services (such as CUIL and                  n.a.    643,215     550,409     767,485    997,024
       other inquiries)
2.4    Localities visited by UDAMs                          125          79         169         208       201
2.5    Services provided by UDATs                       322,651     288,193     351,289     402,816    536,915

3 ­ Operations
3.1.1  Stock of pending applications - Public            68,023      63,033      46,988      44,342     66,677
       Pension System
3.1.2  Stock of pending applications - Private           15,345      20,378      10,869      11,261     15,996
       Option
3.2.1  Avg. # working days for processing - Public           80          91          76          58         62
       Pension System
3.2.2  Avg. # working days for processing -                 225         189         182         160         91
       Private Option
3.3.1  % of early detected errors - Public Pension       5.10%       5.51%       7.06%       6.06%      7.93%
       System
3.3.2  % of early detected errors - Private Option      10.63%      11.59%      11.78%      15.09%     13.76%
3.4.1  Avg. monthly savings from ex-post error              n.a.    235,377     338,292     213,151    800,703
       and fraud detection
3.4.2  Avg. monthly savings from early detection            n.a.    330,195     407,736     457,265    553,653
       deceased beneficiaries
3.5.1  Avg. waiting time - Orientation counter -        0:26:54     0:21:34     0:17:38     0:16:41    0:26:39
       UDAIs
3.5.2  % customers that left the UDAI within 2              n.a.    96.50%     100.00%      99.61%     93.59%
       hours




                                                         - 39 -

Type of Indicator                 2001            2002             2003             2004            2005 *
4 - Annual Budget
(Arg.$)
4.1       Operational
          Budget                 189,300,000       216,700,000      263,000,000      310,186,664      424,350,000

4.1.1     Personnel              125,300,000       152,800,000      176,400,000      188,507,226      220,200,000
4.1.2     Supplies (Bienes
          de Consumo)              2,300,000          5,700,000        9,600,000      11,506,626       16,500,000

4.1.3     Services                57,400,000        56,600,000       72,400,000       92,372,093      164,400,000
4.1.4     Equipment
          (Bienes de Uso)          4,300,000          1,700,000        4,600,000      17,800,719       22,950,000

4.2       Retirement
          Payments             18,003,600,000    18,092,300,000   18,625,400,000   18,048,500,000   24,463,200,000

5 - Service Network
5.1       UDATs                          n.a.                8               10               10               10
5.2       UDAIs                          n.a.              108              111              113              114
5.3       Offices                        n.a.               94              112              127              126
5.4       UDAMs                          n.a.                7                8                8                8
5.5       Personnel                      n.a.             7432             7249             7349             7410
5.6       ANSES
          Payment
          Centers                        n.a.               61               90              117              117
          (Centros de
          Pago)
6 - Quality
6.1       Overall Customer
          Satisfaction                    n.a.           30.1%            31.6%            38.9%            42.9%

6.1.1     % Payments in
          ANSES Payment
          Centers
          (Retirement
          benefits)
6.1.2     Satisfaction with
          level of service in
          ANSES Payment                                   0.932

          Centers
6.1.2.1   % Responses with
          positive opinion                                0.041          89.7 %

6.1.2.2   % Responses with
          somewhat positive                               0.021           6.7 %
          opinion
6.1.2.3   % Responses with
          negative opinion                                                 3.4%

6.1.3     Indicators
          satisfaction with
          Public Letter of
          Commitment
6.1.4     Indicators Citizen
          Communication
          Channel
6.2       ANSES Image
6.2.1     % of citizens that
          report having a
          positive image of                                               56.5%

          ANSES




                                                         - 40 -

          Type of Indicator                                   2001   2002 2003  2004 2005 *
          6 ­ Quality (cont.)
          6.2.2  % of citizens that report having a                        0.22
                 somewhat positive image of ANSES
          6.2.3  % of citizens that report having a negative              8.1%
                 image of ANSES
          6.3    Certified Quality Management Processes                       1
          6.4    Prizes and awards
          6.5    Indicators of Internal Satisfaction
          6.5.1  UDAI
          6.5.2  UDAT
          6.5.3  UDAM



Based on the average corresponding to the period January through August
   Source: ANSES Strategic Planning Unit.




                                                      - 41 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution


RESEÑA DE LOS HITOS DEL PROYECTO
1.       La Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social (ANSES), es creada en 1991 en el marco de la
llamada "Primera Reforma del Estado", como un organismo descentralizado en jurisdicción del Ministerio
de Trabajo y Seguridad Social ­ Secretaría de Seguridad Social -, absorbiendo la administración del
Sistema Unico de Seguridad Social y todas las funciones inherentes al Instituto Nacional de Previsión
Social, las Cajas de Subsidios Familiares y el Sistema de Prestaciones por Desempleo. El Proyecto de
Asistencia Técnica para la Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social (ANSES), fue concebido
durante 1996 para contribuir al fortalecimiento institucional del organismo, en el marco del Plan de
Transformación que se había encarado desde fines de 1995.
2.       El Proyecto contó para ello con un presupuesto de 40 millones de dólares aportados en partes
iguales por el Banco Internacional de Reconstrucción y Fomento (BIRF), a través del préstamo 4131-AR
-U$S 20.000.000-, y por el Gobierno Nacional, a través de un aporte de contrapartida local por el mismo
importe, retrofinanciado por la porción equivalente del Préstamo BID 961 OC-AR del Banco
Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID).
3.       El Proyecto de Asistencia Técnica para la ANSES estuvo asociado en su inicio al Programa
Sectorial de Reforma de las Cajas Previsionales Provinciales (CPP), financiado por los Préstamos BID 961
OC-AR por U$S 320.000.000 y el Préstamo BIRF 4116-AR por U$S 300.000.000 que fueran otorgados
para apoyar al Gobierno de la Nación Argentina para consolidar la reforma previsional a nivel nacional,
contribuyendo a financiar los déficits de las Cajas Provinciales transferidas al Sistema Integrado de
Jubilaciones y Pensiones (SIJP).
4.       Los objetivos del Proyecto definidos al inicio fueron: asistir a ANSES para mejorar su eficacia y
eficiencia institucional a través de modernos principios de gerenciamiento y administración con el fin de: a)
reducir el fraude, las irregularidades y los pagos inapropiados; b) mejorar la calidad de los servicios a
clientes, c) absorber la administración de las Cajas Previsionales Provinciales y d) fortalecimiento
institucional. El Convenio de Préstamo con el BIRF fue firmado el 17 de abril de 1997, después de haberse
cumplido satisfactoriamente las distintas etapas de aprobación. El Préstamo fue declarado efectivo el 23 de
junio de 1997, fecha a partir de la cual se inició formalmente la ejecución del Proyecto.
5.       Durante 1997 los esfuerzos estuvieron básicamente orientados a analizar y revisar las actividades
iniciales emprendidas desde 1996 e impulsar las actividades programadas para los distintos componentes.
En ese período se obtuvieron resultados importantes tales como el diseño del Programa de Reforma; la
creación de la Gerencia de Control y Prevención del Fraude; la revisión de expedientes en base a grupos de
riesgo; la realización del estudio de riesgo conjuntamente con el Servicio de Seg. Social de Australia; la
puesta en marcha de las Unidades de Atención Integral (UDAI); el reempadronamiento de beneficiarios de
las Cajas Provinciales; el rediseño de los procesos críticos de ANSES; el análisis y la propuesta de Valor
de la organización; el diseño de la reforma de Procesamiento de datos; y una Propuesta de Plan de Sistemas
Informáticos de la organización, entre otros.
6.       En 1998, se produjo un cambio de autoridades en ANSES, generándose un paréntesis
caracterizado por la necesidad de revisar el estado de todos los proyectos del Organismo, poniendo el
énfasis en fortalecer el control interno y darle preferencia al tratamiento y solución de las observaciones
producidas en los informes de auditoría externa del Organismo. Esto significó desde el punto de vista del
Proyecto un proceso de retracción en la marcha de los planes de ejecución de actividades previstas. Se
profundizó entonces el análisis de los proyectos en ejecución y se produjo la redefinición de prioridades de
las actividades planificadas y la incorporación de nuevas necesidades.
7.




                                                      - 42 -

Asimismo durante 1998 se resolvió la incorporación al presupuesto del Proyecto de U$S 4.418.559 que
    habían sido erogados por ANSES con recursos propios y que correspondían a actividades previstas en
    el marco del Proyecto, lo que llevó el Presupuesto total del Proyecto a U$S 44.418.559.
8.      Hacia comienzos de 1999, en forma complementaria a las decisiones adoptadas, se resolvió
fortalecer el apoyo y la puesta en marcha de cuatro Proyectos: 1) Inventario y Reorganización del Archivo
Central; 2) Reconstrucción de la Base de Activos; 3) Reingeniería de la liquidación de beneficios; 4)
Control de Litigiosidad. Así como también se hizo imperativo concentrar los esfuerzos en impulsar
aceleradamente la remediación de los sistemas de ANSES para soportar el cambio de milenio, sumado a la
problemática planteada respecto de la necesidad de mudar el centro de cómputos de ANSES a otro edificio
y resolver la adquisición de un nuevo equipo informático mainframe para no obstaculizar la operación.
9.      A pesar de los planes de ejecución previstos durante 1999, como consecuencia de una fuerte
reducción del gasto público a nivel nacional, se produjo en ANSES un importante recorte presupuestario de
los créditos financiados con fondos externos (fuente 22). Esta situación sumada a la imperiosa necesidad de
abordar los trabajos relacionados con la problemática del año 2000, cuyos fondos no estaban contemplados
dentro del Proyecto, motivó una drástica disminución de la actividad del Proyecto. Se hizo necesario
destinar temporariamente fondos del Proyecto a esta actividad a la espera de las definiciones relativas a la
operación de préstamo del Banco Mundial con la Secretaría de la Función Pública, cuya aprobación
permitiría el financiamiento del Proyecto ANSES 2000 y liberaría los fondos involucrados para reactivar
las actividades programadas.
10.     Si bien el Préstamo BIRF 4423-AR para el Proyecto Año 2000 de la Secretaría de la Función
Pública se declaró efectivo el 30 de julio de 1999, en el mes de noviembre ANSES recibió una
comunicación oficial de la Secretaría indicando que no contaba con presupuesto aprobado por la Secretaría
de Hacienda para poder efectuar el financiamiento del Proyecto ANSES 2000; debiendo en consecuencia
absorber definitivamente dicha actividad el Proyecto de Asistencia Técnica para ANSES con los propios
recursos del Préstamo 4131-AR., lo que quedó oficializado a través de la No Objeción otorgada por el
Banco con fecha 27 de octubre de 2000.
11.     Durante el segundo semestre de 1999 se llevaron a cabo algunas acciones tendientes a establecer
bases y marcos de acción para llevar a cabo un esfuerzo de construcción de la visión estratégica de la
ANSES a diez años. Para ello, se consideró posible establecer con el Banco Mundial pautas generales de
trabajo para constituir un equipo que desarrolle el diseño de un proyecto de modernización de la
organización basado en criterios de planeamiento estratégico acordados con las instancias gubernamentales
correspondientes. Sin embargo, esta iniciativa no prosperó en virtud de la inminencia del cambio de
gobierno a nivel nacional.
12.     Como consecuencia de las elecciones presidenciales realizadas en 1999, el 10 de diciembre tomó
posesión el nuevo gobierno de la Nación. El 20 de enero de 2000, el Secretario de Seguridad Social asumió
la Dirección Ejecutiva de ANSES con el encargo de proponer una nueva estructura del Organismo. Desde
entonces ANSES contó con un Directorio constituido por seis integrantes, los cuales tomaron a su cargo las
diferentes gerencias de primera línea existentes. Como aspecto sobresaliente de esta reestructuración,
desapareció la figura del Gerente General, quién entre otras cosas ejercía la Coordinación General del
Proyecto.
13.     Paralelamente a los cambios producidos a nivel nacional y en el organismo, también en el Banco
Mundial se produjo en los primeros meses del año 2000 un período de transición, debido a la sustitución
del Gerente del Proyecto por parte del Banco.
14.




                                                   - 43 -

Entre el 24 de abril y el 4 de mayo de 2000, el Banco Mundial llevó a cabo una Revisión de Mitad de
    Período de todo el Proyecto de Asistencia Técnica para ANSES, recibiendo éste la calificación de
    Satisfactorio. En su transcurso se evaluó el avance del Proyecto, la capacidad institucional actual y se
    definieron conjuntamente con la Dirección de ANSES las tareas y los proyectos que se llevarían a cabo
    hasta la finalización del Proyecto. Con el propósito de encarar las prioridades definidas y ejecutarlas
    adecuadamente dentro del marco del Proyecto, la Dirección de ANSES solicitó entonces al Banco
    Mundial una prórroga de la fecha de cierre del Proyecto que estaba prevista para junio de 2001, para
    llevarla a diciembre de 2002, la cual fue otorgada con fecha 30 de mayo de 2001.
15.      La decisión de la administración de ANSES de modificar la estructura organizativa creando un
Directorio con 6 Directores, eliminando la Gerencia General y disminuyendo la capacidad gerencial de la
organización vigente, ocasionó trastornos operativos y diversos retrasos producto de la adecuación de las
relaciones imperantes a la nueva estructura de mando. Asimismo, se produjo un efecto de lentitud en la
toma de decisiones y las acciones se volvieron autónomas y poco integradas entre las distintas áreas de la
organización, produciendo atrasos significativos en la ejecución de algunos proyectos. Durante esta etapa
pocos fueron los avances y sólo se consiguió apoyar el desarrollo del Tablero de Ingresos del sistema
previsional; la realización del Plan Nacional de Fiscalización de Ingresos; el estudio de factibilidad para la
implementación de una tarjeta de pago de beneficios con lectura óptica, como los aspectos más relevantes
del período.
16.      En el mes de septiembre de 2000 se produjo un nuevo cambio de autoridades de ANSES, con la
designación de un Interventor Normalizador en la Dirección Ejecutiva, y con la recreación de la figura del
Gerente General. Esta Intervención se abocó a la tarea de analizar los cambios necesarios para establecer
una nueva estructura en el Organismo.
17.      Hacia fines de 2000, ANSES fue incluido junto con la AFIP y el Ministerio de Educación como
organismo piloto para llevar adelante un plan de Reforma institucional en el marco del proceso de
modernización del Estado encarado por el Gobierno Nacional. Este proceso se articuló dentro de una
operación de ajuste estructural convenida con el Banco Mundial. De esta manera, se acordó con ANSES un
conjunto de condicionalidades asociadas a los desembolsos programados que debían cumplirse para julio y
septiembre de 2001. Las metas estaban referidas fundamentalmente a la modificación de la estructura del
organismo, la definición de un Plan Estratégico, la puesta en marcha de un conjunto de medidas
anti-fraude, la implementación de un nuevo sistema de pago directo de asignaciones familiares, la reducción
del stock de expedientes previsionales hasta su eliminación, la reducción de comisiones bancarias hasta su
eliminación y la mejora en la atención a los beneficiarios.
18.      Los años 2000 y 2001 tuvieron un fuerte ingrediente de transición motivada fundamentalmente por
el cambio de autoridades a nivel nacional e institucional, tomando en cuenta el proceso de aprendizaje y
toma de control que ello conlleva. Mientras el Programa parecía retomar el rumbo definido con los
proyectos a ejecutarse y los plazos estimados necesarios, se agudizaba en forma extrema la situación
económica, política y social del país, produciéndose un altísimo nivel de incertidumbre sobre las situaciones
nacionales e institucionales que pudieran provocarse.
19.      El grave deterioro económico ocurrido durante 2001, motivó en el mes de mayo la reducción del
crédito presupuestario vigente para el ejercicio 2001 en un 33%, ocasionando una detención en la ejecución
de las actividades no iniciadas programadas para el ejercicio y la reclasificación de partidas
presupuestarias para poder atender los compromisos ya asumidos en los diversos proyectos en ejecución.
20.      Las medidas adoptadas por el Poder Ejecutivo en el marco del Déficit Cero generaron un mayor
ajuste, sobre todo en lo referido a las partidas destinadas al pago de honorarios de consultores; reduciendo
el honorario nominal individual en un 13% y disminuyendo en un 30% las partidas presupuestarias
mencionadas no devengadas al 30 de junio de 2001.


                                                     - 44 -

21.      El 2 de agosto de 2001, con motivo de la renuncia del entonces Interventor, el Gerente General de
la Organización fue designado a cargo de la Intervención Normalizadora, unificando en la misma persona
ambos cargos. Este cambio permitió una rápida resolución en el proceso de reestructuración de ANSES,
aprobándose la nueva estructura orgánica que redujo drásticamente los niveles gerenciales en más de un
40%, en apego a la meta de reducción del gasto.
22.      Durante el último cuatrimestre del año, la dirección de ANSES presentó un conjunto de medidas
dentro de un plan denominado Reforma Modelo, la que retomó los ejes establecidos para el desarrollo del
Programa de asistencia técnica y constituyó la base para continuar profundizando los avances en la misma
dirección. Asimismo, En el marco de las condicionalidades acordadas con el Banco Mundial, ANSES
cumplió con los compromisos asumidos aprobando la nueva estructura orgánica racionalizada, dictando las
medidas anti-fraude previstas, poniendo en marcha el proceso de control de fallecidos en las provincias,
diseñando y desarrollando el nuevo sistema de asignaciones familiares, reduciendo las comisiones pagadas
a los bancos, y reduciendo el stock de expedientes previsionales en los niveles acordados.
23.      Hacia fines de 2001 y después de un largo proceso de desgaste a nivel nacional se produjo un
dramático cuestionamiento de la sociedad civil a las autoridades gubernamentales ocasionando la renuncia
del Presidente de la Nación y dando inicio a la más grave crisis política e institucional argentina de los
últimos diecisiete años. Esta situación trajo aparejados serios problemas de gobernabilidad y provocó la
designación de un Gobierno de emergencia y la salida del régimen de convertibilidad y la devaluación del
peso argentino como hechos sobresalientes. ANSES no estuvo exenta obviamente de estos acontecimientos,
produciéndose durante diciembre y enero tres cambios sucesivos en la conducción del organismo.
24.      A fines de enero de 2002 asumió el Director Ejecutivo actual, ratificando su intención de
profundizar las líneas de reforma establecidas y expresando su vocación de producir un cambio sustancial
en la organización para cumplir con el mandato institucional y las expectativas de los ciudadanos.
25.      La nueva conducción impulsó en forma inmediata importantes iniciativas de alto impacto
institucional, provocando en ANSES una inyección de motivación. Como ejemplo de ello, se terminó de
definir e implementar una nueva estructura orgánica de ANSES que redujo la cantidad de gerencias
anterior y se aprobó el Plan Estratégico de ANSES 2002-2005, con un fuerte impulso a la actividad de
planeamiento que se encontraba postergada. En la misma línea se retomó la cultura de Plan Operativo
Anual (POA), aprobándose rápidamente el correspondiente al año 2002. De esta manera se puso en marcha
un nuevo Sistema de Gestión con orientación a resultados y a la medición rutinaria de los mismos en base a
compromisos gerenciales de las áreas operativas y de apoyo.
26.      En ese marco, la nueva dirección orientó los esfuerzos se orientaron hacia los siguientes ejes:
         Mejorar los procesos relacionados con los productos y servicios a terceros, para lograr
utilización de menos recursos, menos tiempo de gestión y simplificación de tramitaciones internas.
         Mejorar la orientación al público en cuanto a la accesibilidad a la organización y a los
programas de la seguridad social a través de la implementación de la Carta Compromiso con el
Ciudadano, la utilización de la página Web para orientación en trámites y en aplicaciones simples y la
modernización de los procedimientos de la UDAT (Unidad de Atención Telefónica)
         Extender el alcance de la política comunicacional de la organización tanto hacia la comunidad
como hacia los agentes internos en base al uso de INTRANET como medio de comunicación permanente
y actualizada para todo el personal, la realización de Encuestas de opinión y la presencia activa en los
medios de comunicación nacionales.
27.      Al mismo tiempo se pusieron en marcha diversos operativos tendientes a reducir el atraso existente
en los trámites de otorgamiento de beneficios, logrando importantes resultados. En este contexto las
actividades que se encontraban en marcha del Programa de Asistencia Técnica fueron fuertemente
impulsadas.
28.      Durante el año 2002 se pudo avanzar significativamente en todos los proyectos asociados a la
reconstrucción de la Historia Laboral -se pusieron en marcha los proyectos de Entes Residuales y



                                                   - 45 -

Declaraciones Juradas de Empleadores, los que sumados al proyecto de Activos Provinciales, constituyen
un importante avance en el completamiento de la Base-. También se encaró la toma de datos para la
administración de los programas sociales que resulta de vital importancia para cumplir con los encargos del
Gobierno Nacional, y la implementación de un Legajo único para las prestaciones activas, contribuyendo
de manera sustancial a la integración exhaustiva de la información de las personas a las bases de datos de
ANSES. Estas acciones tienen un fuerte impacto en términos de control de fraude y simplificación
administrativa.
29.      Durante 2003, y dentro de lo previsto en el Plan Operativo Anual (POA), se obtuvieron
significativos avances en la marcha del Proyecto, habiéndose concluido satisfactoriamente la etapa de
captura e incorporación definitiva a la base de datos de toda la información de Historia Laboral de las
Cajas Provinciales transferidas a ANSES y el diseño y desarrollo del nuevo Sistema de Asignaciones
Familiares (SUAF), junto con la Capacitación de agentes de la Organización para su implementación en
todo el país. También se firmó e implementó la Carta Compromiso con el Ciudadano, constituyendo un hito
de extrema relevancia, ya que es la primera vez que ANSES compromete en un documento público los
servicios de atención, se definieron lineamientos generales para la elaboración del Plan Estratégico
2004-2007, junto con un mecanismo de Monitoreo de Avance para medir los indicadores de los objetivos
estratégicos del Plan a futuro, se implementaron los Compromisos de Gestión por Resultados (CGR) para
todos los Gerentes de la Organización y se obtuvo el primer Certificado ISO ­ 9001 de Gestión de Calidad
a la gestión de UDAT (Unidad de Atención Telefónica).
30.      Hacia fines de 2003, el Banco Mundial autorizó prorrogar el cierre del Programa hasta el 31 de
diciembre de 2004, basado en un Plan de Acción definido por ANSES con actividades y presupuesto
consensuadas con el Banco y con las autoridades nacionales involucradas. Dicho Plan constituye un
conjunto de tareas que articulan los logros alcanzados hasta el momento con la planificación de las
acciones a largo plazo. Su ejecución presupone la utilización de todos los fondos remanentes del préstamo.
31.      Durante el año 2004, la conducción del organismo orientó su esfuerzo al mantenimiento y
afinación de los indicadores clave de la gestión, mejorando aún la performance alcanzada hasta el año
anterior. Asimismo, se produjeron importantes logros de la gestión del organismo, entre las cuales se
destacan: la obtención de mejoras en los beneficios previsionales, el adelanto del calendario de pago de
jubilaciones y pensiones, la implementación del SICAM -Sistema de Información para Contribuyentes
Autónomos y /o Monotributistas-, la verificación anticipada del detalle de aportes previsionales, el
otorgamiento de cobertura de salud a todos los beneficiarios de la Prestación por Desempleo, y el diseño y
aprobación de un Plan Institucional de Capacitación y de formación para el personal de UDAT 2004-2005.
32.      Adicionalmente, se produjo la aprobación del POA 2004, con mayor cantidad de indicadores y
mayores exigencias de cumplimiento para los aprobados en el POA 2003, el lanzamiento de la Carta
Compromiso Interna ­Capítulo Prestaciones­ con lo cual las UDAI, Oficinas, UDAT y UDAM cuentan
con 35 compromisos en base a estándares de servicios firmados por las áreas de apoyo, la habilitación de
dos nuevos sistemas de gestión de la calidad implementados en las UDAT Resistencia y UDAT Córdoba, la
certificación del canal de comunicación con el ciudadano en base a la norma IRAM 90600 de Sistemas de
Gestión de Reclamos, la circularización interna del documento de trabajo de un nuevo Plan Estratégico de
ANSES para su aprobación para el periodo 2005-2008 y el seguimiento y análisis de los logros resultantes
del Sistema de Medición de Desempeño enero 2003­abril de 2004.
33.      Dentro del marco del Programa de Asistencia Técnica se finalizaron las actividades de los
Proyectos: Capacitación a Integrantes de Centros de Jubilados, Declaraciones Juradas, Legajo Único,
Actualización y Optimización de la Base Unica de la Seguridad Social (AYOBUSS), Cuenta Corriente del
Beneficiario, Entes Residuales, Activos Nacionales, Registro Nacional de Beneficiarios de Planes Sociales
y Sistema Único de Desempleo (SUDE) y la última etapa del Proyecto Intranet y Extranet. Asimismo se
continuó con las actividades tendientes a reducir la litigiosidad en el Sistema, como ser: Reducción del
Stock de Expedientes de la CARSS, Control de Litigiosidad y Litigiosidad Jefes de Hogar. Finalmente, se
llevaron a cabo en este período la evaluación y adjudicación del proceso de licitación del Proyecto de


                                                  - 46 -

Modernización del Archivo y el lanzamiento, la recepción de ofertas y la adjudicación de la licitación para
la adquisición del Mainframe de ANSES.
34.     Tanto el Proyecto de Modernización del Archivo, como la adquisición del mainframe se finalizaron
durante la prórroga otorgada al Proyecto al 30 de junio de 2005. Como resultado de la implmentación del
mainframe, llegó al record histórico de procesamiento en línea, con más de 81.000.000 millones de
transacciones al mes y donde la mayoría de los sistemas incrementaron su actividad durante el año
(ejemplo: 153% Primeros Pagos, 47% Gestión de Trámites y 21% Sistema Integrado de Jubilaciones y
Pensiones). Respecto a la modernización el archivo, a partir del inventario llevado a cabo en 10 millones de
expedientes de todo el país, se logró una importante reducción en la litigiosidad, asegurar la guarda de la
información y el resguardo documental, así como también proyectar al organismo hacia el desarrollo
tecnológico de la digitalización.
35.     Para efectuar el cierre administrativo-financiero de las actividades de ANSES I, el Banco otorgo la
No Objeción al período de gracia por cuatro meses posteriores al 30/06/2005




                                                   - 47 -

- 48 -

