Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4131-AR
Loan Agreement
(National Pension Administration Technical Assistance Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 17, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4131-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 1997, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement, except that Section 6.03 
of the General Conditions is modified to read:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project's costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Page  2
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount. Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled.".
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"ANSeS" means the Borrower's Administracin Nacional de la Seguridad 
Social (National Social Security Administration);
(b)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter, of even date herewith, entered 
into between the Borrower and the Bank with respect to the timetable and targets for 
the Project;
(c)
"PAU" means the Project administration unit referred to in Section 3.04 
of this Agreement; 
(d)
"PPF" means a pension fund (Sistema de Previsin Social), administered (or 
previously administered) by a province or municipality of the Borrower, for the 
benefit of employees of the province (and municipalities therein) or the municipality;
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
"Steering Committee" means the committee referred to in Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement; and 
(g)
"UDAI" means one of a number of ANSeS branch offices (Unidades de 
Asistencia Integral), located throughout Argentina, which offer the full range of 
ANSeS customer service to pensioners and other ANSeS clients and may be fixed (located 
in a building) or mobile (operating out of a vehicle so as to serve immobile clients).
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
million Dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nacin Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Page  3
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement. 
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and October 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. ANSeS's Director Ejecutivo (Executive Director), or any person so 
authorized in writing to the Bank by said Executive Director, is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) and (b) of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through ANSeS with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, as well as in 
accordance with the action plan referred to in Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement and 
the periodically adjustable timetable and targets set forth in the Implementation 
Letter.
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and services required for the Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. With regard to Part C of the Project, the Borrower, through ANSeS, 
shall throughout the course of Project implementation maintain within ANSeS a transfer 
unit, staffed and operated in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to supervise the 
absorption by ANSeS of the administration of PPFs.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through ANSeS, shall establish, and throughout the 
course of Project implementation maintain within ANSeS, a Project administration unit 
that shall be responsible for coordinating procurement and accounting matters with 
respect to the Project. The PAU shall: (a) be headed by an administrator and include a 
senior and a junior accountant, a senior and a junior procurement specialist (all with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank) and three support staff; and 
(b) administer a fully operational project accounting and monitoring system, 
satisfactory to the Bank, beginning no later than June 30, 1997 and continuing 
throughout the remainder of the course of Project implementation.
Section 3.05. Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Borrower 
shall maintain a Project steering committee chaired by the Borrower's Secretario de 
Seguridad Social (Social Security Secretary) and staffed with social security and 
management experts.
Section 3.06. To assist in financing the Project, the Borrower shall deposit 
into an ANSeS-controlled account, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and 
in installments, an amount, other than Loan proceeds, of twenty million Dollars 
($20,000,000). Said installments shall be deposited into such account by the Borrower 
as follows:  (a) $10,000,000 by no later than three months after the Effective Date; 
(b) an additional $4,000,000 by no later than twelve months after the Effective Date; 
(c) an additional $4,000,000 by no later than twenty-four months after the Effective 
Date; and (d) an additional $2,000,000 by no later than thirty-six months after the 
Effective Date. No withdrawals shall be made from said account except to pay for 
Project expenditures.
Section 3.07. The Borrower may contract with a procurement agent to carry out 
procurement of goods and services for the Project on behalf of the Borrower and/or 
ANSeS.  The Borrower shall ensure that said procurement agent shall carry out 
procurement, process disbursement documentation, maintain and allow audit of records 
and in general act in a manner that permits full Borrower compliance, either directly 
or through the procurement agent, with the terms of this Agreement.
Section 3.08. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation of the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
(through the PAU) shall furnish to the Bank, by no later than each March 31 and 
September 30 (beginning on September 30, 1997), a semi-annual progress report on 
implementation of the Project, approved by the Steering Committee, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank and based on the timetable and targets set forth in the 
Implementation Letter.
(b)
As part of each September semi-annual report referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, the Borrower, through the PAU, shall present to the Bank an annual 
action plan, approved by the Steering Committee and satisfactory to the Bank, for 
Project implementation during the immediately subsequent calendar year. Each such 
action plan shall be carried out by the Borrower, through ANSeS, during the calendar 
year covered by the action plan and may contain, inter alia, the periodic adjustment 
to the timetable and targets referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through ANSeS, shall maintain records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, through ANSeS:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Page  5
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and Accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request; and
(iv)
in addition, cause the reports of such auditors to include 
separate opinions on compliance by the Borrower and ANSeS with the 
obligations set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
ANSeS, shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that all action has been taken by the Borrower in order to permit that 
the procurement of services to be financed with Loan proceeds be undertaken in 
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement;
(b)
that the PAU has been established and staffed with at least the 
administrator, senior accountant and senior procurement specialist referred to in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and
(c)
that an action plan for Project implementation has been presented by the 
Borrower to the Bank, which plan: (i) covers the period up to December 31, 1997; (ii) 
is consistent with the timetable and targets for 1997 referred to in Section 3.01 (a) 
of this Agreement; (iii) is approved by the Steering Committee; and (iv) is 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date July 16, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
Page  6
of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economa y Obras y Servicios Publicos
Hiplito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
Copy to:
ANSeS
Direccin Ejecutiva, Avenida Crdoba 720,
Piso 5, 1054
Buenos Aires, Argentina
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
Washington, D.C.
248423 (MCI),
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Benjamn Fernandez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated             % of
Page  7
                             (Expressed in          Expenditures
     Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Consultant                16,140,000          100%
     services
     (including
     procurement
     agent services)
(2)  Goods                      3,860,000          100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures;
                                                   100% of local
                                                   expenditures (ex-
                                                   factory cost);
                                                   and, for local
                                                   expenditures for
                                                   other items
                                                   procured locally,
                                                   see para. 4 of
                                                   this Schedule
          TOTAL                20,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent (in the case of consulting firms), under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent (in the case of individual consultants) and under contracts 
procured through national shopping procedures, all  under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
4.
The percentage of "local expenditures for other items procured locally" to be 
financed by the Bank shall be:  (a) 100% in the case of goods procured through the 
services of a tax-exempt procurement agent; or (b) 82% in the case of all other goods.
5.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "goods" includes only non-consumable goods, and thus excludes 
those goods for which expenditures to purchase them would be deemed to constitute 
Borrower or ANSeS recurrent costs.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist ANSeS in improving its institutional 
efficiency and effectiveness along modern management principles in order to: (a) 
reduce instances of improper pension payment; (b) improve the quality of its client 
services; and (c) absorb administration of PPFs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Fraud and Error Control
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance to ANSeS to support the carrying out by ANSeS 
of the following actions aimed at preparing a systematic review of existing individual 
pension case files administered by ANSeS so as to identify cases of improper pension 
payment resulting from fraud or error: (a) definition of a file review methodology; 
(b) development of performance criteria by  which to control and gauge the success of 
the review; (c) calculation of review cost/benefit cut-off points; and (d) validation 
of the review methodology.
Page  8
2.
Provision of technical assistance to ANSeS to carry out the review prepared 
pursuant to Part A.1 of the Project.
3.
Provision of technical assistance to ANSeS to establish a pension fraud control 
unit within ANSeS.
Part B:
Client Service Improvement
 
Assistance to ANSeS in the establishment and operation of UDAIs, by providing 
ANSeS with technical assistance, staff training, computer equipment, computer software 
and other goods.
Part C:
PPF Absorption
 
Assistance to ANSeS to facilitate its absorption of PPF administration, by 
providing ANSeS staff with training (with regard to, for example, provincial pension 
rules) and by providing technical assistance to ANSeS.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening
 
Institutional strengthening of ANSeS by providing it with technical assistance 
and staff training with regard to: application of modern management techniques 
(including change management) within ANSeS; operation of a network of change 
facilitation teams, workgroups and committees within ANSeS; establishment of internal 
communications, goal-setting, accountability, performance evaluation and performance 
pay programs within ANSeS; establishment of modalities for ANSeS internal hiring and 
outsourcing of services; upgrading of financial information management within ANSeS; 
upgrading of ANSeS in-house informatics resources and informatics outsourcing 
capabilities; improvement of ANSeS procurement capacity; and development of improved 
ANSeS human resource policies.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                  Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due     
               (Expressed in Dollars)*
 
On each April 15 and October 15
     beginning October 15, 2002
     through April 15, 2012                
1,000,000
 
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  9
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to all goods procured under Part B of this Section.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other 
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment 
Page  10
of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:  (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; and (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
3.
Individual consultants shall be employed only in cases for which the Bank has 
given its prior approval in writing.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (but not to be financed out of any Loan 
proceeds advanced to a procurement agent for use in paying for such goods or 
services); and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $250,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  11
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
