Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11444-ALB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALBANIA
LABOR MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AUGUST 18, 1993
MI CROGRAPHICS
Report No: 11444 ALB
Type: SAR
Buman Resources Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their official dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witboot World Bank authorzation.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Lek
US$1.00 = Lek 104 (June 1993)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
SC    -    European Community
FY    -    Fiscal Year
GDP   -    Gross Domestic Product
IBRD  -     International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
IDA   -     International Development Association
ILO   -     International Labor Organization
LLO   -    Local Labor Office
MOLSP -    Ministry  of  Labor,  Emigration,  Social
Protection, and Ex-Politically Persecuted
People
NGO   -    Non-Governmental Organization
OECD  -    Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
PCU   -     Project Coordination Unit
PPF   -    Project Preparation Facility
SB    -     Small Business
SII   -    Social Insurance Institute
TEEF  -    Training, Enterprise and Employment Fund



FOR O0FICIA UU ONLY
LAaoR "l=   EgOMN    Rz
MMAl APPfl2TAL &a=O~
TABLE OF CONTENTS
credit and Project Summary   ...  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .
I.    XnTRODUCTIO         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    1
1I.   h.S.C          . KG Q    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1. .  . . .  . . . .
A.  The Labor Market . . .               ....   .......  .   .    .                         1
S.  Labor Market Institutions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       4
C.  Government Strategy  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       9
D.  ZDA's Role and Strategy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
SIll.  M PROJEC    . . .  ...... .. . . . ..... .. .. .. .. . . . ..   12
A.. Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
B. Pro' eat Comonents . ............ . 13
Part 1:   Institutional Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
National Labor Policy    ........                       . .......    13
Local Institutional Development . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Part II: Training, Enterprise and Bmployment Pund   . . . . . . .   17
IV.   PROJECT COSTS. FIANCINg.  nU4MEN   AND  MPLMNTATON  . . . . . .   20
A.  Project Costs   . ....................... .   20
S. Project F iancing ;.......................... ..........             ..  .  .   .  23
C. Project Managementedmenpltation    .                               .23
D. Procurement .................... ...                                                    26
B.  Disbursements   ....  .            .  .  .  .  .    .....  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    29
P.  Status of Preparation   ...  .             .  .  .  .    .....  .    .  .  .  .  .  .     .    30
Ui report is based an the findings of a World Dank mission which visited Albania in January 1993. The mission
cosisted of Terea J. 8o (task manager. VC1, AXvil Van Adam  (trainig and labor mkt poliey, UP). D&vd
rtell (ewloyment services. C/2UR), Virinia B. jackson (project implementation,  C/21R) aAd Patrick
Sohetmin  (computeor syste, consultant). Leonardo M. Concepecio  (project imlementation, D )) and Jane
peretz (employmet services. consultant) alo contributed substantially to project preparation.  William
iperton (MPn) is peer reviewer for this project. Supervisin managers re Andrew Rogesao  (2C2) and Rlph
W. Narbison (SC1/2M) and the Director is Zma Dervis (uC2.).
This document has a restited distrbution and may be used by ecipients onb in the performanco
of their oMcia duties Its contents may not othaer   be dscosed without World Bank authorization.



V.              ZXn=I  WRtS   .. .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..   31
A.  PROJECTERNE. . . . .        . . . . . .  .. ........ .   31
V:   Denef its   .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .      .  .   .  *  .  32
ZMLU
Table4. 1    PROECT COST SUDO4AY   ...........  .  .  .  .   .  .   21
Table 4.2   PROJECT COST SUIRY DBY CATEGORY OF EZXDIDTMRZ  . . . . . .  21
Table 4.3    FACING PLAN BY DISDUBVEN>T CATGORY . . . . .. . . . . .  23
Table 4.4    PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARARNZMEN4TS  .  ..... . . .   . . .   .  26
Table4.5    PROJECTEDDISBURSEMENTSaY SMSTER  ... .     . . . . . . .   .  29
AW= A       Criteria and Reimbursable Categories for Activities . . . .  35
to be Financed by the Training, Enterprise and
EmVloyment Fund (TEEF)
ANNEX B     Government Decision Establishing the Albanian. . . . .  .   43
Training, Enterprise and Employment Fund
ANNEX C     Detailed Cost Tables  . . . . . . ..... .. . . . .. .   55
AN=EX D      Summary of Tecbnical Assistance Inputs. .. . . . . . ...  .  67
ANNEX E      Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . . . . . . .  69
AIW    F     Strategy for Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . .  73.
ARMNXG       Xey Project Activities . .. . . . .  .... .......    79
.ARMEX B    Detailed Project Implementation Schedule: Year One. . . . .  85
AMX I       Rey Socioecomic Data .c...................   93
MAP:        l    24706



ALUMZ    PRLUC
!;                   ~~~~~~LAEUO MARKET DSvELOPMEMY PROJECT
Credit and Prolect gunuarv
Government of Albania
a.Iks         SDR 3.9 million (US$5.4.million equivalent)
3rms          Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
RaSH.tag      The Project will assist the Government in creating as rapidly as
biggftivela   possible  the  policy  and  institutional  conditions  for  the
development of an active and responive labor market.
Specifically, it aims to establish institutional structures and
build in-country experience to: (a) develop and manage labor
market policies that support the transition to a market economy;
(b) improve the operation of local labor offices in providing
income support and modest redeployment assistance to the
unemployed; and (c) increase the productivity and employability
of the work force through training and small business promotion
activities.
Procnt        The Project has two complementary parts:
Part I: INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
a. National Labor Policy: designed to strengthen capacity within
the MOLSP to develop national labor policies through: (i) support
for strategic planning and management; (ii) improved collection
of labor market information; and (iii) establishment of a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) monitoring all externally-funded MOLSP
activities.
b.   Local  Institutional  Development:  designed  improve  the
operation and management of employment services through: (i)
improved efficiency of registration and benefit payment for the
unemployed;and (ii) development of two pilot, full-service local
labor offices to focus on counselling and job information
services, as well as benefit administration.
Part II:  TRAINING. ENTERPRISE AND fMPLOXMENT FMND
c. The Trainina. Enternrime and EmFlovment Pund (TEE?) : designed
to develop a mechanism (TEEF) for channeling resources to projects
that would encourage flexible, demand-driven training or promote
the creation of small enterprises, targeted toward private sector
job creation for the unemployed.  Specific activities that will
be eligible for funding include contract training services, job
insertion (on-the-job) training, and small business incubators.



ii
UdUit.    The Project's 2rincLal benyisf  will be  to:  (a)  lay the
groundwork for development of active labor markets in Albai by
supporttig key labor market institutiom including the Ministry
of Lbor and the network of labor offices: (b) minimize the social
costs of the transition and reduce the budgetary burden of
uneiploymnt benefits by improving the efficiency of bemfit
payentS {(c) initiate delivery of services to help the unemloyed
return  mre  quckly  into  employment  and  increase  their
productivity; and (d) provide a framwork for chaneling public
resources and external aid to private sector and commnity-based
providers offering services for the unemployed.   Given the
unimouns surrounding the demand and supply for training and small
business services in Albania, it is impossible to forecast how
many unemployed may directly benefit from the TBUF in its test
phase. A reasonable target would be to aim to enrol some 10,000
participants in theae activities, and, given the contractual
placement rates, expect about 6000-7000 permanent jobs to be
filled.
R1iEk         The mainL risks are:  (a) labor offices may experience excess
capacity   as the number of unemployment benefit recipients
inevitably starts to decline; and (b) TEE? resources may be
misused, particularly under pressure from vested interests or from
unscrupulous service providers. Recognizing that its requirements
will change as the volume of benefit payments declines, the MOLSP
intends to adjust its staffing after the peak period, on the basis
of a target beneficiary to worker ratio for benefit payments (to
be determined as part of the Unemployment Registration and Benefit
sub-component). This ratio will be adjusted to allow for the
gradual introduction of proactive services, initially for the
Ugatewayw services required to support Fund activities, and
eventually fur other services.   on the second point, Fund
activities will be closely monitored during implementation by the
Fund's manageent, its board and IDA. Reviews will be based on
specific cutoff criteria and safeguard limits of expenditure
approval, as set out in the Fund's draft regulations.   The
selection process for the Executive Director of the Fund, which
is already underway, will be given the critical attention it
requires. Finally, Fund operations will be closely examined at
the mid-term review.



iii
(Millio)
Albnf a
Laor Narket Developoont ProJect
Projet Cost 815V
t1k                          V                         x Totat
..........................   .........................--.-- -      freign  saw
Locat    oign     otal      Local Forin   Total         chWe    cOuts
............      .........  *......    4*...... * ...........4........ ..........
A  . Zl                            1.5    35.0    36.5          0.0    0.3      0.        ff.9      6.3
2. Labor MOM  information       0.3    29.5     29.8        0.0    0.3      0.3        99.1      5.2
3. Project Coordination Unit    3.6    30.5    34.0         0.0     03      0.3        895       5.9
*.... ; ... i....             ... :..... . .   4.....     ..........
Sub- l                             5.      94.9   100.3         0.1     0.9     1.0        94.7    17.4
* . Local Irstitutlonat Dew.
I. lb~ploy.4gsi/Pa)vmnts       18.7    99.0    117.6        0.2    1.0      1.1        64.1     20.4
2. Labor OfficeEploy.Ser.       4.6    47.0    51.6         0.0    0.5      0.5        91.2      9.0
Sb-Total t.2                                  146.0    1.2      0.2     1.4     1.6        86.3    29.4
C . TEE Fwid (TEEF)
1. Fiud ft. ad TA               4.3     79.3    83.7        0.0     0.8     0.6        94.8    14.5
2. Frv Resourcts               33.4    169.4   222.8        0.3     1.8    2.1         U.0      36.7
Smb-Total                         37.6   268.7   306.S          0.4    2.6      2.9        67.7    53.2
Total MIBUSEhI OST                U.3    509.7   576.0          0.6    4.9      5.5        5.5    100.0
Phhfcal Cmntinsenfes             3.3    32.0    35.3         0.0    0.3      0.3        90.7      6.1
Price Contfiges                  2.3     14.8    17.1        0.0    0.1      0.2        86.6      3.0
..... ~~~........    ................. .........................................  ....................
Total PROEC  COSTS                71.9    556.5   618.4         0.7    S.4      6.0        08.6   109.1
FJINACI  PLAN
(U$  M1io)
LaForaT
Government of Albania                                0.3            0.0            0.3
Beeficiaries                                         0.3            0.0            0.3
IDA                                                  0.1            S.3            5.4
Total Financing Requirements                  0.7            5.3            6.0
ETIMPTI5 DX8BMMRS1S
(US$ Million)
Da FY                                FY94           FY95           FY96           PY97
Anual                                2.2            1.4            1.1            0.7
Cumulative                           2.2            3.6            4.7            5.4
Cumulative as 1 of Total             41*            67t            87%            1001



1.1      When Albania started the transition from a command to a market
economy in 1991, most State enterprises, accounting for the overwhelming share
of wi plut, had virtually ceased to function. They lacked raw materials and
spare parts; their technology was badly outdated; and their protected markets
had disappeared. Bstimates of GDP in 1991, US$425 per capita, were 30 percent
lower than in 1990. Industrial production then plummeted an estimated 70
percent in the first half of 1992, compared with the same pe:iod in 1991.
From an economy that bad guaranteed full "employment" over the past 40 years,
the country now faced catastrophic open unemployment.
1.2      Coping with the unemployment crisis has become an overriding
governmnxt concern. Through economic restructuring and restored growth, the
unemployment rate, now at almost 30 percent, should eventually decline to
socially tolerable levels. But it is difficult to predict how long this
process will take, and in the meantime, the top priorities are to administer
minimum income support measures efficiently and equitably, and to begin to
support the unemployed in their job search and training efforts. In addition,
a policy framework must be established to promote development of an active and
efficient labor market and enable market participants to fulfill their new
roles. This Project would help the Government initiate policies and programs
needed to promote labor market development and to assist the unemployed.
:x-
A. XThe  abr Maket
2.1      Albania's resident population approached 3.3 million in  s990,2/
with slightly over 60 percent of the population living in rural areas. The
working-age population - including men 15 to 59 years and women 15 to 54 years
- numbered just under 1.9 million, 58 percent of the total. Seventy-four
percent (1.4 million) of the working age population was employed in 1990,
having risen slightly over the past decade. The average annual increase in
employment during the previous decade was 2.8 percent. Agriculture accounted
for 47 percent of total employment; industry was the second largest employer
with 24 percent.
vr 1991 flStinEiea1 VaaXbook of Mbni.



-2-
2.2     Throuh most of the 1980s, indtstrial eul1oyment expnded rapidly.
The averago annual incrase was three times that of the agriculture sector,
3.9 and 1.3 percent respectively. The expansion of 4indutrial employmenDt,
howevor, wao largely to maintain the myth of a full %Mployment economy, and
occurred at the expnso of declining productivity. Industrial output per
worker fell by i6 percent during tho decade. Wages in the State sector rose
in nominal, but not in real terms. By 1990, the economy began to falter and
signs of the coming breakdown could no longer be ignored.
2.3     The open unemployment and the crisis it would create were initially
hidden from view, however, as State enterprises were forced to retain and pay
idle workers 80 percent of their wages. When this policy was rescinded in
July 1992, employers responded with mass layoffs and the number of registered
unemployed doubled in two months from 127,000 (9 percent of the working
population) in June 1992 to 250,000 (18 pereent) in August 1992. By November
1992, this number had increased further to 380,000 (27 perCent). No
transition economy bas ever clamped down on loss-making enterprises so hard,
or shed labor so fast.
2.4      For an economy where the fiction of full employment had been
maintained for at least a decade if not the better part of two generations,
the extent of unemployment that has since emerged is unprecedented. But even
more problematic, none of the participants in the labor market - neither
ewployers (almost all are State agencies and enterprises), workers, nor state
inastitution responsible for labor market activities - is prepared to cope
with the now situation.
2.5      In the command economy, the choice of occupation and place of
employment was determined by the State. Bmiployment was guaranteed. State
decisions affecting the choice of education and curriculum for the individual
combined with work assignment left little room for freedom of individual
initiative. The idea of an individual having responsibility for his or her
own economic welfare, including the choice of education and search for a place
of work, was simply not part of the social mentality. Neither was the idea of
the employer as an entrepreneur with the responsibility for recruitment,
motivation, management, and maintenance of a work force. In fact, in the
extreme case represented by Albania, the State was the sole employer in the
economy. Labor allocation decisions were made centrally, in the same manner
that most other economic decisions were made. The concept of Government as a
facilitator - but not director - of this market exchange was completely
foreign. In short, no real labor market existed.
2.6      Today, not only are the rules of labor allocation changing, but the
entire economy is undergoing transformation. The mix of goods and services
and hence the mix of skills required, now subject to market forces, is taking
new shape. Bmployers faced with a competitive environment are obliged to
increase the productivity of workers through investments in new technologies
and modern skills. In addition, the dissolution of central planning has
created a need for a new cadre of managers and entrepreneurs to direct
competition from withbin the individual economic units.



-3-
2.7     Over time, the masive dislocations accompanying restru:turing wil
dinish.  I owevr, change is a regular feature, oven of more stOle market
economies,e and managing the social cost of economic change is essential in
those economies. Elcoomic change allows the movement of eonoic resources to
nmw, more producuive uses in expanding markets or where new production
technologies are being introduced. Labor likewise must be able to transfer
from less productive to more productive activities. While these changes raise
the wages of workers, increase the welfare of consumers, and lead to higher
standards of living, they can also mean dislocation costs for some, ao labor
is displaced in declining sectors and incomes are reduced in the transition to
expanding sectors.
2.8     To facilitate this change and manage its social costs, countries in
Western Europe and North America have combined active and passive labor market
interventions. Passive interventions protect the incomes of workers displaced
from jobs by economic aujustment. Unemployment benefits and social assistance
play this role. Active interventions are intended to support the unemployed
in their search for new job opportunities, increase the productivity of
workers, enhance their employability, and imp:wve the operatio of labor
markets. Examples of policies that increase productivity include retraining
and small enterprise development, while policies that improve the operation of
labor markets include the delivery of self-help advice to the unemployed, the
development and dissemination of labor market information, and provision of a
legal infrastructure to guide labor market transactions. The choice of how
active and passive labor market policies are combined in industrialized
countries differs, with some governments placing greater reliance on passive
policies (United States), while others emphasize active policies (continental
Europe). Still others (Japan) depend less on government and workers and more
on enterprises to absorb the cost of economic change.
2.9      Cost-benefit evaluations in OECD countries2 show that active
interventions can produce more than commensurate savings in passive incomes
aupport by reducing the time required to move displaced workers to new
employment. These policies are essential elements of the package of labor
market interventions, especially in a situation where income support program
impose an excessive burden oan the State budget. In Albania, where the number
of alternative job opportunities has been severely curtailed, the
corresponding return to such services would be reduced in the very early
stages of the transition, but could quickly increase once the economy starts
to pick up and new employment opportunities emerge.
2.10    As in similar trnssitional economies, the initial absence in Albania
of an effective institutional structure and policies to support labor market
operations is a major obstacle to successful transformation. The old command
structures are no longer relevant.  Market economies, to function effectively,
depend on information that is widely disseminated to buyers and sellers. This
is true for labor markets - for employers, workers, ond job seekers.  Labor
a/ lb. evalusations are reviewd and sumarisd in Davd Protwell, "DWlCpUi  Effeotiv. av1oynt
Sarvioea (WlorldDaft, September 1932.



-4-
market institutions providing efficient information exchange and self-help
leads and advice are needed, as are institutions to ensure the dvelopment of
modern skills for the market economy and to provide special targoted support
to the leos endowed or the less prepared. These institution and others must
function in an environment of laws, regulations, and policies that protect
property interests and govern fairly the terms and conditions of labor
exchange. These labor market institutions will need to be developed in
Albania if the labor market is to function as needed for successful economic
restructuring.
3. Labo r Markt DIStI& ULLs
2.11     In a modern labor market, institutions exist to: (a) faialitate
marett oerasions (defining the rules by which the market is regulated,
disseminating information to market participants, and when necessary,
facilitating negotiations between supply/labor and demand/management);
(b) strenathen DarticiDants' ability to iplav their resDective roles (improving
workers. technical skills and employers' managerial capacity, developing job
search skills and worker selection capacity, organizing workers, or employers,
unions); and tc) enur Drotection agaanst the social costs-of labor maket
adius=ents (providftng unemployment insurance and social assistance, providing
temporary employment opportunities during periods of high unemployment). In
most countries, both public and private resources are applied in developing
labor market institutions. In Albania, the private sector is only slowly
emerging as a viable force for assuming a major role in creating these
urgently needed institutions. Hence, the Government will be called on to lead
the way, while creating an environment that encourages the private sector to
enter as a credible partner in this process.
2.12 The institutions that most urgently require development, and hence
would be the object of this Project, are those providing sector-wide policy
development and support, employment services, skills training, and support for
aall business development. The Ministry of Labor (MOLSP) would play a key
role in leading or guiding these activities, particularly in the sbort to
medium term.
2.13     The Ministry of LabTr3  The MOLSP was established in April 1992.  It
assumed the labor market and social security functions of the former Committee
for Labor and Social Protection, including responsibility for setting labor
market policy, administering unemployment benefits and social assistance,4
promoting job-related emigration, facilitating reassimilation of former
political prisoners, and providing employment services in 31 local labor
3/ The Miistzy's full title is mniiatry of Labor. Emigration, Social Protection and sc-pofiticaly
Persecuted People.
A/ Traditiol social insurance programs (pensions, sickness benefits, etc.l were and stll are
administered by the (then) Directorate General of Social insurance in the ministry of Pieane. This
Diretorate Generl is now an autnomous state agency, the social Insurnce Intitute.



offices (LLOs) - one in each of the 27 districts of tho country and four in
Tirana.5 This Committee had boen in existence for lese than a year when the
Ministry was established. The LLO were formerly under the control of
district committees with functions limited to registration of job seeke;.s aud
labor placement. At the time when the Ministry was formed, the control of
these local offices was still being transferred to the central level, and the
staffing level was being increased to 160 persons.
2.14    The Ministry is therefore a new organization with a new staff and
substantial new responsibilities for policy and operatiors. In many areas of
responsibility, it is starting without benefit of experience or foundation. A
new legal framework has to be developed for the operation of labor markets.
Capacity to develop labor market policies on a wide range of issues covering
wages and employment standards, safety and health, industrial relations and
collective bargaining, and training and apprenticeship is required, together
with the information on which to base these policies and monitor their
implementation. The Ministry needs effective financial management and
personnel systems, an effective management structure for the local labor
offices, support for top management in strategic planning, and management
training for staff at all levels.
2.15     Under the previous regime, conditions of employment were regulated by
a labor code. This code is rigid, prescriptive, and unsuitable as a basis for
guiding the terms and conditions of labor exchange in a market economy. Few
of its provisions are being enforced, however, although it technically remains
in place, and it is not considered a major obstacle to labor market
development in its own right. The Ministry recognizes the need to replace
this code with one that is more appropriate to current circumstances, adding
coverage of activities such as labor-management relations not formerly covered
in the old code. The Ministry has moved ahead with this task, drawing on
documentation and examples from the International labor Organization (ILO),
and has just received commitment from the IW for assistance to complete the
task over the next three years.
2.16     Information on unemployment is gathered at the LWs and reported to
the Ministry on a monthly basis. Because the system is completely manual,
there is a delay of about two months before complete results are available at
the national level. It is not possible in the present circumstances, except
with considerable effort and delay, to analyze the characteristics of
unemployment for planning and targeting programs and services. There is a
need to begin to automate information systems, not only for labor policy
development but also for overall macroeconomic management, especially
monitoring budget implications of unemployment benefits. In the longer run,
labor market policy development, evaluation, and operations will require a
broader perspective of labor force activity than that provided by
administrative sources in LLOs. Registered unemployment usually captures only
a subset of job seekers, and better measures of unemployment and employment
J/ 1ho =wber of 1abo offieft has sinc. inreSed to 46 (ae par. 2.17).



- 6 -
rely oan household sample surveys. This capacity is presently missing and will
have to be built up in the future.
2.17        lgMr=  *oVae. The challenge facing the Ministry of Labor in
the near term is that of building capacity to cope with the needs of the
unemployed whose numbers continue to increase dramatically. The credibility
of Governmentos adjustment program depends on the success with which this
challenge is met. At present, one single task dominates LLO operations:
registration of the unemployed and payment of their benefits. When
unemployment benefits were established in November 1990, responsibility for
payment of benefits was shared by the enterprises and the LWOs with the latter
making payments to workers whose enterprises had disbanded and special groups
entitled to compensation (former conscripts, political prisoners, recent
university graduates, etc.). The disincentive effect of tying benefit
payments with the former employer was well recognized at the time, and it was
intended that all unemployment benefit payments would be made by LLO0 by
January 1993. That deadline has now been moved to July 1993, but despite the
best efforts to expand the physical and human resources of LLOs (by January
* 1993 the number of LLOs had been increased from 31 to 48 and the staff level
*  expanded from 160 to 519), it is evident that these offices will be unable to
cope with the large numbers of unemployed.
2.18     The staff in these offices have had limited or no training at all.
Clients file into the offices to deliver their work documents in crowded
conditions. Privacy is unknown. Clerks handle records by hand. Files are
stacked on the floor for lack of filing cabinets. At present, local
mnlicipalities continue to provide the space for labor offices which are
typically located in back corridors of municipal buildings with poor public
access. In one of the better offices in Tirana, visitors can find several
small rooms with two or three desks squeezed in and no modern office
equipment. These space and logistical limitations raise the specter of crowd
ontrol problems that could have serious political consequences. While the
management and staff of these offices are attempting to make the best of what
is a difficult situation, there is little hope under the present circumstances
that these offices will be able to deliver the services expected of them
without improvements in the registration and payment system.
2.19     In the medium term, these improved systems, as well as the eventual
decline in the numbers of benefit recipients, would free the LLOs to apply
their resources to delivery of more proactive services for the unemployed.
Sven with the necessary time and physical resources, the delivery of OBCD-
style proactive services would itself be an exceptionally difficult
undertaking for ILOs. In a situation of very high unemployment, the numbers
of unemployed seeking work will greatly outnumber the available jobs. Under
such circumstances, it is useful to invest in simple advisory and self-help
services such as training in job search skills and job clubs for the
unemployed which have been shown to be cost effective even when there are few
job vacancy listings, and vocational assessment and counseling. Even more
important in a situation where their own capacity to deliver services is
extremely limited, LL4Ds should play a "gateway" function for the unemployed,
referring them to other services in the community that would help them return



-7-
to productive employment (such as skills training and small butiness
promotion, discussed in paras. 2.21-2.28 below).
2.20     While many unemployed will be able to find new jobs on their own,
the types of services offered in public employment offices have been shown to
be most helpful in the case of the long term unemployed and low/semi-skilled
workers, those needing them most. However, whether it is to deliver
unemployment benefits, to provide proactive services or to refer the
unemployed to other community services, the potential of the Ministry and its
LLOs to assist the unemployed is limited without benefit of rudimentary
automation and basic office facilities, improved procedures, and training for
staff and office managers.
2.21    Skills Trainina. Virtually all members of today's work force will
require some skills training, if only to understand how a market economy
functions and what their rights and obligations are under the new rules of
competition. Many will require more than this. Most existing enterprises,
their capital and technology obsolete, will either be unable to compete in a
market economy and will simply close their doors, or will need wholesale
modernization of their production technologies. Workers in these enterprises
will need to develop new skills for the jobs that emerge. Competition and
privatization will also create a large-scale need for managerial and
entrepreneurial skills not presently available in these enterprises, as well
as office support skills needed to maintain managerial efficiency and
competitiveness. In the near future, the growth of small enterprises in the
merging private sector, particularly in a new service sector, holds the best
hope for job creation; these enterprises will require individuals with a
combination of technical or service-specific skills as well as minimum
managerial capacity.
2.22    The capacity of workers to adapt to the new technologies and skill
requirements of a market economy begins with their educational foundation:
that is, their literacy, and numerical and problem-solving skills. Although
not on par with other European (both Eastern and Western) countries and
seriously deteriorated over the last two years, access to and quality of basic
education in Albania in the past had been fair when measured against its
resource availability. Professional and technical training is offered by the
Ministry of Education at secondary and university level; 68 percent of
secondary schools and 60 percent of students in secondary education are in the
vocational stream. However, the focus in these programs is on pre-employment
training (i.e., before entry into the labor force), lacking the flexibility
required for the working population who have more rigid time constraints and
more specific/narrow learning objectives. In addition, the programs are
highly theoretical due to the lack of equipment.
2.23     ?or the work force already in place on whom transition in the short
and medium term will depend, there is little institutional capacity available
to meet the demand for retooling. Whatever training capacity had been
developed for workers in enterprises (as in other countries in Central and
Eastern Europe) has since been abandoned under pressure of more urgent



- 0 -
problems or simply disappeared with the closing down of enterprises. A
private sector, offering skills training, has only begun to emerge.
2.24    The retraining of a work force requires a different approach to that
used in pro-employment training. Workers need flexible training schedules
that allow them to enter and exit programs as their employment opportunities
or work schedules permit. Training also needs to be competency-based rather
than time-based, permitting workers to spend the minimum amount of time needed
to achieve specified levels of productivity. Most important, training needs
to be responsive to existing or anticipated employment growth to avoid wastage
of scarce resources. Establishing a policy environment that encourages this
type of demand-driven training must become a high priority concern for
Government. This is best done by attaching performance-based criteria (e.g.,
placement of trainees in jobs or cost recovery) to publicly-funded or provided
training programs.
2.25     Finally, Government must recognize that it does not have the
institutional capacity or the flexibility to respond to all training needs.
It must therefore offer incentives - in the form of financial assistance for
example - to encourage private sector provision both in training institutions
and, for on-the-job training, in enterprises.
2.26     Small Busineas Develonment. In many countries, small business (SB)
development is regarded as an important source of jobs for the unemployed, and
program to help displaced workers start their own firms are offered as part
of the package of proactive employment services. While international
experience shows that only a small portion (two to three percent) of the
unemployed successfully use this option, the present unusual circumstances in
Albania - the almost total absence of a SB sector at the start of the
transition, the rapid expansion in the sector over the last year, and the
evident need for more small-scale manufacturing and service enterprises in the
new market economy - promise a higher success rate.
2.27    Many useful services can be offered to help promote 8Bs in Albania.
Technical advice on business planning, management, accounting and legal
matters is needed as are access to facilities, office support, and credit for
both investment and working capital. There are several initiatives underway,
the largest being funded by the Buropean Community(SC)/PHARP  Program which is
promoting 8B development through eight regional SB agencies that provide
assistance in the preparation of business plans and credit to new 8Bs as well
as through assistance to Government in adjusting SB legislation and
regulations. The project unit and its agencies have provided business
seminars throughout Albania and have supported the creation of over 170
business plans by the end of 1992, and the provision of 300,000 ECUs of credit
to 83B. Program assistance stops, however, once the credit is granted, and
there is no further support for start-up and operation of the businesses.  The
SC project management is therefore keen to work with external training and
information service providers, including the Fund proposed under the present
Project.



- 9 -
2.28    Another source of support for Sas is business associations.
Currently there are two such organizations in Albania: the Chamber of Commerce
and the Association of Private Entrepreneurs. The Chamber has existed since
1920 and is currently being reconstituted with an increased focus toward SBa.
The Chamber has approximately 1700 members, of which about 1500 are small and
medium sized. The Association is primarily composed of businesses involved in
small retail or importing activities, a number of which were involved in
disputes with the government about the terms imposed upon them after
privatization. Both organizations are based in Tirana and as yet have not
branched out to other towns.
C. Government strat&ov
2.29     Social Protection for the Unemoloved. Under present conditions of
very high unemployment, the Government has little choice but to focus its
efforts in the employment sector on coping with short-term problems of the
unemployed, which revolve around income support. This includes assisting
those who will soon be falling out of the unemployment insurance program and
therefore will need alternative sources of support in the form of means-tested
social assistance. Appropriate formulation of this social safety net, in
particular determining the levels of assistance affordable under Government's
stringent budgetary constraints, has received priority attention, but setting
up the administrative system to deliver benefits in a way that is perceived as
caring and responsive, not demeaning, is also essential. The unemployed
should see this system as a first line of defense against the social fallout
of adjustment.
2.30     Government intends to reorganize social safety net arrangements for
the unemployed in two principal directions. First, an unemployment insurance
system, linked increasingly to contributions, would be established as part of
the general social insurance system and administered by the Social Insurance
Institute (8Sn). Labor offices would, however, continue to make payments to
the unemployed, while the SIX would be responsible for collection and
recording of contributions, and overall financial management of unemployment
benefit funds. The new Social Insurance Law to be presented to Parliament in
April 1993 authorizes these new arrangements. In addition, it converts
unemployment insurance to a flat rate benefit, thus eliminating the present
administrative complication of computing awards based on past wages. Second,
a social assistance program for those not eligible for unemployment insurance
and otherwise in need would be established. This program would be
administered by the central level MOLSP through local governments, hence
freeing LL0s from their current burden of making such payments. This would be
particularly important because the number of individuals falling out of the
unemployment insurance system is ixpected to swell starting in mid-1993.
2.31     The present Project would provide assistance to the MOLSP to improve
the efficiency of registration and payment of the unemployed through its labor
offices. The proposed Technical Assistance Project for Social Safety Net
Development being processed in tandem with this Project would provide the



- 10 -
necessary assistance to the Six to improve administration of social insurance
programs and to the Mm0sP to support the introduction of the new socil
assistance program.
2.32     Providina Proactive Serices and P tina  lovmgnt. Uaemployment
benefit payments are expected to peak in July 1993, after which the large
numbers affected by the public administration and enterprise reforms of
July/August 1992 will reach the limits of their twelve-month entitlement
period. While there are likely to be significant numbers of new unemployed
entering the system in subsequent months, the formal sector covered by the
original scheme will already have shrunk considerably and therefore the net
flows will start to decline sharply before stabilizing at a lower level in
1994. As its unemployment benefit-related work begins to level off, the MOLSP
intends to start building up capacity to deliver proactive employment services
- developing self-help skills among the unemployed, providing information on
job openings to workers and on available skills to employers, referring
clients to other employment promotion services, and channeling financial
resources to facilitate clients' access to these services.
2.33     starting first on an experimental scale and gradually building up to
full-scale implementation, the MOLSP would develop the full package of
services to be delivered through its network of LLOs. Given the broader scope
of services to be offered and the larger number of clients, the Ministry
intends to reorganize its field services for the purpose of improving
management of service delivery. The plan calls for organizing the labor
offices into a system of nine regions, with a lead office in each region to
provide a base for regional management and to act as a channel for
communications to and from the head office in Tirana. These nine offices,
located in the principal urban areas, would receive priority in capacity-
building efforts.
2.34     Not all services needed for labor market development and particularly
to help the unemployed can be provided by the LLOs. one important element of
the package of employment services will be the "gatewayu role of LWs by which
the unemployed are referred to various support services available in the local
community intended to help promote employment. Principal among these services
will be retraining programs to help the unemployed acquire new, more
marketable skills (such as the ones to be financed under this troject),
programs to promote small business development (like the one established with
assistance from NC/PHARP) and, particularly in situations of high
unemployment, programs to provide temporary jobs to the unemployed (as will be
offered through the rural infrastructure component of the recently approved
World Bank-funded Rural Poverty Alleviation Project). A wide variety of such
programs are used in different countries, and it is not clear a priori which
ones will work best in Albania. There would need to be a period of testing
before longer-term choices can be made. The MOLSP plans to encourage start-up
of such programs immediately by offering financial assistance to local NGOs or
private entrepreneurs interested in organizing them.
2.35     Develonina the Trainina Sector.. The Government intends to promote
the rapid build-up of adult training capacity in the country to meet the



- 11 -
already immense and growing retraining needs of those already In the labor
force. The MNOLSP will take the lead in this development, although it does not
intend to accomplish this alone. Rather, it aims to maximize private sector
involvement in training delivery as well as in the financing of training
progrars. The Ministry proposes a two-pronged strategy to accomplish its
goal. It intends to: (a) establish a Pilot Training Center to jump-start the
supply of training services and to serve as a model for a high quality,
demand-responsive adult training institution; and (b) make financial
assistance available to training institutions, private or public, that meet
certain criteria of quality and demand-responsiveness as well as to
entrepreneurs wishing to offer on-the-job training in new skill areas. With
assistance from IDA, the MOL8P has prepared a project proposal for the Pilot
Training Center, for which it is seeking external assistance in parallel to
the proposed Project.
2.36     During these early stages, particular emphasis will be given to
maintaining flexibility in the selection of courses offered or financed
through Government-sponsored programs. In the present stage of Albania's
economic transition, there is much uncertainty about which new productive
areas will emerge after restructuring has been accomplished, and hence what
types of skills training will be appropriate. There is speculation as to
promising new areas (e.g., tourism) but in most cases not enough certainty to
justify the initial investment required for program start-up.- One broad area
about which there is little doubt - and where the private training sector is
already responding - is the need for modern entrepreneurial management skills
and the services needed to support management (e.g., computer literacy,
business management and accounting, office support, foreign languages). The
Ministry thus intends to promote training in these limited areas, leaving the
possibility for later expansion as other specific needs are identified. At
the same time, by building in demand-based criteria (e.g., job placement
performance, cost recovery, flexible entry/exit) in allocating financial
resources for training, it will establish a mechanism by which new training
needs can be monitored.
2.37     Seekina and Coordinatino External Assistance.  None of the above
activities can be carried out without significant infusion of resources.
These resources will include technical assistance to help in the development
of policies and programs in areas for which there is practically no
accumulated experience in the country, as well as physical and human resources
to establish delivery systems for field-based services, including employment
services and training. Programs to promote employment will require financing
to cover not only the costs of labor but also of any other inputs required to
support the productive activity being undertaken. The bulk of these resources
will have to come from external sources, and the MOLSP is seeking such
assistance from the international donor community. The present Project will
represent an important intervention in the Government's labor market
development efforts, not only because of the size of financing involved but
also because it focuses on building the foundations for longer-term
development in the sector, while taking into account current emergency reeds.
The MOLSP intends to use a-tivities being initiated under the Project as the
organizational framework around which other assistance would be oriented. In



- 12 -
particular, the Training, Enterprise and Employment Fund to be established in
the Project (paras. 3.17-3.25) will provide a mechanism by which support from
external donors could be channeled to training and employment promotion
activities in both the public and private sectors.
D. M&kg &lol and Strateav
2.38     The development of a more flexible labor market is a key element of
the Albanian economic reform program supported by IDA. A streamlined,
respcnsive, yet fiscally responsible unemployment benefits administration
underpins the social contract in this delicate phase of transition, and
promotes resource mobility. Public labor market services will also serve as
catalysts for private sector-led and community-based training, advisory and
microenterprise development initiatives, deserving selective public seed money
and promotional assistance under the TERF. IDA's international experience with
establishing demand-driven training finance schemes, and leaderesip in
designing targeted funding mechanisms in Albania through the Rural Poverty
Alleviation project (FY93), is critical to the success of the TEEF. Enhancing
worker skills as employees or owners of small businesses supports actions
taken to restructure the agriculture, industry, and finance sectors, notably
through the proposed Enterprise and Banking Restructuring Project (FY94), and
complements the longer-term human capital investments to be assisted under the
proposed Schools Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance (FY9SS) and Health
Rehabilutation (FY94) Projects. The Project is also a close complement to, and
is being processed in parallel with, the Technical Assistance Project for
Social Safety Net Development, which helps implement broader social insurance
and social assistance reforms.
2.39     The proposed Project is a poverty-related operation.  It provides a
basis for development of active labor markets in Albania during the difficult
transition period. It supports a more efficient benefit delivery system, and
initiates employment services to assist the unemployed to return more rapidly
to the job market. It also establishes a framework for channelling public
resources and external aid to private sector and community-based providers
offering services to the unemployed.
2.40     The proposed Project is designed to be simple, with a short (four-
year) implementation period. It includes only the earliest and most urgent
intervention  needed to lay the groundwork for future institutional
development and to jump-start delivery of training and employment services.
Any future projects would build on this foundation with an even greater
emphasis on private sector involvement in service delivery.



- 13 -
uz.-
A. Po.t  bet-tv   and DOaroe o
3.1      Pzcgje  Obetys   The Project will assist thle Gcvernmient in
creating as rapidly as possible the policy and institutional conditions for
the development of an active and responsive labor market. Specifically, it
aims to establish institutional structures and build in-country experience to:
(a) develop and manage labor market policies that support the trzanstion
to a market economy;
(b) improve the operation of local labor off$ces in providing income
support and modest redeployment assistance to the unemployed; and
(c) increase the productivity and employability of the work force through
training and small business promotion activities.
3.2      Prolect Descrintion.   The Project has three components, organized in
two parts, involving a total cost of approximately US$6.0 million:
Part I: NSTITUTIONAL DEVRLOPNHNT
(a) Nationa Labor Policy: strengthen capacity within the MOLSP to
develop national labor policies through: (i) support for strategic
planning and management; (ii) improved collection of labor market
information; and (iii) establishment of a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) monitoring all externally-funded M4OLSP activities (US$1.1
million).
(b)} Local Institutional Develonment: improve the operation and
management of employment services through: (i) improved efficiency of
registration and benefit payment for the unemployed; and
(i$) development of two pilot full-service local labor offices
(US$1.8 million).
Part TI: TRAINING,. ENTERPRISE AND EMPLOYMENT FUND
(c) The Tra$nina. Enterbrise and Emolovnient Fund (TEEF): develop a
mechanism for channeling resources to sub-projects that would
encourage flexible, demand-driven training or promote the creation of
small enterprises. Specific activities that would be eligible for
funding include training services, job insertion (on-the-job)
training and small business incubators (US$3.1 million).



- 14 -
D.  ProAt Cornont-
Part I:  INSTITUTIONI DEVRW Z   (W8229 MILIWL
3.3      This part of the Project aims to develop public sector institutions
responsible for labor market policies and programs. At the national level,
the Ministry of Labor will receive support to strengthen its policy-making and
planning capacities. At the lgcal level, labor offices will receive
assistance to improve service delivery to the unemployed.
National Lakbor Policy (US1.l . million)
3.4      The MOLSP, a very young organization, is at the center of many
critical decisions shaping restructuring and its social consequences. It is
also charged with administering a broad range of programs, most of them
totally new or undergoing radical change. This component will assist the
Ministry to build its capacity for planning and management of labor market
policies and programs. it has three subcomponents: (a) development of a
strategic plan for the Ministry, together with refinement of its
organizational structure and training for key staff; (b) improving labor
market information; and (c) establishing a Project Coordination unit (PCU). A
project to refine and develop labor legislation will be implemented by the IL0
(under Swiss Government funding) in parallel and in close collaboration with
activities of this component.6
3.5      Strateric Plannino and-Manaarement (USSO.4 million).  Project
aetivities to support stratecric plannina and manaaemnt will include:
(a) examination of alternatives and development of an organizational framework
for the Ministry of Labor that includes, but is not limited to, activities of
labor protection, unemployment benefit administration and employment services,
apprenticeship and training, labor market information, industrial relations,
emigration, social assistance, ex-political prisoners and general
administration; (b) development of an action plan and timetable for
implementation of key functione; (c) development and implementation of a staff
training program to support the framework; and (d) provision of physical
infrastructure at the national office to support implementation of the new
framework.
3,6      Labor Market Information (USSO.3 million).  Among the most urgent
functions of the MOLSP is the collection of labor market information.
Statistics on employment, unemployment, and wages for geographic areas and
/ Specific action. to be undertaken include: (a) preparation of a draft labor code. including coverage of
apprenticeship ed training. layoffs and dismissals, hours of work and leve, labor protection for women
and childre,. and code administrations (b) drafting of wage legislation in cooperation with the Ministry
of Finance. including elements relating to mininm wage and non-wage benefits, e.g.. pension7;
(c) drafting of an industrial relations law covering tripartism. rights of unins and enterprises to
bargain collectively, and dispute resolution p_ocedure; (d) drafting of an occupatioaal safety and
health law; and (e) training for implementation and administration of labor legislation.



- 15 -
demographic groups are important to a wide range of users, inclu"dg
employers, workers and their representatives, the unemployed, managers of
labor market and training programs, researchers, and policy-makers. the
Project will support the improvement of labor statistics from administrative
sources (i.e., local labor offices and the social insurance program). It will
lay the groundwork for subsequent expansion of labor statistics from census
and survey sources by first developing the readily available and less costly
statistics from administrative sources. It will promote the timely production
of these statistics, introduce procedures and training to improve their
reliability, and provide training for Ministry staff to analyze and present
the data for administrators and policy-makers.
3.7     Among the activities to be undertaken in this regard will be the
adaptation of international occupational and industry coding to the Albanian
context. Manual recording systems in local labor offices and automated
systems in regional labor offices for registration of the unemployment - to be
introduced under the component on Local Institutional Development (paras.
3.10-3.13 below) - are an integral part of the data collection system. These
two project activities will be implemented together to ensure consistency in
approach.
3.8      Prolect Coordination Ugit (PCU) (SMf .4jmillion).  Finally, a small
unit to cordinate nroiegt activities will be established in the Ministry.
The PCU will ensure that implementation of project activities are carried out
as planned by the respective implementing units within and outside the
Ministry, and that procurement of goods and services necessary for such
implementation is accomplished in a timely manner (see para. 4.5 below). This
unit will also coordinate implementation of the social assistance component of
the proposed Social Safety Net Project (para. 2.31). As the Ministry's
program of development advances and additional projects are started - probably
with external assistance - within the framework of that program, the PCU will
be responsible for overall coordination of such projects. Nhen this happens,
it will require (and will be provided with) additional resources, not included
under this Project, to allow it to take on this expanded role.
3.9      For this component, the Project will finance, for strategic planning
and management - six months of technical assistance, nine months of
fellowships, and one vehicle, equipment and materials needed for improving the
physical infrastructure of the national office; for labor market information -
eight months of technical assistance, nine months of fellowships, and basic
materials; and for the PCU - ten months of technical assistance to manage and
coordinate project implementation, four months of fellowships for key PCM
staff to be trained in Bank procedures, a small amount of civil works for
refurbishing of the PCU office, three computer workstations, one vehicle and
office supplies.
Local Institutional Develcpment (USSi.8 million)
3.10     The first contact between the unemployed individual and the public
services set up to assist him is made at the local labor office. At present,
these offices are more than fully occupied with registration and payment of



- 16 -
benefits. Their most urgent need is for technical and logistical assistance
to streamline registration and payment procedures.  As the number of benefit
recipients declines, these offices should gradually be able to shift attention
to more proactive services This component will improve the efficiency of
local labor offices in providing income support and labor redeployment
services to the unemployed.  It has two subomponents: (a) improving the
efficiency of registration aud benefit payment procedures; and (b) developing
two pilot full-service local labor offices.
3.11     Reaistration for Unemnlovnant Pavments (USSl.2 million).  Effective
benefit administration requires support for the collection and analysis of
data related to individuals to whom unemployment benefits are being paid.
This support will be aimed at improving data collection, storage, and access
procedures. These processes are currently accomplshed manually; as a result,
processing is time-consuming and difficult to manage from a quality
perspective. In addition, aggregating data for analysis is an extremely
labor-intensive process resulting in management information which is rarely
timely or reliable (para. 2.16). The Project will provide assistance to:
(a) develop an overall concept for benefit administration to address these
problems within the constraints imposed by the existing infrastructure,
applying a combination of low-level automation and manual procedures;
(b) develop and implement an action plan including development of office
procedures for both manual and automated data processing, software application
design, site preparation for regional offices, hardware and software
acquisition, pilot testing, training of users in regional and local offices,
and data conversion; and (c) establish an on-going monitoring and reporting
mechanism for system operation and benefit administration.
3.12     Automated support will be provided to the nine regional offices of
the MOLSP as well as to selected central office functions. This support will
focus on the development of regional files and databases of beneficiary
information gathered from the local offices as a result of the application,
certification, and recertification processes. Piles will be established at
the regional and national levels to provide managers at each level with
information about individual program participation. Management information
will be aggregated to provide regional as well as national level reports. In
conjunction with this automation, improved manual procedures will be developed
at the local, regional, and national levels.
3.13     The technology solution envisioned is shaped by the realities of the
Albanian environment. Specifically, the telecommunications environment is not
sophisticated enough to rely on automated file transfers, nor is the
electrical power delivery system reliable. As a result, procedures will be
developed to transfer information between regions and the central office on
diskettes (or, when appropriate, CDROM). Information transfer between the
regions and the local offices will be paper-based. The technology will
consist of one stand-alone workstation in each regional office, i.e., a
desktop computer with required peripheral devices. Electrical power
reliability will be enhanced through the use of UPS devices which will be
acquired as part of the configuration for each workstation. In addition,



- 17 -
simple ooftware development tools (a spreadsheet program and a database
management program) will be acquired for application development.
3.14     &mDlovment Sricgegs (178*0.6 mllllon).  Unemployment benefit payment
is only one of a large package of services normally offered in labor offices.
Eventually, the MOLSP intends to use these offices to deliver more proactive
services to help the unemployed return to work. Taking advantage of the two-
to three-year lead-time before countrywide availability of full-service labor
offices becomes cost-iffective, the MOLSP will experiment with various
approaches to delivery of proactive services through the establishment of zg
nilot full-service offices. One of the pilot regions will be Tirana, and the
second will be determined by mutual agreement between IDA and the MOLSP before
the end of the first project year, that is, before activities on the pilot
regions begin.
3.15    Among the activities to be developed in the pilot offices will be:
(a) job vacarcy information and job referral; (b) job counselling and self-
help job search programs (job clubs, simple aptitude/interest assessment
techniques and occupational information for use with clients, etc.);
(c) employer services and job development; (d) mass layoff advisory techniques
to ameliorate the impact on communities affected; and {e) management and
administration of local employment services. Referral to external support
services such as retraining opportunities and small business support (the
"gateway" function) will also constitute part of the package. This activity
will be phased in earlier and on a larger scale (i.e., beyond the pilot
offices) as such community support services become available through the
Training, Enterprise and Bmployment Fund to be established under the next
component of this Project (paras. 3.17 - 3.25).
3.16     For this component, the Project will finance, for registration and
payment of the unemployed - 25 months of technical assistance, vehicles,
computer equipment, furniture and materials for workstations in each of the
nine regional offices, and related operating costs; for the pilot offices - 11
months of technical assistance, 18 months of fellowship training, equipment,
furniture and materialo, and 4.1 years of local consultancy services.
PART II: TRAINING, MENTEPRISE AND EMPLIDYMNT FnND (TMEP) (US53.1 MILLION)
3.17    Oblectives of the Fund. Like its counterparts in most middle and
upper level income countries, the TEFP will serve as a mechanism for
channeling public resources to sub-projects that encourage and facilitate
adult training and deployment of labor to new employment opportunities.
Though usually managed by public or publicly-owned autonomous agencies, these
Funds do not themselves execute projects. Rather, sub-projects are executed
by other public or private institutions which must compete for Fund resources
under pro-defined qualification and selection criteria, often linked to labor
market demand-responsiveness. This component will create a Training,
Enterprise and Employment Fund and make a one-time contribution to its
funding. Two broad types of sub-projects have been initially identified for



- l8 -
Fund financing: (i) adult training services and job insertion (on-the-job)
training: and (ii) entrepreneurship assistance, including development of small
business incubators and clubs. though not necassatily limited to these types
of activities, Project assistance will focus on the design and management of
sub-projects submitted to the Fund in these areas. The principal target
poprilation for the Fund will be the registered unemployed.
3.18     Mlun  maDemont and Technical A8ssitapNe 18l Io mjuilQl. Although
there is one Fund, proposal criteria, reimbursable costs, and administrative
procedures will vary between the two major types of sub-projects (training and
entrepreneurship).  Financina of trainina  ub-prolcts will include the unit
costs of training selected groups of the unemployed tbrough training contracts
and job insertion contracts. Contracts for training services will be open for
competition to all providers, public or private. To ensure demand-
responsiveness, providers will be required to commit to placement rates for
trainees of between 40 and 60 percent; failure to meet this requirement would
jeopardize the provider's chances for furtber access to Fund resources. Other
criteria will include modes of delivery that are suitable to an adult
population (short-term, flexible entry and exit) and evidence of the
institution's capacity to deliver proposed services and maintain auditable
accounts. Contracts for job insertion programs will be open to enterprises,
public' or private, offering newly-created jobs for which training in new
skills is reruired for productive employment. Commitment to retain 50 to 70
percent of trainees will be required, as well as a well-defined training plan
for participants. For both training and job insertion sub-projects, the Fund
will cover normal costs of training (though not routine production costs in
the case of on-the-job training) and will provide a stipend for trainees.
Detailed sub-project selection, funding, and administrative criteria are
spelled out in more detail in Annex A.
3.19    Financina of VntrernuAWM=  Rvloament Sub-Prolets is intended to
enhance the capacity of NGoQ or other organizations in selected comuunities to
promote small businesses and develop entrepreneurship skills. 8mall business
incubators will provide technical and logistical assistance to new small
businesses to improve their chances of survival and growth. They will offer,
under a single roof: (i) support facilities including affordable space;
(ii) access to shared office facilities such as telephone, photocopying, fax
machine, meeting room, etc.; and (iii) support services such as small business
credit and management advice. Businesses will be required to move to other
premises once they have stabilized or after a fixed period of time (e.g., no
longer than three years). The incubator is itself run as an enterprise, often
though not necessarily by an ROO or a local government. Organizations
interested in establishing such incubators will compete for Fund resources on
the basis of pro-forma pre-development proposals. Selected organizations will
then receive: (a) technical assistance to prepare detailed plans for
management, facility design and equipment requirements, provision of services,
operation of working capital fund, and start-up assistance; and (b) Fund
resources, on a grant basis, for the establishment of the incubator,
V  Budget institutiow (i.e..  Mintries) will be disqualified from rcelving contract.



- 19 -
including, if appropriate, a revolving fund for smll short-term working
capital credits to participating enterprises. Because of the relatively high
cost of incubators, only one or two of them will be established, on a pilot
basis, through the Project.
3.20    Fund resources may also be made available for the establishment of
small business clubs or assgiatiea in cities and towns. These clubs will:
(i) promote the exchange of information between successful small business
entrepreneurs and those interested in starting a small business;
(ii) disseminato information and educational materials; and (iii) facilitate
cooperative ventures among local businessmen. isdividuals or groups
interested in establishing such associations will apply for Fund resources,
which could be used to finance association expenses, including small stipends
for one or two "organizers" who would carry leadership obligations within the
association. Preference will be given to organizers who are themselves
successful entrepreneurs and who can offer access to premises for club
meetings and other occasional activities. Fund resources will also be made
available for the preparation of educational materials for dissemination to
participating clubs. Because there is less experience worldwide in the
application of employment and training funds to the creation of small business
clubs, additional preparation and field testing is needed before this activity
is adopted unaquivocally. This will be pursued during implementation.
Detailed sub-project selection, funding, and administrative criteria are
presented in Annex A.
3.21    Fund  gndowmont l(u8S2.1 million). Control of the Fund will rest with
an autonomous body under the supervision of the MOLSP. The Fund will be
operated by an Executive Committee (consisting of an Executive Director, a
Financial Director, a Director for Training, and a Director for Small
Business) that will be responsible for routine operations and will review
project proposals and award grants up to an amount of one million leke
(approximately US$10,000). The Executive Committee will report to a Board of
Trustees of seven members with tripartite representation, chaired by the
Minister of Labor. The Board will set policies, set annual budgets, and
review project proposals in excess of one million leks. Sub-projects costing
over ten million leks (approximately US$100,000), will be subject to prior IDA
approval. In addition, all sub-projects below this amount will be subject to
IDA approval until TI's mechanisms are satisfactory to IDA. During
negotiations, aguXamm were obtained from the aovernment to this effect. A
'Government decision establishing the Fund and defining its management
structure is attached as Annex B; it has been agreed in principle by MOLSP and
IDA.
3.22    Fund management is expected to work in close collaboration with the
MOLSP's network of labor offices which would serve as the primary link between
the Fund and its target beneficiaries, the unemployed population. Labor
offices will serve as a "gateway" by screening and referring job seekers to
training services, employers for job insertion training, or potential
entrepreneurs to small business incubators or clubs. Job seekers eligible for
Fund services will include unemployment insurance beneficiaries, those whose
benefits bave beum exhausted, social assistance claimants, and graduates who



- 20 -
have remained unemployed for a minimum of six months. Bach of the MiiLAtry's
nine regional labor offices will have a full-time person assigned to Fund
activities and responsible for regional contract administration and
disbursements. In addition, all local labor offices will have at least one
staff member responsible for Fund marketing, project developmeat, and contract
supervision. If the Fund proves successful, it may decide to open its own
offices in regions that are particularly active. At least until such time,
the Fund will rely heavily on labor offices for the above support.
3.23     The Project will provide an initial endowment of US$2.1 million for
the Fund. Although such funds are usually established and maintained through
employer payroll tax contributions and/or general revenues in other CBS
countries, this would not be a realistic expectation in Albania. Hence the
Fund will need to be replenished through external sources for the foreseeable
future, assuming this initial test phase proves successful. IDA resources for
the Fund will be provided on a grant basis, and therefore will not be paid
back to the Government.
3.24     In addition to the Fund endowment, the Project will provide technical
assistance in three broad areas, including: (a) final design of the Fund
framework involving the development of a strategy and materials for marketing
Fund activities, training of Fund and labor office staff, developing internal
Fund management and supervision activities, and developing systems to evaluate
Fund activities; (b) development of model contracts for training and job
insertion projects, and training of staff in the initiation and supervision of
these contracts; and (c) preparation of business plans for incubators,
provision of assistance for development and start-up of up to two incubators,
and provision of organizational and educational support for small business
clubs, including materials for dissemination through the mass media, etc.
For these activities, the Project will finance 24 months of technical
assistance, 11 months of fellowships, salaries of Fund management and staff,
and equipment and materials, including up to two vehicles to be used for
training, marketing, and supervision activities.
3.25       Duil neactiation, the Government and IDA agreed on: (a) the
selection criteria and reimbursement categories for activities to be financed
under the Pund; and (b) the contents of the service agreement to be
established between the Fund and the MOLSP. As a condition of disbursement
for sub-projects under the Fund, TENF shall adopt regulations defining, among
other things, clients to be served, costs, etc.; these regulations shall be
acceptable to ImA.
Iv. PROJECT COSTS. FINMNCING. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Prolect Costs
4.1      Summary of Protect Costs.  The total project cost is estimated at
about US$6.0 million equivalent (628 million leks), including contingencies



- 21 -
amting to US$0.S million which represent 9 percent of the base cost
(US$5.5 million). The project cost includes the provision of technical
assistance, fellowshps and training, furniture ad equipment, training
materials and software, minor refurbishing of facilities, and incremental
operating costs incurred during the implementation period. The estimated
costs by component and zategory of expenditure are shown in Tables 4.1 and
4.2, respectively, and further detailed in Anex C.



- 22 -
Tabl4. 1: sO= 2 7=
(Millio)
tbk                                  UN                                  losta
................    ..........................   I Poer- in X               e
Loua    P1o.in        Total         Local   orein    Tl ett           Iduw         Cos
...........~. ...............  .. ,.... ....................... ....................................._ ...........
A . Itlwt Paotty
1. Pltn                                  1.5       35.0       36.5           0.0        0.3       0.4           95.9        6.3
2  L_r   areu t tZfoetimn                0.3       29.5       29.8           0.0        0.3       0.3           99.1        5.2
3. PoJect Coordination Unit              3.6       30.5       34.0           0.0        0.3       0.3           O9.5         5.9
.........................        ..................................................... -..* .................................. ..........
Sub-Tout                                      5.3      94.9       100.3           0.1       0.9       1.0           94.?        17.4
O . Loel Intltuttonal Dev.
1. wI4 ay-.fgmi/Paybnta                 1S.7       99.0      117.6           0.2        1.0       1.1           64.1       20.4
2. Labor Offic Ios      oy.swv.         4.6       47.0       51.6           0.0        0.5       0.5           91.2        9.0
&b.Total                                     a2        146.0      169.2           0.2       1.4        1.6          $6.3        29.4
C . TRE fI (TIF)
1. FPw  ftt. NW TA                       4.3       79.3       5.7            0.0        0.8       0.8           94.6       14.S
2. Fwm   aoswces                        33.4      19.4       222.6           0.3        1.6       2.1           85.0       30.7
............................ ...................................*-v*^****v^ .. ,-v*
Iah.Totat                                  3V.6       2.?         3W6.5           0.4       2.6        2.9          67.7        53.2
-................ ----------------- .   ......................... .......................... .............................. ..........
Total  ALhth  mTS O6.                                  509.7      576.0           0.6       4.9        5.5          68.5       100.0
Physical contiuuiues                      3.3       32.0        35.3           0.0       0.3       0.3           90.7        6.1
Price Cmntlutgmcles                       23        14.6        17.1           0.0       0.1       0.2           86.6        3.0
=__.......                       ... ... , Y  ..... 5.i......       ................... ... ...._..
Tout PJCT         MCS                       71.9       56.5       426.4           0.?       5.4        6.0          6.6        109.1
*........... .................................................... _ .............................................
TLal.2: P                   T CBST 1RY BY CQTGORY OF R                            DIXTURI
(Million)
tek                                  US                               X Total
...._.......... .............    ....... ..-.-*---------................   X Fwf n        on
Local   Foreign       Tott          Local  ForeIgn    Total         Exbw.          Costs
.. ._............................................................ .............................................   ....................
1. ut_TuW  COn
......... ... ... ....
A. Civit  lors                             6.7         2.T        9.4           0.1        0.0       0.1          29.0         1.6
o. VehIclZe                                 1.7       33.0       34.7           0.0        0.3       0.3          f5.0         6.0
C.  qdpmt an  Materfal                     2.A        54.0       56.8           0.0       0.5        0.5          95.0         9.9
0.  echniectl Aeslsteme                    1.1       176.1      177.2           0.0        1.7       1.7          99.4        30.6
S. Troflniw                               0.0        42.6       42.6           0.0        0.4       0.4         100.0         7.4
F. F                                      33.4      1A.4        222.6           0.3        1.S       2.1          85.0        3s.7
... ............. ............ ................ &............................ ........ .....................   ....................
Tout IUVESITN                             45.6      498.0       543.6           0.4       4.8        5.2          9.6         94.4
It. nramni wmis
.................
A. SolarIs                                 3.6         0.0        3.6           0.0        0.0       0.0            0.0        0.6
B. Vehicet M                               3.6         2.9        6.7           0.0        0.0       0.1           431         1.2
C. udp.mt Mm                               2.1         4.0        6.1           0.0        0.0       0.1          46.0         1.1
D. Other Eacrent Euuw                     11.0         4.7       15.7           0.1        0.0       0.2           30.0        2.7
...... ...W...... --.-- ........ --   ................... ....... W.............. - - ..............   ....................
Totl   m      t   OSTS                    20.5        11.7       32.2           0.2        0.1       0.3           36.2        5.6
Total   SLIE CoST                         66.3       509.7    S56.0             0.6        4.9       5.5           85.5      100.0
Pl  ical CotInu.en                      3.3       32.0        35.3           0.0       0.3        0.3          90.7         6.1
Prce Continlgeies                       2.3       14.8        17.1           0.0       0.1       0.2           66.6         3.0
...... . ........................................................................................................................................... ..............
Total lwaOJ COSm                          71.9       556.5      262.4           0.7        5.4       6.0           68.6      109.1
............ ................ . 



- 23 -
4.2      Basis of Cost BUtimttes.  Project Co0ta were estimated as follows:
(a)  MM Cost.  All project costs are based on February 1993 prices and
conversions from the local currency are at the official exchange rate
of 104 leks per US dollar. Technical assistance (TA) costs are
derived from recent fees quoted for comparative spocialized services
in Bank-financed projects in Bastern Europe and are estimated per
man-month at US$20,000 for specialist services, and US$8,000 for
overseas fellowships. The man-month costs of TA include fees,
relocation/recruitment costs, housing and subsistenc, and overheads.
Egquipment unit costs are based on recent quotations from suppliers of
equipment and software; unit costs for refurbishing buildings
(U$ll0-$S150 per square meter) were provided by the Albanian
Institute of Building Technology and gathereod from consultations with
private building contractors; and staff unit costs are based on
current public service salary scales.
(b) Continaency AlIgnaMe. Project costs include a contingency for
unforeseen physical variations/additioas (US$0.3 million) equal to
five percent of the base cost of technical assistance and staff
salaries, and 10 percent for all other project item. Annual rates
of foreign price increases have been estimated at 3.1 percent
annually during project implementation except for the initial Fund
endowment (US$2.1 million) which is a lump sum and intended to cover
only preestablished costs of sub-projects. Base costs and
contingencies have been estimated only in US dollars because of the.
large differential between the estimated annual foreign and local
inflation rates.
Cc) Toreion Bxchanao Component. The foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows: (a) building refurbishment - 30 percent;
(Ib) office furniture, equipment, teaching materials and software - 95
percent; (c) technical assistance, fellowships and studies - 100
percent; (d) recurrent costs for equipment operation and maintenance
- so percent; (e) local consultants and staff salaries - 0 percent;
and (f) building maintenance costs - 15 percent. The reoulting
foreign exchange component including contingencies is estimated at
US$S.3 million, or about 09 percent of total project cost.
(d) Customs Muties and Taxes. Project costs do not include any estimates
for customs duties and taxes. The Government has recently made a
decision not to impose duties and taxe on goods and services
procured under the Project. Supporting documents to this effect were
be brought to negotiations by Government representatives.
(e) Zu3a =    Jgg RCcs. Only incremental recurrent cost are
included in the estimate of total project expenditures. These
recurrent costs would arise mainly from theo (a) annual operation and
maintenance of equipment; 0b) building maintenance - of the Regional
labor offices; and Cc) salaries of PCU and und management staff
involved in the Project. The expansion in staff of the 3MLSP and



- 24 -
IL.s has already been authorixed and will be comleted before project
implementation; no furtber increase in staffig is envisaged unde
the Project.
S. 
4.3      The propoed IDA Credit of SDI 3.9 million (US$5.4 million
equivalent) will finance 90 percent of total project cost or 100 Percent of
the foreign exchange componnt and 13 percent of local costs. Government will
contribute WS$0.3 million or five percent of total project cost. The balance
(US$0.3 million) will be financed by beneficiaries - employers, training
providers and local counnities - as a part of their own contribution, mainly
in the form of donated facilities and equipment timde TIUV-sponsored projects.
The project financing plan is shown in Table 4.3 below.
able 4.3:  H3AFZllLAN BY  XpUND!TURN CASEKKlRY
(US$ Thousand)
IDA                     011Total                     am
............ . ....................... ........ ..........  ant. oSwtIS
I     inVAt   S   Amu    I _mt   I    Ei X. tOM) & Tax.
A. civil MOb              g.o  o.g   0.1 loo.o   o.o  0.0   0.1  1I.    o.o   0.1   0.0
S. I*upwm ad              1.0  100.0   0.0  0.0   0.0  0.0   1.0  1.    1.0 e      0.1   0.0
C. TA " TMrAiln           3.4  10.    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0   2.4  40.1   2.    0.0   0.0
S. Tr**".ia.l1i.Fud      a..  #.0    0.0  0.0  0o   15.0   2.1  NJs   1.5   0.    0.0
1. asurff  csau           0.2  4"A    0.2  5A.   0.0  0.0  0G   4.1   0.1    05    0.0
..........................7 ...............................................................
To-t 1  hwmt               SA    . *0.    5 .1  0S    S          6.0  100.0   S.A   0.7   0.0
=.......................................................................................................
C.   _ge Iea          MhLZ3_ lementatgf
4.4      Pinal authority and control of the proposed Project will be with the
Minister of Labor, Dhuigration, Socia Protection and HB-Political Persecuted
People (MOLIV). The day-to-day operations for specific project components
will be implemetd  by MOLIP line agencies, whose project-related activities
will be cordinated by a Project Coordination Uhit (PCU) in MOLSP, under the
general directicn of the Minister of Labor. The PCU will facilitate the flow
of resources to MxL=P agencies to enable successful implementation of their
tasks, and channel any mplementation problems/isues requiring the attention



- 2S -
of 1IOLSP management and/or IDA, for resolution. The implementation
responsibilities are as follows:
(a) Combonent #1. National Labox Pelivy
The Office of the Minister of Labor will have overall responsibility
for implementing this component. The Statistics Office of the
Employment Services Directorate will implement the Labor Market
Information sub-component.
(b)  Comnonent #2. Local Institutional Develooment
The Employment Services Directorate of MOLSP will be responsible for
implementing this component.
(c) Comoonent #3. Trainina. Enternrise and Emnlovment Fund
The autonomous agency (the Pund) described in paragraph 3.21 above
will be responsible for implementing this component with assistance
from labor offices as described in paragraph 3.22.
4.5      Prolect Manaaement and goordination.  The PCU will have three key
staff, including the Project Manager. The PCU will be responsible for project
coordination, disbursements, procurement of goods and services, and records
maagement. Since Albania lacks personnel with these skills, the Project will
provide about 12 staff-months of specialist assistance to the PCU to assist
and provide on-the-job training to PCU staff in project management and
procurement of goods and services. The TeXrs of Reference for project
anagement aassistanoe have been prepared. Training of the Project Manager in
project implementation, including procurement and financial management, has
already been initiated. During negotiations, goverument and XDA agreed on a
detailed schedule of project implementation for year one and an overall
ibplemstation  chedule. These schedules will be used as tools to monitor
performance and allocate project resources. The PCU will prepare a format for
periodic reporting related to the implementation schedule, summarizing current
implementation status, highlighting problems, issues and actions recommended,
and setting out performance targets for the next period. A PCU Manager and
othr PC staff have been appointed.
4.6      MAnitorina and valuation.  With few exceptions, the activities to be
introduced under the Project and the methods and approaches to be applied will
be totally new to Albania. For this reason, it will be critical to establish
early in the Project a system by which project activities can be monitored and
their outcomes measured. Three types of indicators will be used to monitor
and evaluate the Project: (a) innut indicators to measure whether project
inputs such as technical assistance, equipment, civil works, and staff
training are delivared on time, and are of appropriate quantity and quality;
(b) gM=  i cators to measure whether and to what extent services or
products to be delivered such as labor market statistics, registration and
payment of the unemployed, training and employment programs financed through



- 26 -
the Fund, disbursement of Fund resources, or employment services in LLO are
actually delivered; and (c) outcome indicator, to measure the effectiveness of
the services and products delivered and the extent to which project objectives
are actually met. Outcome indicators could include, as feasible within the
resources of the Ministry and the Project, the average time to process benefit
payment, quality and timeliness of labor market statistics, average search
time for job seekers receiving employment services compared with those not
receiving services, the market sbare of vacancies filled through employment
services, placement rates for beneficiaries of training programs, and survival
rates of small businesses assisted under the Fund compared with those not
involved in such programs.
4.7     A list of recommended indicators for project monitoring and
evaluation, a description of how the necessary information will be gathered,
and the frequency with which these indicators will be reported were agreed and
finaJized at negotiations, and are given in Annex 3. Assurances ware obtain
that by March 31 and September 30 of each Prolect vear, the PCU will submit to
IDA a consolidated report of the status of project implementation based on the
above indicators. A&auxnces were obtained that by June 30. 1995, the PCU
will undertake jointly with nDA a mid-term review of the Project to determine,
again on the basis of the above indicators as well as other developments in
the country, whether: (a) the Project's original objectives remain valid; (b)
Project implementation is advancing sufficiently to justify its continued
implementation; and (c) any significant restructuring of the Project would be
necessary to improve its effectiveness.
4.8     IDA SuDervision. Because this is the first IDA operation for the
sector in Albania, and as it involves the creation of a new institution (the
Fund), the Project will require intensive supervision, especially during the
first year of implementation. About 20 staff weeks of Bank supervision, more
thAn the normal ten to twelve staff-weeks per year of supervision resources,
will be required during the first year of implementation. Wherever possible,
staff will cover multiple supervision tasks in the same missions for other
social sector projects considered for Bank/IDA financing, including the
Technical Assistance Project for Social Safety Net Development.
4.9      usuaai.nbilitv.  Institutional development activities of the Project
(including institutional support for the MOLSP and its labor offices) aim
expressly to develop cost-effective organizational structures and operational
procedures appropriate to their new and much enlarged workload, and thus
contain long-run operating costs. The Project provides an initial endowment
of US$2.1 million for TIEF sub-projects, which will need to be replenished -
assuming the initial test phase proves successful - through external sources,
at least for the foreseeable future. Bventually, such a Fund could be
maintained through modest payroll levies, or general revenues.



- 27 -
D.   ror
4.10       The table below suunarizes the project elements and their entimted
costs and proposed methods of procurement.
Tabl1e L4: Ima                  2amcm L
(US$ Million)
Procurement m
... .... .................... ....... ..............  ....... ............ ............ ............ .
roject lements                      ic    O  I    ND       TOTAL COST
Equipmt (Vehicles.  urniture             0.6    0.4W      0.2       1.2
and materials)                       (0.6)  (0.4)    (0.0)    (1.0)
Civil Worts                                               0.1       0.1
(0.0)    (0.0)
Technical Insist.en   f1llowships
and Training                                   4.21/    0.1       4.3
(4.2)    (0.0)    (4.2)
Incremental Recurrent Coats                     0.2g/    0.2        0.4
(0.2)    (0.0)    (0.21
Totl Fnancing Reuiresents                0.6    4.8       0.4       6.0
Toal Dank Financing I/              (0.6)   (4.8)    (0.0)     (5.4)
.        *S*U 0......     a.
VOS: Detailed numbers y not add up to totals due to rounding.
A/  Figre In p_anthess are the respective amunts finaed by the lA Credit.
.V  International shaping (aggrepte US$200,000)* pwgew estimted at lea than
USS100.000 per contract. Loal shopping (aggregate 1U850.000) packages estiated at
les than US$5000 per contract. IntellectWl property purchased directly/negotiated
with publisher or copyright ouner (aggrate US$100.000).
Services of cnsultants/institutions (advisrs. expect, fellowshipl/training) to be
egaged In accordance with SD Guidelines for  ae of Consultants.
It  IDA will inan   100 pren of foreign exchange oests nd 13 prent of local costa
(totalUing US0.2 mdllion). inluding equipme  opeation and maintenace, etc..
materials and supplies for the POu and cenutral  d riol labor office", which
will be pocured in accordance with Bank guideline. Government will finance 7
percent of local cot  (US$0.2 million), Including item  such as tff salaries.
travel/per diem, equpmet and building mainance. supplies. tazea. duties and
local ebor. In light of the modest sum involved, the IDA hbs not inwisted that its
financing for incremental recurrent cota be on the normal delining basis.
S/  Under mF. USS100,000 allocated for procurement of equpment will be used in
accordane with note W above, and US$50,000 for service will be used in
accordane with S/ above.
4.11        Procurement under this Project will be the respmosibility of the PCU.
PCU staff would be trained in IDA procurement procedures both by IDA staff, to
the extent possible, and through participation in procurement seminars
organized by the World Bank and the International Labor organization in Turin,
Italy, from time to time. In addition, the Credit will financ a Project
Advisor, with experience in international procurement, to assist the PCU staff
in procurement as well as to provide on-the-job training to them.  Procurement



- 28 -
will be undertaken in the following manner, using IDA/Bank standard Bidding
documents:
(a)    n        Equipment to be procured under the Project will consist
of vehicles, office equipment (including computer, hardware/software,
photocopy machines, fax machines), furniture, consumables, training
materials and related supplies. To the extent possible, these items
will be grouped into major packages of goods, the contents of which
could be typically supplied by one supplier. Equipment contracts,
which are estimated to cost US$100,000 or more equivalent per
contract, will be procured following international competitive
bidding (ICR) procedure in accordance with the *Guidelines for
Procurement under IBiD Loans and IDA Credit", May 1992. Vehicles and
office equipment and materials will be grouped into two major ICQ
packages. Albanian manufacturers competing for bids under ICB will
be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower, over the CIF price of competing
imports, subject to the domestically manufactured goods having at
least 20 percent of domestic value added. Bquipment procurement
though ICE will account for SO percent of the total value of
equipment requirements. The remaining 50 percent of the equipment
items will be suitable for procurement methods other than ICE.
(b) International  honnina based on comparison of three quotations
obtained from three eligible countries will be used for approximately
ten packages of equipment whose estimated value would be less than
US$100,000 per contract, having an aggregate value of US$200,000.
Contracts for intellectual property such as books, technical
journals, training materials, computer software, including annual
upgrading and licensing arrangements, estimated to cost about
US$100,000 aggregate, may be awarded following direct contracting or
negotiations with property/copyright owners.
(c) Loeal Shoncing. Local sundry items not exceeding US$5000 per
contract up to an aggregate amount of US$50,000 equivalent, could be
purchased on the basis of prudent local shopping by comparing prices
obtained from three independent suppliers, in accordance with local
shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(d) Civl  Works. The refurbishing/remodelling of the nine regional labor
offices will consist of small value, dispersed contracts estimated to
cost between UE$5,000 and US$15,000 equivalent totalling US$50,000.
Renovation of buildings for two incubators will also consist of small
contracts totalling US$50,000. These contracts will be locally
financed according to local procurement procedures, and will be
awarded based on the comparison of quotations obtained from at least
three local construction companies. These contracts are not expected
to attract foreign bidders.



- 29 -
(e) Technical Asgistance (TA) and Trainina. Technical assistance would
consist of specialized services involving consulting firms and
individual experts for 84 staff-months grouped into five TA packages
at a total cost of US$1.95 million. Another $1.82 million would be
allocated for TA and training through TSEF resources. In addition,
US$475,000 equivalent would be allocated for training and fellowships
which would be procured both from consulting firms and labor
organizations abroad. Altogether, technical assistance and training
totalling approximately US$4.2 million, would be financed by IDA.
The above-mentioned TA/training and fellowships would be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August
1981). Local training would consist of training of local staff, both
at headquarters and local labor offices.
(f) Incremental Reeurrent Costs. IDA will finance 100 percent of foreign
exchange costs and 13 percent of local costs (totalling US$0.2
million), including equipment operation and maintenance, etc., and
materials and supplies for the PCU and central and regional labor
offices. These items would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines.  Government would finance 87 percent of local costs
(US$0.2 million). Facilities maintenance and staff salaries would be
procured in accordance with local procedures acceptable to IDA.
(g) Cntract- Rev.  The knowledge in Albania of IDA procurement
procedures is limited. PCU staff will be trained in these procedures
(para. 4.11). Meanwhile, in order to ensure compliance with IDA's
Procurement Guidelines, procurement documentation (i.e.,
advertisement, bidding documents, evaluation reports, contract
awards, etc.) for all contracts to be awarded through ICB will be
subject to prior review by IDA. Furthermore, in order to ensure that
the PCU staff understand the procurement procedures, the first two
international shopping procurement packages will be subject to IDA's
prior review. Similarly, procurement documentation for consultant
assignments, training and fellowships (Terms of Reference, letter of
invitation, evaluation report, draft contract and draft negotiated
contract) will be subject to IDA's prior review, except for contracts
below US$30,000 for which only TORs will be subject to prior review.
A detailed list of procurement packages under the Project, including
an implementation schedule, are included as Annex F.
(h) Procurement Information to be Provided by the Borrower. The PCU will
promptly inform IDA of contract awards and procurement issues and
will include the following procurement information in periodic
progress reports:
(i)   revised timing of procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract award and completion time
for individual contracts; and
(ii)   status of aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement.



- 30 -
4. 12    Disent. The Project will be one of two now DA operation  in
the human reources sector in Albania. Therefore, no disbursemet profile
exists. The project design has been kept simple and bes been planned " a
four-year opeation to form a basis for subsetUent Bank involvemet in human
resources operatios in Albania.  Ths, the Credit proceeds are expected to be
fully disbursed oer a four-year period. The estimated disbursement schedule
by ameaster is shao   in TablZ.5 below.
Tale 4,fi:PRO3=T   DISR8ME S DX SNM 8
(tUS$ Thousand)
IDA    GM  oGr   TONl
................ ....................
MMt AMt   M*AUnt
11127.   51.5  16.1  119%.?
2  112V.4  51.3   1.1  1194.7
3  676.3  34.2  3211  746.6
4  676.3  34.2  32.1  74.4
5  549.5  36.6   6.2  652.3
6  549.5   36.6   4.2  652.3
7  3516   2.4  48.3  4.4
8  351.    2.4   4.3  47.4
IOAL    541.6  3.9  32.4  601.9
............ -% .. ....  .........:............
23  D.taled auwds mwy not ad up to toa tea to rand1rAg.
4.13     Disbursements will be made as follows:
(a)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment and installation
costs, furniture, books, training materials, proprietary software,
and supplies; 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost);
and 85 percent of local expenditures for other items procured
locally;
(b)  100 percent of expenditures for technical assistance, studies,
fellowships, training, and service contracts under the Fund; and
(c)  45 percent of expenditures for operating costs, materials, and
suppies.
4.14     All disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding
US$100,000 equivalent will be fully documented. For expenditures below that
level, disburs ments will be made on the basis of certified Statements of



- 31 -
axpenditure (sozs). The required supporting documentation will be retaied by
the PCV for at least one year after receipt by DA of the audit report for the
year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation will be made
available for review by the auditors and by IDA staff upon request.
4.15     Trainina Enter=rise and UmoloXment Fund (TB8F). Disbursements for
all items under the TERF will be made against certified SOBs, including
contracts for training services and lists of recipients in the case of
stipends or allowances with the amounts provided. supporting documents for -
SOs will bo retained by the implementing agency until one year after loan
closing and made available for review by IDA during supervision. Disbursements
for the other items will be made upon receipt by IDA of fully documented
applications.
4.16     Special Accounts. To facilitate timely project implementation, the
Government will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA, two Special Accounts (one for MOLSP and one for TURF),
denominated in US Dollars in the National Commercial Bank of Albania, to which
IDA will deposit in the MOLSP Special Account an initial amount of US$350,000
and in the TEEF Special Account $200,000, which is judged adequate to cover
about four months of eligible expenditure under the Project. The Special
Accounts will be replenished as appropriate when the undisbursed balance of
each Account falls below an amount equal to S0 percent or less of the amount
of the Special Account. Documentation requirements for replenishment
applications will follow the same procedure as described in paragraph 4.14.
In addition, monthly bank statements of the Special Account which have been
reconciled by the Borrower will accompany all replenishment requests.
4.17     Proiezt Accoun=s Man  Audits.  Separate project accounts will be
maintained by the PCU for the Project. Project accounts, including the
Special Account, will be audited in accordance with the Guidelines for
Financial Reporting an Auditing of Projects F4nanoed by the World Bank (March
1982). During negotiations, asmurances were obtained from the Government that
IDA will be provided, within six months of the end of each Government fiscal
year, with an audit report of such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably
request, including a separate opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to
LDk, on disbursements against certified 80SB. The separate opinion should
mention whether the SOBs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
upon to support the related withdrawal applications.
F. Status of Prelaration
4.18     The Project is already in a state of readiness which will permit
timely implementation. A Project Manager and other key PCU staff have been
selected. The Government requested and received from IDA an advance on the
proposed credit through the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in the amount
of US$650,000. The PPF will be used primarily to: (a) set up the PCU; (b)
start activities in the Unemployment Registration and Benefit subcomponent;
(c) establish the Training, Employment and Enterprise Fund and carry out a few
small pilot activities under the Fund; (d) develop a detailed project



- 32 -
implemntation schedule; and (e) prepare bidding documents and consultant
term-of-reference for project activities to be implemented in the first year
of the Project. The Executive Director of the Fund has been appointed. The
Govenment's decision establishag the Fund has been agreed in principle by
the Governmt and ZDA (Annex B). Draft Fund Regulations were discussed and
finalized at negotiations. Model contracts for training services and job
insertion projects to be carried out under the Fund have been prepared.
Terms-of-reference for technical assistance for the Unemployment Registration
and Benefit subcomponent and for Fund organization and management have been
drafted and will be finalized shortly. Shortlisting and selection of
consultants will be launched immediately thereafter.
4.19     Given the very limited implementing experience in Alban4a, the PCU
will take maximum advantage of experience gained in the early stages of
implementation of the Critical Imports Project (Credit 2404-AL) and the Rural
Poverty Alleviation Project (Credit 2461-AL). Standard bidding documents are
being drafted by the Ministry of Finance for the Critical Imports Project with
IDA assistance. These standard bid documents will be adapted/modified by the
PCU to suit the specific requirements of the Project. Experience gained in
the establishment and management of the Rural Development Fund will serve to
guide management of the Training, Bnterprise and Employment Pund.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. aw2fits
5.1      The Project'. main benefits will be to:  (a) lay the groundwork for
development of active labor markets in Albania by supporting key labor market
institutions including the Ministry of Labor and the network of labor offices;
(b) minimize the social costs of the transition and reduce the budgetary
burden of unemployment benefits by improving the efficiency of benefit
payment; (c) initiate delivery of services to help the unemployed return more
quickly to employment and increase their productivity; and (d) provide a
framework for channeling public resources and external aid to private sector
and community-based providers offering services for the unemployed. Given the
unknowns suronding the demand and supply for training and small business
services in Albania, it is impossible to forecast how many of the unemployed
may directly benefit from the TEBF in its test phase. A reasonable target
would be to aim to enroll some 10,000 participants in these activities and,
given the contractual placement rates, expect about 6000-7000 permanent jobs
to be filled thereby.



- 33 -
S. Risks
5.2     The main ridks are that: (a) labor offices may experience excess
capacity as the number of unemployment benefit recipients inevitably starts
to decline; and (b) T5EF resources may be misused, particularly under pressure
from vested interests or from unscrupulous service providers. Recognizing
that its requirements will change as the volume of benefit payments declines,
the MOLSP intends to adjust its staffing after the peak period, on the basis
of a target beneficiary to worker ratio for benefit payments (to be determined
as part of the Unemployment Registration and Dsnefit subcomponent). This
ratio will be adjusted to allow for the gradual intrzduction of proactive
services, initially for the "gateway" services required to support Fund
activities, and eventually for other services as well. On the second point,
Fund activities will be closely monitored during implementation, based on
specific cutoff criteria and safeguard limits of expenditure approval as
between its managers, its Board, and IDA contained in its draft Regulations.
The selection process for the Executive Director of the Fund, which is already
underway, will be given the critical attention it requires. Finally, Fund
operations will be closely examined at the mid-term review.
VI. haIsnLM   am=  aBm AND EKQ=N
6.1      During negotiations, asgurAncef were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) Fund projects valued at over 10 million leks (approximately
US$100,000) will be subject to prior IDA approval. All sub-projects
below this amount will be subject to SDA approval, until TUEF's
review mechanisms are satisfactory to IDA (para 3.21).
(b) by June 30, 1995, it will undertake jointly with IDA a mid-term
review of the project (para. 4.7);
(c) by Mareh 31 and September 30 of each project year, it will submit to
IDA a consolidated report of the status of project implementation
(para. 4.7); and
(d) it will submit to IDA an annual audit report, of reasonable scope and
detail, within six months after the end of the Government's fiscal
year (para. 4.17).
6.2      As a condition of disbursement for sub-projects under the Fund, TEBF
shall adopt Fund Regulations acceptable to IDA (para 3.2s).
6.3      Subject to the above assurances and condition, the proposed operation
is suitable for an IDA Credit of 8DR 3.9 million (US$5.4 million equivalent)
to the Government of Albania on standard IDA ters, with 40 years maturity.



- 35 -
Lk3OR MARKET DEVELOPMENT PtO.JET?
Crit.gia ad ReilbusaXble Categoriees Co Activities to be Financed bv the
Trainina, 8nterorie and umoloXment Fund (IMBF)
OU9BAA DRSCDZIW OF  TIM 
1. The TEEF will be used to: (a) purchase training services, and (b) support
development of micro-enterprise development. The TEEF would be established as
an autonomous agency created by decision of the Council of Ministers. Its
management structure would include a Board of Directors whose membership would
be tripartite with the Minister of Labor as its chair. The Board would employ
an executive Director to manage the TeF. The Director would in turn hire an
Assistance Director, Financial Officer, Small Enterprise Specialist and
necessary support staff. The TEBF would be independent, but closely linked to
the Ministry of Labor and its labor offices. The TSEU may agree in cases
where the level of activity justifies it to reimburse the Ministry of the
services of its staff members. Local labor offices would expected to act as a
ugateways for TB? activities and refer qualified unemployed persons to
service providers. The Project will provide international and local
consultative assistance to assist with the development and administration of
the TENF. TBBP funds could only be used to assist the registered unemployed
(including those receiving and not receiving unemployment benefits).
DECRXPImN. CRI?331  AmE TRZEVOLOvITI  TO as RUIIUBRUD 101THE TME
2. Desc=ion of the fraining Comonent. TEEF resources will be used to
purchase training services from any provider, public or private, including
enterprises, that offers training meeting the procurement criteria of the
TEF. The TUB? is intended to encourage the growth of private training
capacity along side tMAt of the public sector and thereby promote competition
and the efficient use of training resources for improving productivity,
promoting labor mobility, and facilitating the preparation of new skills for
the market economy of Albania. The training services to be financed by the
TB?F fall into two headings: (a) institutional training and (b) job insertion
training.
3. E)xobdure for initiatina ProDosals for Trainina Service.. Proposals may
be initiated by local labor offices of the Ministry, which will locally market
and supervise TBBP contracts, In some cases, proposals may come directly to
the TSBF from training institution or employers.  The proposals would be
reviewed by local and regional labor office staff, and TUB? staff, for their
consistency with Fund Regulations and selection criteria and further proposal
development could be undertaken if necessary.  The Executive Committee would



- 36 -
make all funding decisions on projects coating no more that ne million lek9
(US$10,000) with unit trainee costs of up to US$200. Propoeals above this
would have to be taken to the Eoard.
4. InstJitutiAol TZainina. The following criteria will guide aelection and
financing of institutional training program which will be proposed and
delivered by private and/or public training agencies:
a. Proposal Content and Evaluation Criteria:
-   Content: the proposal must contain a training plan (syllabus) and
evidence of
demand for the skills to be taught
-   Placement: the proposal must agree to place a minimum percentage of
trainees (40-60* depending on region and skills taught).
-   Duration: courses must be no longer than 12 montha.
-   Training Strategy: must allow some flexibility in entry/exit of
trainees.
-   Support Services: there must be evidence that the proposer has
qualified management, training staff, facilities/equipment, financial
control, and ability to evaluate and follow-up trainee placement.
-   Unit Costs: must be clearly defined.
b. Reimbursable Costs:
-   training and administrative personnel
-   consumable materials used in instruction
-   rent and utilities
-   trainee transportation allowances
-   non-durable goods used in training
-   depreciation on capital equipment (limited to 20a per year).
-   trainee stipends (to be determined by the Board).
C. Administration:
-   The Executive committee or Board will approve contracts.
- The LLO will screen and select trainees.
- The LLO will provide on-site supervision of training services.
-   Training contractors will be reimbursed on a monthly basis for number
of trainees on site during that month.
5. Job Insertion Trainina. The following criteria will guide selection and
financing of job insertion training programs proposed and operated by public
and/or private employers:
a. Proposal Content and Evaluation Criteria:
-   Content: there must be a training plan (skills to be taught)
-   Now Jobs: there must be evidence that the employment/training
involves new jobs
-   Placement: The proposal must agree to hire a minimum perenatage of
trainees at the end of the training period (50-70% depending on
region and skills taught).



-,37 -
-   Durationt courses mNst be no longer than 6 months.
-   Training Strategy: must allow some flexibility in entry/exit of
trainees.
-   Support Services: there must be evidence that the proposer has
qualified management, training staff, facilties/equipment, financial
control.
-   Unit Costs: must be clearly defined.
b.  Reimbursable Costs:
-   training and administrative personnel
-   consumable materials used in instruction (but not in production)
-   trainee transportation allowances
-   non-durable goods used in training
-   trainee stipends (level to be determined by the Board).
c.  Administration:
-   the Bxecutive committee or Board will approve contracts.
- the LLO will screen trainees but the eWployer selects
-    the LLO will provide on-site supervision of services.
-   employers will be reimbursed on a montbly basis for number of
employee trainees on site during that month
mmCITo _ hUb CRITM RIA   SN&  =INS ACTI_ TIR
6. D2scriDtion, of the Small Business Comnonent. TBe  resources will be used
to develop programs to encourage the unemployed to enter self-employment. The
fund will provide support to develop: (a) small enterprise clubs in
communities which can be used as a resource by labor office clients who are
interested in starting small businesses, and (b) up to two small business
incubators designed to provide facilities, technical "asistance, and working
capital to the unemployed who are starting smll businesses. This part of
TIEB operations is somewhat different from the training component, as it will
not be providing resources on a unit cost bases for individuals who are
unemployed, but rather resources will be provided to club and incubator
management entities who will be responsible for developing and delivering
services to the unemployed referred to them by local labor offices.
7. Proced=r for Initiatina Proosals for SEmal Business Devlonment
fli=dfi.  Proposals may be initiated by local entrepreneurs and non-
government agencies, with the support and encouragement of local labor offices
of the Ministry, which will locally market and supervise activities
(particularly the clubs). Proposals, particularly for the incubators, may come
directly to the TRIP from non-government agencies. The proposals would be



- 38 -
reviewed by local ad regional labor office staff, and TRIF staff, for their
consistency with Fund Regulations and selection criteria and further proposal
development could be undertaken if necessary.
S. Although similar institutions could apply to implement both the Clubs and
incubators it is expected that applicants will in fact be very different.
Applicants who may wish to operate Clubs will be successful entrepreneurs who
reside in communities near local labor offices and who are willing to develop
some of their time to help others in the community who are less fortunate but
wish to start small enterprises. On the other hand, applicants for
dovelopment of incubators will have to have a moderate level of expertise and
resources to be accepted to develop the incubator concept. It is not unlikely
that the incubator could house a small business club, but not vice versa.The
Bxecutive Committee would make all funding decisions on all clubs, while the
Board will make the final decision and financing of the incubator(s). The
project will finance international and local consultative assistance to assist
with development and start-up of the clubs and incubators, as well as related
bardware and software.
9. 8mal  &Usins clu-. The Clubs are to be informal entities, operated by
a successful entrepreneur on a part-time basis (e.g., the entrepreneur may
allocate one-half day a week of his/her time and a meeting place), which
provides basic information on small business development and an opportunity
for potential and existing entrepreneur to meet and share information. All
local labor offices would be eligible to solicit proposals from local
entrepreneurs to develop such clubs which they would forward to the executive
committee. The following criteria will guide selection and financing of
clubs:
a. Proposal Content and Ivaluation Criteria:
-    Proposer: must be a successful private entrepreneur residing in the
comunauity
-    Plan: must be a plan of how the cluo will operate
-   Duration: plan must be for one year with extensions possible with the
mutual agreement of the TEEF and entrepreneur.
-    Support Services: there must be evidence that the proposer has
facilities available for meetings and to keep software.
-   Costs; must be clearly defined.
b.  Reimbursable Costs:
-   Club manager (maximum four days per month)
-    consumable materials used in club operations
-    transportation allowances for manager
-   non-durable goods used in club operations



- 39 -
C.  Alministration:
-   The Ixecutive committee will approve contracts.
-   The LLO will screen and direct the unemployed to the club
-   The LL0 will provide on-site oupervision of the club contract
-   Club managers will be reimbursed for costs on a moathly basis
10.      Incubatog. These facilities would support enterprise development in
high unemployment areas by providing support to micro-enterprises during their
critical first five years of operation. The incubators would be developed to
provide assistance that micro-enterprises need in order to grow and employ
others. The incubators would be medium to large-scale operations (minimum
size of 3000 square meters of net leasable space to serve approximately 30
micro-enterprises) planned and developed according to competitive project
proposals from local non-government agencies.
1.        The Uxecutive Committee would solicit direct proposals. Micro-
enterprise incubators are facilities which provide access in one physical
structure to nearly all the major resources needed to nurture new or early-
stage enterprises during the early ysars of their business development.
Specifically, these include such resources as: (a) premises and some general
equipment for their activities; (b) a variety of business assistance,
information and support services; (c) access to management consulting,
technology transfer and working capital. The key to the operation of a
successful business incubation facility is incubator management which runs the
facility as itself an enterprise and provides the above ingredients to tenant
firms in just the amounts needed, when they are needed, primarily on the basis
of user fees that are not subsidized. The following criteria will guide
selection and financing of incubators which will be done in tw; phases: (.
2n-edevelooment and (b) develovment
a.  Minimum Criteria:
-   The proposer must be a non-government organization based in the
locality of its proposed business advisory activities.
-   The proposer must have identified people who would be able to
undertake incubator planning and development.
-   The proposer must plan to provide services to individuals subject to
layoff and/or currently unemployed adults.
b.  Proposal Process: A two-phase project proposal process will be used
including: (a) proposals for conducting the pre-development phase,
including market analysis, feasibility studies and incubator
planning; and (b) a facility preparation proposal which covers
building renovation, equipping, staff and management training, and
the start-up of incubator operation. Winners of the second phase
would be eligible to receive the following assistance: (a)
consultative assistance, staff training and software development
start-up, (b) resources for civil works and equipment including a
vehicle, (c) financing for a working capital fund for residents of



- 40 -
the incubtor. All procuremt of goods and services would be don, by
the Project Coordnting Unit following World Bank Guidelires.
c.  Propoaal Content and lvaluation Criteria:
fte-DevelawAnt proposals can be brief but wut provide the
following infoluation:
- Staffing plan: including relevant eaperience and training.
- Goals and objectives: of their proposed incubator development
ahowing how they relate to entrepreneurial economic development
strategies in their area and/or how they would serve both private and
public purpses.
- Assessment: methodologies that will be used to assess
entrepreneurship and small enterprise development potentials,-the
local market for co=mercial and industrial real estate;potential
sites and arrangements needed to acquire access; and entrepreneurs'
needs and ability to pay for business services.
- Capabilities: explanation of the organizations ability to conduct:
Engineering costs analysis and preliminary architectural work;
Business plans for business incubation facilities; Financial analysis
and facility pro-forsma
- Experience: previous relevant experience, references and other
salient documentation of proposer.' capability.
*2-M1929"L Staae Sub-project proposals must be more detailed and
*provide the following information:
- Staffing plan: including relevant facility operating or management
experience or training, criteria for incubator facility manager
recruitment and selection, and an approach to incubator manager
training.
- Financial plan: including commitments by sponsors to match MOLSP
commitments at least in part, preliminary analysis of working capital
problems likely to be encountered during the first few years of
facility operation and proposed solutions;
- Cost effectiveness: of proposals with respect to the likely
financial and operating budget constraints faced by start-up
entrepreneurs and their early-stage enterprises;
- Mobilization of Resources: including an identification of facility
development partners, what they have at stake in the development, how
their various risks and potential returns are to be apportioned, how
their various responsibilities are to be exercised;
- Business plan: indicating types of services to be provided,
facility/programmatic operations and management plan, proposed



- 41 -
metbods to conduct architectural plans for new building or building
renovaetins within severe cost constraints, arrangements for
acquiring and maintaining accesses to premises;
- Types of entrepreneurs to be supported: based on an analysis of
local entrepreneurial/market potentials and capital needs, and the
possible uses of 8DF funds by these entrepreneurs.
d    Reimbursable Costs:
-   administrative personnel (maximum 2 - % financing 0% in three years)
-   consmable materials used in management of incubator operations (but
not in production). Maximum 100 % to go to 0 % in three years.
-   civil works (maximum US$50,000)
-   general equipment including a vehicle (Maximum US$50,000)
-   start up capital for incubator revolving fund (Maximum US$25,000).
-   misc. operating expenses (maximum 50t to go to Ot within three
years).
e.  Administration:
-   the Board will approve contracts.
-   the TEEF Small Enterprise Staff will provide contract supervision.



- 43 -
REPUBIC OF ALBA
corel of Kisters
DECREE
NO. 220 date 10\5\1993
ON
mw      o 0'AM awm      .in m     a_, Daus 
By proposal ot the Ministry ot Labour,, Soial Protection,
EMigration and Em-Politically Perseuted People, the Council of
Ministers
DUsCZS OED U
1. To approve the creation of the Mployment, Enterprise and
Training Fund, domicile in Tirana, which shall work for the
promotion of weployment, enterprise and training and retraining
activities.
2. To approve the status of this Fund.
2bis decree Will enter in force imediately.
TM 3 aaua  or TM COUNCIL 0o  MNU
AZIAUDE 13



AMl B:
_ 44 -
Prot. No. 1280/1         to the Preident's Office
Date 17.05.1993          to the Peoples Assembly
to the Constitution Court
to th Genoral Prosecutor's office
to the Ministxy of Labour,, Eigrrtion,
Social Protection and Ex-Politically
Persecuted People
to the Ministry of Finance and Econoty
to the state Control service
to the Ministry of Industry, Mineral
Resources and Enry
to the Ministry of Justice
GDNIAL SUCRETARYr
VUULW AiDUE



ANE B
- 45 -
of TE                 RR, SR83 AD UAMRZN  FUN
INODUCTION
The Employmente Enterprise and Training Fund, hereinafter referrad
to as the Fund, is hereby established an a juridical person with
administrative, technical and financial autonomy, vith the
objective to reduce the number of the unemployed through:
- the promotion and support of enterprise
- the financing of the training projects
- the financing of the job insertion projects
G3NERAL
The Fund shall perform its activities pursuant to the Legislation
of the Republic of Albania an to this statute.
Th domicile of the Fun is the city of Tirana.
Its activity vill be extend over the entire teritory ot the
Republic ot Albknia and it may open office  in other citie  vithin
Albaia " nec"sary.
OnhiM 2
Masds Aetivities



ANNEX 3
_ 46 -
Tbe Fnd vill proote mid finance diffornt projots to Suport th-
developmnt of enterprise through the establishmnt of small.
business incubators and small business clubs.
For financing of the projects for the promotion and the development
of enterprise, conditions related to the following points shall be
net:
- m    nt stOuctur of the incubator;
- financal structure of thein     tor.
- prmises; and
- upport services offered.
For finaning of the projects for the development of enterprise
through the establishment of small business clubs, conditions
related to the following points shall be met:
3the mmbership criteria of the club;
management structure of the club;
-prmise; and
- club activities.
el.- 3.
The Fund will promote and finance different projects for job-
inertion contracting vith different juridical persons for this
purpose, excluding stte budgeted istitutions. The financing of
thes projects, condition related to te following points shall be
met:
_ te          of skills training
- the content of this trainin; and
placement MA  retention gurnesfor the unemployed people.
Th Fund will prmotand finance different projects for training.
Fhe projects will be subjeot to rpquirem ts on tbh  dwation of



ANNEX B
- 47 -
skills training to be provided by the enteprise and on placement
ad retention guarantee  and other technical requirements to be
foresee in the related contracts of the Fund.
The rund may finance other projcts than those desiibed in
Article  2,3, and 4 of this statute, by decision of it  Board,
provided that these projects will serve to achieve the objectives
of the Fund and are subject to the conditions stated in the
Reulations and in the Status.
The Fund will decide to finance different projects after analyzing
project proposals initiated by public andlor private juridical
PersonS.
The exeution of the projects finance  by the Fund is the
reponsibility of the private or public juridical person contracted
for that purpose.
The  Fund, however,  will  eercise  technical  and  financial
supervision 4o enure projects are implemnted as agreed.
In order to pform its activities, the Fud may deleate som  of
thes   to    to Regional Labour Offices of the  ,OLS, by mutual
agremt.
eDau zz



- 48 -                    ANNEX B
The Fund'  revenues and resources are:
- resources assigned by multilateral or bilateral aid
program;
- grants provided by the Government of Albania; and
- domestic and foreign donations.
The financial resources of the Fund are deposited in ient
bank accounts in leks and foreign currency and vill be distributed
to the different projects.
OUITM ZXZ
Fund's Organisational St
=rIcls lam
The governing bodies of the Fund are:
1. the Bard of trustees and
2. the Zecutiv  C     tt
The Board,    toe   referred to as the Board" sall be composed
as follows:
- The Ninistar of Labour( Chaiman)t
- The MAiister of Finance and Economy or his
rS etati(mMber) g
- !te Ministe of Industry or his representative (member):
-   o rtives of labour n              ated by the two largest
trad  unions, as t d        by the Kinistry of JuSti@



ANE B
- 49 -
according to the number of the uembersmuber); and
Two repesentative. of private entr urs nominated by
the two largest private entrepreneurs organizations, as
determined bY the Ministry of Justice accordinw to
the number of members(members).
Board members shall receive no remuneration for their services
except for direct costs of travel and per diem associated with
attendance at Fund meetings which will be provided by the Fund
itself.
The Board holds its ordinary meetings every three months on the
initiative and the direction of the Minister of Labour. or his
alternate and during their absence by the following itnister listed
in the preceding Article. The extraordiar  metings are hold as
often as necessary on the initative of the Chairman. *
Meetings will be held with . the attendance of at least five (S)
board members and decisions will be taken by majority of votes.
The Board may invite the representatives of other public and
private agencies to its meetings. Such representatives should have
voice but no vote.
Atcle 13L
The Board shall have the following duties:
a) approve the Regulatiom  of the Fund ad its structure;
b) approe the policies and general guidelines           the
Fund's activities;
c) approve project financing proposals for amounts exceeing
the corre   d value in leks of US$ 10,000i
c) approve the land's annual budget;
d) approve the annual finacial report;
4k) authrize certain perooa to negotiate on behalf of the
Fund;



AMU _
- 50 -
)--enter into agrwits vith tho  ot of  bnla amU
interational tinancial i.atittons as necessary to
achiev its purposes: and
a) nominate the ambers of the Zxeutive comittee.
The Excutive Committee shall be formed byt
- The General Director;
- The Financial Director;
-The Director for Training; and
- The Director for Small Buiness.
The Executive          shall have the following duties:
a) approve the proleat tinaning proposals up to c  ong
amount in 1le  of U$ 10 ,000. ( Fw this purpos oly,
meetigs vwil be held in the prenc of all Exective
ommittee member and decisions shll be taken by the
majority ot the votes. In case thee is no majority, the
decision shall be taken by the Geeral Directo.)
b) define the  tutur of the Fnd  d propose it to the
Board for aprvl
C) Prepare and propos to the Board the L1impmtinq
Regutios ot the Fund for approal.
The Genera Director  hall be the hilght        tive  torty ot
the Fund and shal be named and removed by the Minister Ot  Laour
and sall met the professional. requirements related to hs



AM B
- 5.1 -
The Ecutive Director shall have the following dutiest
- hold the Fund's legal representation;
- diret the opeations of the Fund and implement the Board's
decisions;
- manage the reo     of the Fund;
- prpose for the other membes  of the  xecutive
Committee to the Board;
selectand appoint the professional, tecnical and
administrative staff of the Fund based on their personal,
proessional and technical capabilities;
- sign the pertinent oracts   r professional and technical
services; and
- contract with the Board's authorisation external
auditors to control the financial activity of the Fund.
The othe duties of the  eneral Director shall be assigned by the
ulations of the Fund.
ilL.
The wock relations of the stft shall be          by the clause
of the signed Wotsioal and technical  onact,hic shall be
2"Ject to Abaninlaw.
Staff expense shal be finacd with the Funds re.
fTe salary ot the General Director will be equal to the salary of
a Deputy          of the Minitry of Labour, Socal Protection,,
Reigrtios an  e3-POlitiCally Persecuted Pe1op. The slaries ot
the othe   embwer ot the MPcuive comittee ad professional statt
aembers will be fied by the Boad and shall correspona to the
salaries of the ee             the state institutions.



AN= B
- 52 -
-~~ -.  OZh,U 
kAticl 19.
Intenal auditing shall be carried out by the Fund's auditors who
are responsible for monitoring the Fund's budgetr iplntaton
and financial operations.
The internal auditors shall be heded by a Chief Auditor dLrectly
appointed by Kinister, and he sall report directly to the Board.
The Internal Auditors of the Fund shall have the following duties:
- submit quarterly reports to the Board on the reults of
their investigations with respect to each Fund's financing
activity;
- report monthly to the Board on the implementation of the
administrative budget;
-submit suggestions to the Board on the opration  of the
accounting system so that it takes the actions it dee
convenient; and
- perform monitoring actions, without placing obstacles on the
deision-making process, restrLcting itself to mking
suggestions it dem  convenint in the quarterly reports.
The Fund shall be subject to external auditing by ie dt
interntiluai auditors. eports from the External Auditors sall be
reviewed by the Board for the croilega action.



-    -            ~~ANNE B
-53 -
cuama vz
Fueli amd Yeprayovislons
The Fund salil be exempt from any type of taxes,, fees in case this
is a provision intogoenntarens for financing the
acrivities of this Fund,
By the proposal of the Executive Committee, the Board can decide on
changes in this status,, except for Articles 2., 6,v 9, 1ls, 13/c,4,,
15/a, 20/a, 22, 23, which can be changed only by the decision of
the Council of 4inisters proposed by the Ministry of Labowr. The
proposals for changing the status have to be motivated.
They have to be approved by the Board by a two-thirds majority of
votes.
The Board may decide to dissolve the Fund anid submit this  decision
to the Counil of Ministers for their approval. For this purpose
only the exrodnrseetingi vill be held with the presence of
all the members of the Board and the decision shall be taken by a
three-fourths of the majority of the votes.
If the Fnd is to be dissolved, the Minister of Labur -shoul
conistite  a            to liquidate its, which  hall have the
following duties:
- transfOr to the pertinent gVernmenJtal bodies or
institutions, with the prorjts not yt completed to comly
vift all. pending responsibilities p
-ta tnser a2ll 2te financial res       and all other asseft
from th Fund to the Coesndg overNmetl boie  aem
-t st mit the roept o  Its activities to Fte   nt       
TAbour amd to the aenchie   d em cont



AThm*^
Labor Market Development Project
Table lO0. institutional Development
national Labor Pollcy: Organisational/Strategic Plamlag
Detailed Cost Table
Lek
Total Incluin Contingencies
Quantity           Unit coat          Baso Coats in VS$                       VS$
Unit    01   02 03-04 Total         1-04        Ol    02 03-04 Stal           01    02    03    04 Total
I. ZnVUSDMITm COSTS
A. Organisational framework
Teebaical Asslstance       staffmontha     2    0    0    2    2096.02          40.3   0.0   0.0  40.3        45.4   0.0   0.0   0.0  45.4
Fellowship                 Aonths          3    0    0    3         B3B.41     24.2   0.0   0.0  24.2         27.2   0.0   0.0   0.0  27.2
Sub-Total                                                                        C4.5   0.0   0.0  64.5        72.6   0.0   0.0   0.0  72.6
S. Action Plan
Technial AssLstance       ataffmontba     2    0    0    2    2096.02          40.3   0.0   0.0  40.3        45.4   0.0   0.0   0.0  4S.4
C. Staff T?aining
Technical AssLtance        staffeostha     2     0    0    2    2096.02         40.3   0.0   0.0  40.3        45.4   0.0   0.0   0.0  45.4
fellowship                 weitba          3    3    0    6         836.41     24.2  24.2   0.0  46.4         27.2  38.1   0.0   0.0  5S.3
Materials                  lumpsum           -    -         -           -        3.3   3.3   3.3  13.3         3.7   3.9   4.0   4.1  15.7         1
Sub-Total                                                                       67.8  27.S   3.3  102.0        76.3  31.9   4.0   4.1 116.3         U
D. infrastructure                                                                                                                                      U,
squipont                   lumps.         -    -    -    -              -      40.3  35.3   0.0  75.6         4S.4  40.9   0.0   0.0  66.3         1
Materials <l>              lumps.            -    -         -           -       12.6  12.6   0.0  2S.2        14.2  14.6   0.0   0.0  26.6
Sub-Total                                                                       52.9  47.9   0.0 100.8         19.6  S5.6   0.0   0.0 115.1
S. Vebhile                      mater           1     0    0    1    2672.42        25.7   0.0   0.0  25.7         26.9   0.0   0.0   0.0  28.9
Total DNVBSKN COSS                                                                    251.2  75.4   3.3 333.2    262.8  67.5   4.0   4.1  376.2
SS. I o   COSTS
...............
A. Bguippent 0OW                lump.U         -    -    -    -             -        3.0   3.0   3.0  12.1          3.4    3.5   3.6   3.7  14.3
S. Vbliele  1                   lumpu.         -    -    -    -             -        1.3   1.3   1.3   5.2          1.5   1.S   1.S   1.6   6.1
Total R3C33     COBSS                                                                   4.3   4.3   4.3  17.3         4.9   S.0   5.2   5.3  20.4
Total                                                                              25.S  79.7   7.6  35.S    267.6  92.5   9.1   9.4 396.7
d>s, NateUl for physical lrfrentsetu   at national offiea.
rit Costo Scaled by 1000.0 - VVlue  msled by 1000.0 6/24/1993  1644,



Albai
Labor Market Development Project
Table 102. Institutional Development
National Labor Policy: Labor Market Information
Detailed Cost Table
lek
Totals Including Contingencies
Quantity            Unit Cost           Base Costa in 58$                         5S$
nfl""w"ww"""""" fln.n"*"" fnfl..         ......... -b   f....na...       w ........n . .0 -....... n .. w
Unit     01    02 03-04 Total         1-04         01     02  03-04  Total          01      02    3-04   Total
I. INVESTHBNS COSTS
A. Occup/Industry Codes
Technical Assistance         staffmonets      2     0     0     2      2096.02      40.3    0.0    0.0   40.3        45.4      0.0     0.0    45.4
Materials                    lupsum         -     -     -     -            -        2.0    0.0    0.0    2.0         2.3      0.0     0.0     2.3
Sub-Total                                                                            42.3    0.0    0.0   42.3        47.6      0.0     0.0    47.6
S. MlS Systems Refinement
Technical Assistance         staffmonths      1     1     0     2      2096.02      20.2   20.2    0.0   40.3        22.7    23.4      0.0    46.1
Fellowships                  months           3     0     0     3       838.41      24.2    0.0    0.0   24.2        27.2      0.0     0.0    27.2
Materials                    luspsum         -     -     -     -            -       10.1   10.1    0.0   20.2        11.3    11.7      0.0    23.0
Sub-Total                                                                            54.4   30.2    0.0   84.6        61.3    35.1      0.0    96.3
C. Systems Dev.and Software
Technical Assistance         staffmonths      2     0     0     2     2096.02       40.3    0.0    0.0   40.3        45.4      0.0     0.0    45.1              a'
Materials                    luapsum         -     -     -     -            -       10.1   10.1    0.0   20.2        11.3    11.7      0.0    23.0
Sub-Total                                                                            50.4   10.1    0.0   60.5        56.7    11.7      0.0    68.4
D. MOL Training:Statistics
Fellowships                  months           0     6     0     6       838.41       0.0   48.4    0.0   48.4         0.0    56.1      0.0    56.1
Materials                    lupsum         -     -     -     -            -        5.0    5.0    0.0   10.1         5.7      5.8     0.0    11.5
Technical Assistance c41     staffmonths      2     0     0     2     2096.02       40.3    0.0    0.0   40.3        45.4      0.0     0.0    45.4
Sub-Total                                                                            45.3   53.4    0.0   98.8        51.0    62.0      0.0   113.0
Total D8rMBNT  COSTs                                                                       192.5   93.7    0.0  286.2       216.7   108.8      0.0   325.4
Total                                                                                   192.5   93.7    0.0  286.2       216.7   100.8      0.0   325.4
cl FOr software training.
tnit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 8/24/1993 16:44
IE



Albania
Labor Market Development Project
Table 103. Institutional Development
Project Coordination Unit
Detailed Cost Table
lek
Totals Including Contingencies
Quantity            Unit Cost          Base Costs in US$                       0V$
Unit    01   02 03-04 Total          1-04        01     02  03-04 Total         01     02     03      04 Total
I. $NUBSTMENT COSTS
A. Technical Assistance
Procedures                   staffmontbs     2     0     0    2      2096.02       40.3    0.0    0.0  40.3       45.4    0.0    0.0    0.0  45.4
Infrastructure               staffmonths     1     0    0      1     2096.02      20.2    0.0   0.0   20.2        22.7    0.0    0.0    0.0   22.7
Financial/Reporting          staffmonths     2     0     0     2     2096.02      40.3    0.0    0.0  40.3        45.4    0.0    0.0    0.0  45.4
Procurement                  staffmonths     2     1     1     5    2096.02        40.3   20.2   20.2  100.8      45.4  23.4   24.1   24.9  117.7
Sub-Total                                                                          141.1   20.2   20.2  201.5     IS.8   23.4   24.1   24.9  231.2
S. Fellowships
Financial Reporting         months           1           0    2       838.41        8.1    8.1   0.0   16.1        9.1    9.4    0.0    0.0   18.4
Procurement                  months          1     1     0    2       838.41        8.1    8.4    0.0  16.1        9.1    9.4    0.0    0.0  18.4
Sub-Total                                                                           16.1   16.1    0.0   32.2      18.1   18.7    0.0    0.0   36.9
C. Refurbishing                   lumpsum        -     _      _     _           _        5.0    0.0    0.0   5.0        5.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    5.7
D. Vehicle                        nmlber          1     0     0      1    2672.42       25.7    0.0    0.0  25.7       28.9    0.0    0.0    0.0  28.9
B. 8quipment and Furniture
Personal Computer cl>        number          3     0    0      3      314.40        9.1    0.0    0.0    9.1      10.2    0.0    0.0    0.0  10.2
Laser Printer                number          2     0    0      2      136.24        2.6    0.0    0.0   2.6        2.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.9        Ln
Printer stand                number          2     0    0    2         10.48        0.2    0.0    0.0    0.2       0.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2
Printer Sharer Switch        number          1     0     0     1       10.48        0.1    0.0    0.0   0.1        0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1
Uninterrupted PowerSupply   number           3     0     0     3       78.60        2.3    0.0    0.0   2.3        2.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.6
Software: Spreadsheet        number          3     0     0     3       47.16        1.4    0.0    0.0    1.4       1.S    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.5
Software: DBCM               number          3     0     0    3        62.88       1.8    0.0   0.0    1.8         2.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.0
Software: wordprocessing     number          3     0     0     3       44.54       1.3    0.0    0.0    1.3        1.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.4
Software:Norton Utilities    number          3     0     0    3        16.77       0.s    0.0    0.0   0.5         0.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.5
Desk c2)                     number          3     0    0      3       31.44       0.9    0.0    0.0    0.9        1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0
Office Chair                 number          6     0     0     6       15.72       0.9    0.0   0.0    0.9         1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0
File Cabinet, 4 Door         number          1     0     0     1       41.92       0.4    0.0    0.0    0.4        0.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.5
Desk Lamp                    number          3     0     0     3        3.14       0.1    0.0    0.0    0.1        0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.1
Surge Protector              number          3     0    0      3        2.10       0.1    0.0    0.0    0.1        0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1
Facsimile Machine            number          1     0    0      1      104.80       1.0    0.0    0.0    1.0        1.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.1
Photocopier                  number          1     0     0     1      366.80       3.5    0.0    0.0    3.5       4.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.0
Refrigerator                 number          1     0     0     1       15.72       0.2    0.0    0.0    0.2        0.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2
Telephone                    number          3     0     0    3         0.03       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.4    0.0    0.0
Heater                       number          2     0     0    2        10.48       0.2    0.0   0.0    0.2         0.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2
Bookshelf                    number          3     0     0    3        10.48       0.3    0.0    0.0   0.3         0.3    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.3           
Backup Generator             number          1     0    0      1      366.80       3.5    0.0    0.0   3.5        4.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   4.0
Sub-Total                                                                          30.3    0.0    0.0  30.3        34.1    0.0    0.0    0.0  34.1           o
Total INNESTMBUT COSTS                                                                   218.2   36.3  20.2  294.8    245.6  42.1  24.1   24.9  336.1
II. RECURRBNT COSTS
A. Salaries                       staffmonths    48    48    48   192       10.48       4.8    4.8   4.8   19.3         5.4    5.6   5.8    6.0  22.8
B. Vehicle 0&M                    lumpsum        -     -    -      -           -        1.3    1.3   1.3    5.2         1.5    1.5    1.5    1.6   6.1
C. Materials and supplies         lupsum         -    -      -     -           -        2.0    2.0    2.0    8.1        2.3    2.3    2.4    2.5    9.5



7mta1   R _  COS=                                                                   8.1   8.1   8.1  32.6       9.2   9.5   9.7  10.1  38.4
Total                                                                          226.4  44.4  28.3 327.4    254.8  51.6  33.9  34.9 37S.1
41  nlaudes souse, tecbulicl -mns.
<2, Assis8 two rooms.
lnIt Cost Scaled by 1000.0 - Values Scaled by 1000.0 8/24/1993  16:44
l



Labor 3agket DevelOPeat Project
Table 104. XuatitutIOsl Develpstul
Local Inatit. Dev- Registation/Payment of the UMe=rVleYd
Detailed Cost Table
lek
Totale inlodia  Ctj*gwie
Quantity          tt cout               M Costa  an S                            lSS
maauwu..m-_. _._. ........... *_ u.u.u..... r_-..munr..siu. _..-._-._......u ....M.u...u.m.u.........  . _
tAlt   0a   02 03-04 total        1-04        01      02   3-04  Total         01      02     03     04  Total
1. rW DIN   cOSTS
A. Oxcept of operatioms
Technical Assistace        stoffuoth      2    0    0    2    2096.02        40.3    0.0    0.0   40.3        45.4    0.0    0.0    0.0   45 4
S. Plansite Prepaation
Civil lBrko                 1            -    -    -    -            -       45.3    0.0    0.0   45.3        S1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   51.0,
C. PlUAAsplicatics Archit.
Tecbnical Asistance        staffmonth8    2    0    0    2    2096.02        40.3    0.0    0.0   40.3        45.4    0.0    0.0    0.0   45.4
D. PlanSSoftware DeVPilot
Technical assietanee      9tff oaoas    9    0    0    9    2096.02          181.4    0.0    0.0  101.4      204.2    0.0    0.0    0.0  204.2
Co=Mltancy                 statafaatbs    9    0    0    9         0.10       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Sub-Total                                                                    181.4    0.0    0.0  161.4       204.2    0.0    0.0    0.0  204.2
3. PlansUser Training
Tecndical Assistance       ataffeantsh    3    0    0    3    2096.02         50.5    0.0    0.0   60.S       68.1    0.0    0.0    0.0   66.1
Consultanay                statiauths    3    0    0    3          0.10       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Bob-Total                                                                     60.5    0.0    0.0   60.5        68.1    0.0    0.0    0.0   6;.1
P. Plans'olicy/frooed.Train.
Tbechical Assistance       stafuomths    3    0    0    3    2096.02        6d.5    0.0    0.0   60.5         60.1    0.0    0.0    0.0  6".1 I
0. PlastTest/Data Cnmversion
Tecmhlial Assistance       statffcths    4    0    0    4    2094.02          60.6    0.0    0.0   60.6       90.7    0.0    0.0    0.0   90.7
Coasultancy                stattconths    4    0    0    4         0.10       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
8ub-Total                                                                     60.6    0.0     0.0    0.6       90.7    0.0    0.0    0.0   90.7
B. Plas n & a
Technical Asistance        staffocths    2    0    0    2    2096.02         40.3    0.0    0.0   40.3        45.4    0.0    0.0    0.0   46.4
1. PeUowabips                  southe          2    1    0    3       636.41      16.1    6.1    0.0   24.2        16.1    9.4    0.0    0.0   27.5
J. Regional Office CoXputers
Personal Computer          naher          9    0    0    9       314.40      27.2    0.0    0.0   27.2        30.6    0.0    0.0    0.0   30.6
taser ftiter               nu ber         9    0    0    9         1.31       0.1    0.0    0.0    0.1         0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1
Ibiaterarpted PowerSupply  onuer          9    0    0    9        78.60       6.6    0.0    0.0    6.6         7.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    7.7
Backtu Generator           number         9    0    0    9       366.60      31.7    0.0    0.0   31.7        35.7    0.0    0.0    0.0   35.7
Software, Spreadsbeet      xuwer          9    0    0    9        47.16       4.1    0.0    0.0    4.1         4.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.6
oftware IBKB              nwadr           9    0    0    9        62.60       5.4    0.0    0.0    S.4         6.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    6.1
softuareo  unordprcesing    number        9    0    0    9        44.54       3.9    0.0    0.0    3.9         4-3    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.3
ofterealort.an OUtilities    mxder        9    0    0    9        16.77       1.5    0.0    0.0    1.5         1.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.6
Desk                       number         9    0    0    9        31.44       2.7    0.0    0.0    2.7         3.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.1
Cbair                      number        16    0    0   16        15.72       2.7    0.0    0.0    2.7         3.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.1 IE
Printer StaMd              number         9    0    0    9        10.46       0.9    0.0    0.0    0.9         1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0
Pile Cabinet               rutber         9    0    0    9        41.92       3.6    0.0    0.0    3.6         4.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.1 I
Desk Lap                   number         9    0    0    9         3.14       0.3    0.0    0.0    0.3         0.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.3 --
Power Strip                Oumber         9    0    0    9         2.10       0.2    0.0    0.0    0.2         0.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2
Booksbelf                  number         9    0    0    9        10.43       0.9    0.0    0.0    0.9         1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.0
Cantrsl/Reg.Office Modems   number        0    3    6   15       157.20       0.0    4.5    9.1   22.7         0.0    5.3   10.9   11.2   27.3
CSSKIZ                    rxnSer          2    0    0    2    1046.01        20.2    0.0    0.0   20.2        22.7    0.0    0.0    0.0   22.7
Vehicles Clio              number         9    0    0    9    2672.42       231.3    0.0    0.0  231.3       260.3    0.0    0.0    0.0  260.3
Sub-Total                                                                    343.6    4.5    9.1  366.1       386.6    5.3   10.9   11.2  413.9



TOWal Ixvla            S1S                                                                      900.0   132.6      9.1   939.S      1023.0    14.6    10.9    11.3  1059.6
II. 33mw   rSI8
A. Bqukp ent OW                     lu nuu          -      -     -     -            -          0.0     0.0      1.0     2.0         0.0     0.0      1.2     1.2      2.4
3. VeiAel  OA                       1usmm           -      -     -     -            -         11.7 11.7    11.7    46.6            13.1    13.5    13.9    14.4   6S.0
C. Htsaer and SUlIles
Regioee" Ofices                1Um             -     -      -     -            -        10.1    1$.1    18.1    72.6         20.4    21.1    21.7    22.4    85.5
Local 1abz Offilces            ltu MP          -     -      -     -            -        17.6    17.6    17.6    7@.5         19.9    20.5    21.1    21.8    03.2
__.___. -----  ------  -----         ....... .........._ ....... ......__._ ............ ____.__..,.
a_-Tot&l                                                                                 35.0    36.6    35.8   143.1         40.3    41.5    42.6    44.1   168.7
Stoal     -       XST8                                                                           47.4    47.4    40.4   191.7         S3.4    55.0    # .0    59.7   226.1
U    *_._*  __.    e..                __   __            _     __-_00 w  i
Total                                                                                        956.2    60.0    57.5  1131.2       1076.4    69.7    40.0    70.9  1283.8
413 on vOnddol fto esab of tbe 9 ,gbenal offices.
Thit Cb ts Soa"l" by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  6/24/1993  16:44
.0W



abor PaL*et Developent rtoject                                                     P-
Table 10S. Institutioml Development
Lcal Institutilnal DOW. I1oeyWent Srvices
Detailed Cost Table
lot
Totals incudings Oontingemiss
Quantity               uit cost              Se Costa in W                                $
Vnit    01   02   03   04 Total           1-04        01    02    03    04 Total            01    02    03       OTotal
1. nMRSTMw Co=
A. management
Technical Assstance         staffmontha     0    2    0    0    2         2096.02       0.0  40.3   0.0   0.0  40.3           0.0  46.8   0.0   0.0  46.8
Fellowship                  months          0    2    2       0    3       838.41       0.0  12.1  12.1   0.0  24.2           0.0  14.0  14.5   0.0  28.5
equipment                   lumpsum        -    -    -    -    -               -        0.0  20.2  20.2   0.0  40.3          0.0  23.4  24.1   0.0  4*.S
Civil llorkg <               1,~sum        -    -    -    -    -               -        0.0  20.2  20.2   0.0  40.3          0.0  23.4  24.1   0.0  47.5
Sub-Total                                                                                0.0  92.7  52.4   0.0  145.1         0.0  107.6  62.7   0.0  170.3
D. Job sarob
Technical Assistance        stafffmth       0    2    0    0    2    2096.02            0.0  40.3   0.0   0.0  40.3           0.0  46.8   0.0   0.0  46.8
local Consultancy           staffmonthe    0    2    2    0    4             5.24       0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.2          0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.2
Fellowship                  months          0    2    2    0    3          838.41       0.0  12.1  12.1   0.0  24.2          0.0  14.0  14.S   0.0  28.5
aEcimept                     luMPS         _    _                              -        0.0   2.5   2.5   0.0   S.0          0.0   2.9   3.0   0.0   5.9
Materials                   lumpsula        -    -    -            _                    0.0   5.0   0.0   0.0   S.0          0.0   5.8   0.0   0.0   S.8 I
Sub-Total                                                                                0.0  60.1  14.7   0.0  74.8          0.0  69.7  17.6   0.0  87.3 C.
C. Cllent Assess/Counselling
Technical Assistance         staffuoneta     0    2    2    0    3    2096.02           0.0  30.2  30.2   0.0  C0.S          0.0  35.1  36.2   0.0  71.3
Loeal Conusnltany           stttfimotha     0   12   12    0   24            5.24       0.0   0.6   0.6   0.0   1.2          0.0   0.7   8.7   0.0   1.4
Fellowship                  months          0    3    0    0    3          838.41       0.0  24.2   0.0   0.0  24.2          0.0  28.1   0.0   0.o  28.1
Uqulpment                   luapsmr        -    -    -    -    -               -        0.0  10.1  10.1   0.0  20.2          0.0  11.7  12.1   0.0  23.0
materials                   lusprem         -    -    -    -    -              -        0.0   S.0   5.0   0.0  10.1          0.0   5.8   6.0   0.0  11.9
Sub-Total                                                                                0.0  70.1  46.0   0.0 116.1          0.0  81.4  SS.0   0.0 136.4
D. Job Development
Tecbnieal Assistance        staffuonths    0    2    0    0    2    2096.02             0.0  40.3  .0.0   0.0  40.3          0.0  46.0    0.0   0.0  46.6
Locr.., consultaney         staffmonths    0    2    0    0    2             S.24       0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.1          0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.1
Pellowship                  Months          0    3    0    0    3          838.41       0.0  24.2   0.0   0.0  24.2          0.0  28.1   0.0   0.0  2B.1
Materials                    luPfiaum       -    -    _                                 0.0   S.0   0.0   0.0   6.0          0.0   S.8   0.0   0.0   S.8
Sub-Total                                                                                0.0  69.6   0.0   0.0  69.6          0.0  60.6   0.0   0.0  80.8
S. Large Scale Layoffs
Teehnical Assistance        staffuontha     0    2    0    0    2    2096.02            0.0  40.3    0.0   0.0  40.3         0.0  46.8   0.0   0.0  46.8
Local Consultancy           staffmonths     0    3    0    0    3            5.24       0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.2          0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0    0.2
Fellowship                  months          0    3    0    0    3          938.41       0.0  24.2   0.0   0.0  24.2          0.0  28.1   0.0   0.0  28.1 t
Sub-7ttal                                                                                0.0  64.6   0.0   0.0  64.6          0.0  7S.0   0.0   0.0  75.0jf
--- --   --- -    - ---   -- --- --- --  --- -    - ---   -- --- --- -------- 4
Total INVU1ssNUr COSTS                                                                          0.0 357.2  113.1   0.0 470.2         0.0  414.5 135.3   0.0 549.B
1. hRCmnnte COSTS
A. MAnagemet:Uqpipeft OK         luq            -.    -    -    -    -              -        0.0   3.0   6.1   6.1  15.2          0.0   3.S   t.3   7.S  18.3
S. Job Searcbhtquipment C&M      luopumM        -    -    -    -    -               -        0.0   0.4   0.8   0.8   1.9          0.0   0.4   0.9   0.9   2.3
C. Client Assess:Squip.O&M       lup            -           -    -    -             -        0.0   1.S   3.0   3.0   7.6          0.0   1.8   3.6   3.8   9.2
D. local Staff Salaries
D.Loal S t                  staffmonths     2    2    2    2    B           10.48       0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.8          0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.0



total R2"U5 T cOSTS                                                                                0.2    5.2  10.1  10.1  25.6           0.2    6.0   12.1  12.S  30.8
.      *..._ .       . We   wo.       ._. 0..    e..._. ._    _
TOtWl                                                                                           0.2  362.3  123.2  10.1 495.8         0.2  420.5  147.4  12.S  580.6
41 Refurbishing of Phyuical space for two local labor offtics.
UMt Coasts Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 8/24/1993 16:44
.                                                    s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



Labor brket Develoment Project
Table 201. Training, anterprise and bployment Fund (3SF)
ftund _Nagmmnt and Tebnicial Assistance
Detailed Cost Table
lek
Totals Incndig C*ntingmj*miw
Quantity               Unit Cbst             Base costs in gS$                             vS$
vat      01    02    03    04Total         1-04         01     02     03     0   Total        01     2a    03        4 Total
X. to         coon
_*______________
A. Tund Volicles/frocedures
Techical Asistance           staifuontha      3     a     0     0     3     2096.02      C0.5    0.0    0.0    0.0   60.S       68.1    0.0    0.0    0.0  60.1
Fellowship                   months           3     0     0     0     3      836.41      24.2    0.0    0.0    0.0  24.2        27.2    0.0    0.0    0.0   2.2
wimnt                        lu              -     -     -     -     -           -       33.3    0.0    0.0    0.0   33.3       31.4    0.0    0.0    0.0  3PF.4
Sub-Total                                                                                117.9    0.0    0.0    0.0  117.9    132.7    0.0    0.0    0.0  132.7
B. Fund Mktg.Strategy/Nter. d1>.
Techical Assistance          staffntha        1     2     1     0    4      2096.02      20.2   40.3   20.2    0.0  00.6        22.7  46.8   24.1    0.0   93.6
Cotnultancy                  staffontha       4    18    1S    18   58        10.48       0.4    1.8    1.8    1.8    5.8        0.5    2.1    2.2    2.2    7.0
Fellowship                   Mnths            2     0     0     0     2      038.41      16.1    0.0    0.0    0.0   16.1       18.1    0.0    0.0    0.0  18.1
Materials                    lsram           -     -                                     I S _  _  15.1   20.2    S.0    0.0   40.3  17.0  23.4    6.0    0.0  46.4
3quipesnt                    lupsusB         -     -     -     -     -           -        0.0  25.2    0.0    0.0  25.2          0.0  29.2    0.0    0.0  29.2
Sub-Total                                                                                 51.9 87.S  27.0   1.8  168.1           58.3  101.5  32.3    2.2  194.4
C. Ttaing contracts
Tecbnical Assistane          staffmonths      1     0     0     0     1     2096.02      20.2    0.0    0.0    0.0   20.2       22.7    0.0    0.0    0.0  22.7  1
cossultanty                  staffmouths      3     0     0     0     3        5.24    , 0.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2         0.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2
Materials                    1i~.us          -     -     -     -     -           -        S.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    5.0        5.7    0.0    0.0    0.0   5.7 4,5
Sub-Total                                                                                 25.3    0.0    0.0    0.0   25.3       28.5    0.0    0.0    0.0  28.5
D. Job Insert.Train.Contract
Technical Assistance          staffinontha    1     0     0     0     1     2096.02      20.2    0.0    0.0    0.0  20.2        22.7    0.0    0.0    0.0  22.7
consultancy                  staffmointb      3     0     0     0     3        5.24       0.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2        0.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2
Materials                      MPuOuR        -     -     -     -    -            -        5.0    0.0    0 0    0.0    5.0        S.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    5.7
Sub-Total                                                                                 25.3    0.0    0.0    0.0   25.3       28.5    0.0    0.0    0.0  26.S
S. Fund ActivityS Xncubatra
Tebhnical Assistance         staffnontbh      0     3     1     0    4      2096.02       0.0   60.S   20.2    0.0   60.6        0.0  70.1   24.1    0.0  94.3
Consultancy                  staffaonthe     0      8     0     0     B       10.46       0.0    0.8    0.0    0.0    0.8        0.0   0.9    0.0    0.0    0.9
Fellowship                   months          0      3     0     0     3      838.41       0.0  24.2    0.0    0.0  24.2          0.0   28.1    0.0    0.0  28.1
Sub-Total                                                                                  0.0   S.S  20.2    0.0  10S.6         0.0   99.2  24.1    0.0  123.3
F. Fund Activity sRtreprClub
Technical Aslitan e          staftfmnths      1     0     0     0     1     2096.02      20.2    0.0    0.0    0.0   20.2       22.7    0.0    0.0    0.0  22.7
Conaultancy                  stafftmonth     3      6     3     0    12       10.48       0.3    0.6    0.3    0.0    1.2        0.3    0.1    0.4    0.0    1.4
Fellowship                   months          0      1     1     1    3       838.41       0.0    8.1    8.1   8.1  24.2          0.0   9.4    9.6    9.9  28.9
Sub-Total                                                                                 20.5    8.7    8.4    6.1   45.S       23.0  10.1  10.0   9.9  S3.0
a. Fund Activity:1nplementat
Technical Assistance         staffmonths      1     2     2     1    6      2096.02      20.2   40.3  40.3   20.2  120.9        22.7  46.8   48.2   24.9  142.6
Consultacy                   staffnonthe      1    2      2     1    6        10.48       0.1    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.6        0.1    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.7
Waterials                    lumeg4n         -     -     -     -     -           -        S.0    5.0    5.0    5.0   20.2        5.7    5.8    6.0    6.2  23.8
Vehicles                     nsiber           1     0     1     0     2     2672.42      25.7    0.0   25.7   0.0   S1 4        28.9    0.0   30.7    0.0   S9.7
Sub-Total                                                                                 51.0  4S.S  71.2   25.3  193.1         S7.4   52.9   85.2   31.2  226.7
H. Funds MZB t2,
Tecbnical Asistance          staffmonths      0     2     1     1    4      2096.02       0.0   40.3   20.2   20.2   60.6        0.0  46.8   24.1   24.9   9S.8



Consultanoy                 intaffmonths    0    2    2    2    6          10.40       0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.6          0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.7
8ub-TItal                                                                               0.0  40.S   20.4  20.4  81.2        0.0  47.0  24.4  25.1  S6.S
Total IUVUB2NT COSTS                                                                        291.8  267.6  147.1  S5.S 762.1    328.5  310.6  176.0  68.S  003.6
1I. RIURwUr  COSTS
A. Eguipment OUE                 luunsu- -    -                  -    -            -       5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0  20.1          S.7   S.$   6.0   6.2  23.7
S. Staff Salaries. Policy        staffnotths   36   36   36   36  144           10.48      3.6   3,6   3.6   3.6  14.5          4.1   4.2   4.3   4.5  17.1
C. Vehicle O&M                   luapsm         -    -    -    -    -              -       1.3   1.3   2.6   2.6   7.8          1.S   1.S   3.1   3.2   9.3
Total REX r  COSTS                                                                            9.9   9.9  11.2  11.2  42.4         11.2   1.S   13.5  13.9  S0.1
Total                                                                                    301.0  277.6  150.4  66.0  804.S    339.7  322.2  189.6  82.4  933.7
wa*~._ ....... ..... _ .._._........ _.. _._._......... --._ .......... .- .... --.... -..  -----    ----. --- -.... ---.l._.__
%U- funds In years 2 and 3 to be used for mass media marketing.
<22 N * 8 Exercise. Additional support from U8P UOlt at world Bank.
Untl Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 8/24/1993 16:44
.,



labor  Iket D 4eseiuet Prleat
Table 202. Training, Sctaprlae and SM1OYWAt fund (TM)
lund Resoures
Detailed Cost table
ldc
totals I5MU41fl3 Oostiagemole
Quantlty       ulnt cost                  9as  Co>sts InIB8$                                      =
U_ _in         S..iS .        _    _    _     _    _    _    _ -- UUUUU..Ui    _.U. U           U ~ S
WAIt  01-04 ToWal          1-04           01      02       03       04   Total           ox      02       03       04   twoa
______--    -----    ........... _...... ._..__......... ... .... ___.._..   .... _,__....____..__.............
a. nw    S'DI coS
A. Fund ResoKurces           1  _su       -     -             -       214.0   420.0    6540    44.6  2142.6          214.0   426.0    634.0   644.6  2142.6
;;;:-               .... .. .  -----     .. _...... .......... .......  .......... .... .....,........... _.......... ....___....... __... _
total IUnV TSr COST                                                       214.0   418.0   854.0   644.6  2142.6          214.0   426.0   64.0  6444.4  2142.6
*__ .........e   .n  -   _    -   ....       ....      .......e. w  .in. . in_  * . _ ....................__
Total                                                                 214.0   420.0   6S4.0   644.6  2142.6          214.0   428.0   656.0   644.   2142.6
WUat Cote Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  6/24/19S3  16:44
l
I!



- 67 -n
LABOR MARKIT          T P
Summarv of Technlcal Assistance Innuta
S.    Insititutional Development
A. National Labor Policy:
Organixation/Strategic Planning
1. Organizational Framework                                  2
2. Action Plan                                                2
3. Staff Training                                            2
B. National Labor Policy:
Labor Market Information
1. Occupational Industry Codes                               2
2. MIS System  Refinement                                     2
3. Systems Development/Software                              2
4. MOL Training: Statistics                                  2
C. Project Coordination Unit
1. Procedures                                                2
2. Infrastructure                                             1
3. Financing/Reporting                                        2
4. Procurement                                                5
D. Local Institutional Development
Registration/Payment of the Unemployed
1. Concept of Operations                                      2
2. Plan: Application Architecture                             2
3. Plan: Software Development/Pilot                           9
4. Plan: User Training                                        3
S. Plan:  Policy/Procedures Training                          3
6. Plan: Test/Data Conversion                                 4
7. Plan: Monitoring & Evaluation                              2
S. Local Institutional Development
smployment Services
1. Management Services                                        2
2. Job Search                                                 2
3. Client Assessment/Counselling                              3
4. Job Development                                            2
5. Large Scale Layoffs                                        2
P. Training Enterprise and Employment Fund (TEEF)
1. Fund Policies/Procedures                                   3
2. Fund Marketing Strategy/Materials                          4
3. Training Contracts                                         1
4. Job Insertion Training Contracts                           1
5. Fund Activity: Incubators                                  4
6. Fund Activity: Enterprise Clubs                            1
7. Fund Activity:  Implementation                             6
S. Fund Activity: Monitoring and Evaluation                  41
TOTAL     84
uAVM=U=\UWP&A



- 69 -                            Ann 
LaBAR MARET DVnopNmmNT PROm=JT
Indicators for Monitorina and Evaluation
1.   Three types of indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate the
project: (a) inuut indicators to measure whether project inputs such as
technical assistance, equipment, civil works, and staff training are delivered
on time, in the right quantity and quality; (b) 2M=  indl=ore to measure
whether and to what extent services or products to be delivered such as labor
market statistics, registration and payment of the unemployed, training and
employment programs financed through the Fund, disbursement of Fund resources,
or employment services in LLOs are actually delivered; and (c) 2Mtcoms
iMdcators to measure the effectiveness of the services and products delivered
and the extent to which project objectives are actually attained.
2.   The detailed project cost tables in Annex C of this report list project
inputs in the amounts and timing proposed for project implementation; these
tables will form the basis for monitoring the flow of project inDuts. Quality
of project inputs will be measured against specifications for services or
goods to be delivered as indicated in procurement and service contracts.
Project output will be measured in terms of delivery of component activities
as listed in respective sections of the project description chapter of this
report, viz., paras. 3.5, 3.7, 3.11, 3.15, 3.17, and 3.24. A matrix listing
these activities has been prepared and is included in the project
implementation manual.
3.   Project outcome indicators are more difficult to define and measure.
The remainder of this annex summarizes the methodologies proposed for
monitoring and evaluating outcomes of the two most complex project activities,
registration and payment of the unemployed and the Training, Enterprise and
Employment Fund (TUEF).
Monitorina and Evaluation of Reaistration and Payment of the Unemloved
4.   This activity will be evaluated on the basis of improvements in
administrative efficiency of registration and payment activities. The
principal question is does it increase the ratio of unemployed persons
registered/paid per staff in the local labor offices? A secondary question
involves the cost-effectiveness of automation at the regional offices: does
the improvement in quantity and quality of data processing, recording and
service delivery justify the cost of automation? The client-staff ratio will
be sensitive not only to administrative efficiency but also to the number of
unemployed persons eligible to register and receive payments.  It is assumed
that Project-provided management assistance to LLW. will help establish
guidelines on efficient allocation of staff between registration/payment
functions and other activities, and that appropriate staff allocation changes
are made as and when the nature of demand for services changes.



- 70 -
S.    To answer these questions the following administrative data will be
maintained on a monthly basis and monitored for changes over time:
(a)   For all Local Labor Offices (LLO)
(i)   Size of population in the LW's area of responsibility
(ii)  Total LLO staff
(iii) Number of staff working on registration and payment of the
unemployed
(iv)  Number of registered unemployed
(v)   Number of new registrants in past month
(v)   Number receiving unemployment benefit
(vi)  Number of new recipients in past month
(b)   For Regional Labor Offices (RLO)
(i)  Same information as above, for the local area being served
directly by the RLO
(ii) Same information as above, aggregated for the entire region
6.   These data will also be monitored for changes observed (a) before and
after improved manual procedures are introduced; and (b) before and after
improved automation procedures are introduced.
Mgnitorina and Evaluation of TEE? Activities
7.   TBBP activities for training and small business development services
will be evaluated separately for each activity. For institutional and job
insertion training, the issue is did the training lead to a job? In the case
of small business clubs and incubators, the issue is whether these activities
facilitate the startup of small businesses and the creation of jobs. A
secondary question is the cost-effectiveness of each activity. Monitoring and
evaluation strategies for answering these questions are presented below by
type of activity. TEBF would report quarterly to the Project Coordination
Omit the number of sub-contracts by type of activity, the value of contracts
awarded, and the number of potential or actual beneficiaries. Assessments of
outcome indicators would be reported annually.
S.    ?stitutlonal Trainina.  Determining whether training leads to a job or
not will require a follow-up survey of training participants. A follow-up
survey should be completed for each class or cohort of trainees on completion
of their training. The follow-up survey should include completers and non-
completer for comparison of training outcomes. The survey should be
undertaen lnot later than six months after the training has been completed.
Beyond determining if the training contract and placement target has been met,
there is a more complex set of issues influencing training outcomes that
requires an understanding of factors that may intervene to affect the
employability and placement of trainees.
9.    The follow-up survey would be used to gather additional information to
sort out the influence of these factors. For example, how important are basic
skills and prior schooling to training outcomes? Do demographic



- 71 -                            AM= a
characteristics influence job placement and training outcome? DO umrealitic
earnings expectations and limited job search affect training outcome? Now
important are other income sources to the duration of job search and
employment outcomes? The study of these issues is importont for policy
development to improve TENF training outcomes. The data to be collected in
the follow-up survey by each training contractor are described below along
with administrative data to be maintained.
(a)  Trainee follow-up survey
(1)  Employment status
(2)  Monthly earnings and benefits of employed trainees
(2)  Methods of job search used
(3)  Duration of job search
(4)  Monthly earnings expected by unemployed trainees
(5)  Other income sources available
(b)  Administrative records
(1)  For each trainee
(i)  Age
(ii)  Gender
(iii) Years of school completed
(iv)  Place of residence
(v)  Type of training
(vi)  Training completion status
(2)  For each training contract
{i)  Number of trainees
(ii) Allowable cost claimed per TRIP trainee by type of
training
10.   Job Insertion Trainina.  The principal outcome indicator is what
percentage of the trainees complete their on-the-job training and wbat
percentage are retained as regular employees? Beyond this, a secondary
question is the cost effectiveness of this training compared with
institutional training.  A more complex policy issue involves whether the
jobs filled by job insertion trainees are new ones that would not have been
created except for the training subsidy provided by the TUF? A list of
performance indicators is provided below that employers would provide for each
training contract.
(a)   Number employed prior to TgIF job insertion contract
(b)   Current number employed at completion of contract
(c)  Number of job insertion trainees hired
(d)   Number of job insertion trainees quitting prior to completion of
training period
(e)  Number of trainees retained at conclusion of training period
(f)  Average starting salary of retained trainees
(g)   Allowable cost claimed per TEEF job insertion trainee
(h)  Non-allowable training cost per IEEF job insertion trainee
(i)  Value of production per job insertion trainee during training
period



-73 -                         At*    F
LABOR MNR1=T 2NvlUnMnT PROJ8CS
Strategy foe Pro4set IinJgMletaion
1.   The implementation of the Labor Market Development Project consists of
the delivery of a variety of interrelated technical assistance, physical site
preparation, and computer and office equipment acquisition and installation,
as well as sub-projects to be carried out under the Training, Enterprise and
Employment Fund (TEEF). To accomplish this project, a strategy for
implementation has been developed which includes the following three technical
assistance acquisition packages.
a. A firm will be hired to provide technical support to establish the
PCU, providing assistance.in the areas of management procedures,
administrative infrastructure, reporting and procurement.
b. A firm will be hired to provide technical support for the
development of national and local labor institutions including the following
activities: (i) strategic planning and management at the MOLSP; (ii) labor
market information; (iii) registration and payment of the unemployed; and (iv)
development of local employment services.
c. A firm will be hired to provide technical support to establish the
TEEF, including its administrative and management procedures, and develop four
types of sub-projects for TEBF funding: institutional training, job-insertion
training, small business incubators, and small business clubs.
2.   The most urgent activities, including establishment of the PCU,
registration and payment of the unemployed, and establishment of the TSBF are
being funded under the PPF and have already been initiated. Development of
local employment services, will start in the second project year (around July
1994). it is expected that implementation of sub-projects under the TEBF will
start gradually and will peak during the third project year. TBSP funds are
hence expected to disburse at the following rate: Year 1: 10; Year 2: 20;
Year 3: 40*; Year 4: 30*, with supplementary funding from other donors
building up over time, if early implementation is successful.
3.   The table below provides a breakdown of the estimated costs and
procurement arrangements for investment activities under the project,
presented by component and subcomponent.



TableLL ls  SOR  ISK3 D3VDWNIWE PROJBCT*
Breakdown of Estimated Inveostmet Costs and Procure t Arrat
(in S$*l, 000)
-oC0ST                                                        OD                   UCTZ sr  W
*3T!~CA  DmLUoH   - ETCEl  .3RILC
S.     Organisational/gtrategic Planig
A. Tcnical Ahu1stace
1)  Organizational Framework           45.4            Firm                  MAP           July-93        Dec-94
2)  Action Plan                        4S.4            Firm                  ASAP          Sept-93        Dec-94
3)  Staff Training                     45.4            Firm                  AAP           Sept-93        Dec-94
B. zFllBo12bJJ
1)  Organizational Framework           27.2            Individual             TBD              TBD           TOD
2)  Staff Training                     SS.3            Individual             TBD              TOD           TSD
C. jgu3p3mgt
1)  Office Equipment                   86.3            ICa                Sept-93           Nov-93        Dec-93    1
2)  Materials                          44.S            Direct Contracting Sept-93           Nov-93        Dec-93
II. * Labor  arket Informti
A.                                                                             .
1)  Occupational/Industry Codes        45.4            Firm                 A9AP           Sept-93        Dec-93
2)  MIS Systems Refinement             46.1            Firm                 AAP            Sept-93        Dec-93
3)  System. Development & Software   45.4              Firm                 ASAP           8ept-93        Dec-93
4)  MOL Training:Statistics            45.4            Firm                 ASAP           Sept-93        Dec-93
D.
1)  MIS Systems Refinement             27.2            Individual             TBD              TOD           TBD
2)  NO. Training:Statistice            56.1            Individual             TOD              TBD           1SD



Takle 1: LABOR MARKBT DBVBIOPMENT PROJECT
Breakdown of Estimated Investment Costs and Procurement Arrangements
(in US$1,000)
coucuin                                      con        amom                  swaCTIOu    c      13         0I
C. _
1)  Materials                        59.0           Direct Contracting Dec-93          Feb-94          TID
III.  frojeot Cmordiatlounit
A. Tcbnical- Assistance
1)  Procedures                       4S.4           Firm                 ASA"         July-93       Sept-93
2)  Infrastructure                   22.7           Firm                 ASAP         July-93       July-93
3)  Financial Reporting              4S.4           Firm                 AAP          July-93      July-93
4)  Procurent                       117.7           Firm                 ASAP         July-93       June-9i
1)  Vinancial Reporting              16.4           Individual            TOD             TED          TED
2)  Procurement                      16.4           Individual            TOD          May-93       Jume-93
C. Cixil Works
1)  Renovation                        5.7           Local Shopping       AAP          July-93       Sept-93
D. X    nt
1)  RN & SW                          31.7           Inter. Shopping      ASAP          May-93      July-93
2)  Fruriture                         2.4           Local Shopping       MAP           May-93      July-93
B. Vehlles                              28.9            Inter. Shopping      ASAP          May-93      July-93
.1



Tablk I: LABOR MARRKT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Breakdown of Estimated Investment Costs and Procurement Arrangements
(in U81, 000)
cSlamgvoum                                     CoST         IU!rnD                 SELECSTIO        S1mUnTAR2g= 0L3TZ
I3S!Imnas  DLOCALPEnr - nC?rs am  DNV3WP
IV. Registratiom/Paymmnt of the Va"3.loyed
A. Tebl   AssistuM
1)  ConCept of Operations              45.4             Firm                   SAP          July-93        Aug-93
2)  Plan: Applicaton Architecture    45.4               Hirm                   SAP          July-93        Aug-93
3)  Plan: SW Development/Pilot        204.2             Firm                  ASAP          July-93       June-94
4)  Plan: User Training                68.1             Firm                  ASAP          iept-93        Oct-93
5)  Plan: Policy and Procedures
Training                    66.1             Firm                  ASAP           Aug-93        Oct-93
6)  Plan: Test/Data Conversion         90.7             Firm                  ASAP           Aug-93        Nov-93
7)  Plan: Mknitoring & Evaluation    45.4               Firm                  A8AP           Aug-93       9ept-93   o
1)  H1 &  W8                            142             ICB                Sept-93           Nov-93        Dec-93
2)  Furniture                          11.6             Local sbopping     Sept-93           Oct-93        Nvi-93
C. Vehglasl                               260.3            ICe                  Jul-93          Sept-93       Sept-93
B . Civil Norks
1)  Renovations                        S1.0             Local Shopping Jun-Aug-93            Oct-93        Feb-94
V. amloymeat service
A. Technical-AqsiAtanOe
1)  Management                         46.8             Firm                May-94           JuI-94           TOD
2)  Job Search                         46.8             Firm                May-94           Jul-94           TED
3)  Client Assessment/Counselling      71.3             Firm                May-94           Jul-94           TBD
4)  Job Development                    46.8             Firm                May-94           Jul-94
S)  Large Scale Layoffs                46.8             Firm                May-94           Jul-94
8. Pello2hRn



Table 1:  LABOR MARKET DBVBLOPMBNT PROJBCT
Breakdown of Estimated Investment Costs and Procurement Arrangements
(in US$1,000)
CXlwoumIIS                                     COST        UmnRTD                SELBCTON          STn W       COAmRS
1)  Management                        28.S             Individual             TBD             TED           TED
2)  Job Search                        28.5             Individual             TBD             TED           TOD
3)  Client Assessment/Counselling    29.1             Individual              TBD             TBD           TED
4)  Job Development                   28.1            Individual              TBD             TOD           TED
S)  Large Scale Layoffs               28.1            Individual              TED            TSD            TBD
C. Civil, Works
1)  Refurbishing two local Offices   47.5             Local Shopping  May-Jun-94           Aug-94        Mar-94
D. Bouipment & Materials
1)  Equipment - Management            47.5            ICB                  Jul-94          Sep-94           TED
2)  Equipment - Job Search             5.9            ICB                  Jul-94          Sep-94           TED   9
3)  Equipment - Client Assessment/   23.8             ICE                  Jul-94          Sep-94           TED
4)  Materials - Job Search             5.8            Local Shopping       Jul-94          Sep-94           TBD
S)  Materials - Client Assessment/   11.9             Local Shopping       Jul-94          Sep-94           TBD
Counselling
6)  Materials - Job Development        S.8            Local Shopping       Jul-94          Sep-94           TED
lUUYNi. 31T33RPRI  AND  IPLOTNEIT PDRD (THEY)
I.     Fund AdmiWtzation & ActivitieS
A. Technical Assistance
1)  Fund Policies/Procedures          68.1            Firm                  ASAP           Jul-93        Sep-93.
2)  Fund Marketing Strategy           93.6            Firm                   ASAP          Jul-93        Jul-95 
3)  Training Contracts                22.7            Firm                  ASAP           Jul-93        Jul-93
4)  job Insertion Training Contract  22.7             Firm                   ASAP          Sep-93           TED
5)  Fund Activity: Incubators         94.3            Firm                  ASAP           Jan-94           TBD
6)  Fund Activity: Enterpreneuship   22.7             Firm                   ASAP          Sep-93           TED
7)  Fund Activity: Implementation   142.6             Firm                   ASAP          Sep-93            D
8)  Monitoring & Evaluation           95.8            Firm                   ASAP          Sep-93           TBD



Table t: LABOR MM=KET DVEVWPMHMT PROJBCT
Breakdown of Estimated Investment Costs and Procurement Arrangements
(in Ut$1,000)
cormDuT                                       COST                               SLnETo                    
3. Isilavakina~~. 
1)  Fund Policies/Procedures          27.2            Individual          Dee-93              TMD           TED
2)  Fund Activityt Incubators         28.1            Individual          Dec-93             TSD            TBD
3)  Fund Activity: Enterprise Club   26.9             Individual          Dec-93             TBD            TBD
'4
C. 
1)  Fund Policies/Procedures          37.4            Inter.Shopping         ToD              TBD           TBD
2)  Fund Marketing Strategy           29.2            Inter.Shopping          TOD             TOD           TBD
D. Bat2rials
1)  Fund Marketing Strategy           46.4             Inter.shopping
2)  Training Contracts                 5.7            Local Shopping
3)  Job insertion Training Contract   5.7             Local Shopping
4)  Fund Activity: Implementation    23.8             Inter.Shopping
D. Vlhi:los
1)  Fund Activity: implementation    S9.7             I                    Jul-93         Sept-93        Sep-93
SS.    Fund Resources
A.  Technical Assiuttau2 1              1800.0            Firm               Sept-93          Jan-94           TBD
1Wj
1/Note:  Service Contratracts for subprojects to provide a) adult training services and job insertion lon-
the-job) training; and b) enterpreneurship assistance, including development of sall business incubators
and clubs.



Uidecivs                  ci'ita                                       hAmuimn
n.st 1.  Imntitatimat {osvlat - to support the txzsitim  to the merkt eccuw  by de1_pot of e                      a  lbo  palle. _* eustt
int.tutitnu/sezvie  at the natinaml ad Local leel.
A. Iatiamt Labor Valley - to  opnort th  temitiom to the _inaget eo.1  by dwelopuet of appropriate national ldor pa*lies   titwitme. ad
infoasetion eviIces.
I.  VIm: To  a.  1r*s Lamine altexuatime me develp    MuIieftys et Labor           aeo.stiome ter               100 Southa
develop a    *     - orguait almerk ez th  Kintay o    m  Socials                          rationell* ttolln ot f_mo      basam   IpS
*tretegic A        Laor that. inoWlos t, iut tot limite  to.          teotit   an")        within h  lmieut               Si ketdr _3K
oremtsational      ectivities of abo petectie. Wmmpopmt
plan fo  the       beheflt adminitatim S mploplmalt aervie.
Mnistry of         arentioeip ad tralnis. labor market
Labor.             Infrastion. io&uutel reltioms,  _ieaim.
scial assietme. em politieal prismnt"  ad
amral  liitrta
b.  "Im_  Plma Develop a atsen pla Si            UI                     luprovel 1wiammttm of          3qterr  t3  -
timetable for iupl_amtatlce oft e  fumetiens.                           UIAldUt7' fonetimes           Is_z lI
a. Saff tralit Deeloop .i tmpImatt a             "MI                    Improved I eaantl'ty o  tihe   September . -
staft training proctrm to support develqpsent                             inidet'oe  *rr.ce  1t K
*nd iaplm_ ta tin of the fztm rtk.
d. J             :arrseLsr s Previde physical   tU.Ja Inyesd Stff                                      hip 133 -
infrastrucOture  t the nUtioel office to upport                         IrodstlwiLtrg loreva          Oeto br ltt
i.pltntlation of the aew tremmerk.                                         motlme  witb e4the
deveme  gm eie
________-_ .______________________ ___________   etera dam
1I!



2.  Labor  1brt    (a) Clasificatin                                    Statistice  Division,   imploed c_mrebility of          -epter
Inforutia: to       adptation of *ntrnitionel occupet.imal ad            iplout Srvice         AlManiS lbr   msrZ.             k. _      '    ,
impro""             todutry eoding to Albaia.                          Diretora,  IL8                le
mnitoring oft
labor force         (b) Iafointuiam                                    Statistics Division     BetabULb a souge. of            Septemer 
activity In tb.  rctlin _t oe  manaamt _lnto io t e ystow                                      inttrs quality dote On Dsctm 1 
emerging mrket    Inolving obtaining: 11) mploayfet dote _tem                                    aiplinai ad eupint
OcOnamy.            th   oc ial insurance p rorm *nd (IS) loccl                                In absenc et osurve  det
labor Offttl  data en teiotered arptloYeNt to
itprove the reiability. timelines and
occesibiit, of those data
(c) Sbotm o    S. e seaJb   Dswrlapwismts          8totistlce Divisitn     Impreoe quUty mad               toe  csmont on
introduction of met a syst_m for reportins of                             tiulree ot *   I   Ui rt        3Locl
unemployment data by loccl lebo  ottices to                                data *l ad prove moaitorg    Uagstretlon Md
regional labo offics ad sof e for reginta                                  and superiio     t eml               Icl of  a ot
labor  ttfice rspetit   of data to ML (this will                            tiapait services              lhas1aVS
be dan  under c_mpomt of lcal reistrotime of
the unumployad).
(d) TainIng:s ftr IfML Stt In mlpaing ad           atstlce Division  l mrod Labor US_dat ad               Sa_o te  Im  -
ptrenting labor market statistics to usroeaiaplc iep                                                                lw 
recantation!~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~a
3. Projecot.                      *umm  cdure : D  elop mngeant *4   Ftojoect Coordinating   Clearly definad onctionol         Jbul - Sesoaer              O
CAordilietig Unit   operating proeedures *nd adisee the Ministry of   Unit (PC). maLlp         tpeopmmbilities for Ku$         IM
(PoO): establish    separation of responsibility of PCU m*d                                    fttiimt md effective
a PCU to expedito   technical unlt  implaenting proj et coopnante.                             prject implemntation
projeet
Implementation.     b. Itrastructure: Prwide *ctartils to support    1C0                       Increas  d staff                July  Osror
project odsinistrtLien end procurent (-..                                  poductivity; bprod              t109
computer support. word ptreeesing  tf. copwing,                             eaunlc tiens with external
trnsport. intrpretation).                                                  dones
e. Rporting; provide point of contact with the    PCU                      lftfo imt project               starting July
ank and prepare all financil nd progtrm                                   tpleo  tatla. dilburseonrt   1633
reperts for the Sak,                                                       of I"D tfod
4. Ir ocremat: Advise all tehneical unita en    P1                         Correct pr_rnt                  etortig July
Bank procutment mn undertake all proremen_t                                preaties                        USI
based an specltications developed by technical
units.
.   ,   .  ...   . ..    .   ...   ...  .                        .               . ..  ..~ ~ ~~~~I



D.  L1al iotittiimol D_weiat: To iopme the efficleo    ml  eet-.ffectivstw. of loevl lbo  offieet in previdie ltoom  eua
radlploi.ut *ervicee to the utm.pleye.
1. Easel            a. Cuacapt of lp.rat im: Iblep the aemeept. IaPltheeot.3lo   eit B e oatioeli*4tl       o et  sedate    mly -     _
ReistnUet   ml    of bmetit adaluiatratico at the tr.giaal.            lctoeatt (fSD).        m  sytims forat rt.itreti       119J
?   qt of te         local. *nl aenoy ltevel 1,1 the ate"s at         six"                    mn pa "q t
lhmiodye:           clitnt registration.  aef tit elcel leon.
lorve* th           Monogams_t anttol, a"l _aem_t
efficieocy of       Infeineten. Ideotify the  nitoortice
re.litration am     pKesedag requ,irso_ts n tYh  *rs. to be
basaflt pe""Mmt    supp Mgtd by .tinAtiao mod th  won jileb
procedures In all   will rely o maue pmreseens.
local labr
offiees.            b. t    efimn ml UaUl:                           EU0                     soe r tuagarml time,            July - OCbhwe
bvolop and lplemoet on action pl  for ICereaassl ecaait-  foa                                             "33
achiavims the foell"ic    critisal  la1_tams                            kandlng mow_laymt kosft t
- site prqratimo tfor mle redlaml ofticte                                Parma"  imrgoved late
mn   o  centrel facllity.                                                coll,ucr 
- D"ecrib  thea tecture ot software to he
applied.
- llrdr. md software (package) acqlitiom
- Sottr. ev. -a piot  ple41tatim  in lt
least cue egimal offteo.
- traoing ot the agr. is the use of the
e*tpl_t ml the aration of th su tmAta
procedures
- Ovelopsot md trXaits to policy ml
peocdure. tor ottice  epratiew in alo
regional oftices
- atLIUS mld date covenrsion
c. ffmitorimg: Itablish c re porting             E5D                     WtAbllef tfaak to               statuls  Jily 103
nechanlem.                                                               cntisorn41_ y Sopsv eamrviee
I



2. 1al               .             Develop * plo to roJ do          US                       l tle n  md                       I -
_l.,ut              UbMoamt sa  adtia1atgstiom of local                                    cf&iomUootm ot f_WUo            US
S8Mootug: Develo    Mp1.P.mmt seaISe to imrewe o*f.imep sad                                of teU-ezi.o  mpost
1mel to_hiq_o       io-oqmra  m  foetlow (.e. _o  e  ot                                    offle
-  salft tt,,iU1    boftita. job umtbiu. mtemitlem, mod
mateil.s to    *     NpWAdad eeao).
Sorve the east-
*ffOtIVeoee of    b. Job $.*xt Deelop omi pilot toot job            iS                     lqeoe Job 0ooz. $%in*          say lOSt 1 *
so1loge at two      oeob/Job clob crolr   and tated  tft                                       I U wloFod
local I_.           treati   _       .
offico..                                                                                                                    _
e. CUlot he.smot md   MeOlsS, Dlev             U                       Impreve Jo georobdthlll md   hip1 US  * J
ad pilot tost oloplo aptit   A i,toot                                   eimo of oeoostm o             t 1oS0
"se$oaRo ietIONut,  oapatimok info.                                    _      d
t.Ariale, ad related etaft traliiwg
d. Job _.mdo_Ds eeo  mod pilot toot            US                       Zort le" _ 1_                            - J
improved nl.pee &"Ve"ls/Job devleip.m.                                 owpoutmiotio in doe Iota       toSS
Progrm md rotated staff traning m1o1to.                                maataspo   1lqo_eo
e. Loae Scale Uramb  De   md pile              UDS                     S0l  _1I        a" d     _     hi  US1 - _
toot Mae Waett rola"im., ,aviooe  md                                   ""I*" tot _otZis                OS
relate  sta rt tlonlau  Materials.                                     etfested by mos lp-oft                                 I
1CD
'I



Var II. Ttsiug, Oqarls. and _m               1  _'t to m ellore. sotuturl ui_mpla_,en, iqpxve prodtivity, and   I tlabr oCe  bif
1. trainng.         (a)  Ms&   riqn*: develop regultorv,             Trainin, bLerpis   Deisitln of 6t_as   ot              Jely - _mt 190
U*twwioo mu          anement, ed ,tfinistl tfrwaumrSi                 Si *ssMmt  Si   ?lW   etbll_hed pr.do_
_l0Uemt rau:    polcies end.procedures fo operato  of the            (tW)                   for wofroreet aprovals
to develp a         tow Ceo_*ents of th  Pad: taning. Job                                   tod coerdisman betweoe
_1m_hne  on         inwertioe. mall, bUi1n_ inubatr e  c .,                     TP   m_ 08
resor  to           (b) thokeoka   (1) develop etrat_e  Si            TM                    Croto dd  oPt ra _nd_                    $*tmer
proj1ect t          mtAris  Cor maketin  th  tut Vtial                                      disoamiseto Intomistiln  At   lS-
amold socoarag      cempen  Si tros local 1ab  oftle. stf                                   Paid *Jetii. appioa
end fecilitate      Si (1i) develop pritA Si audil-vlesl                                   otlnto
delop ot of         scvices to preset.  i  activities.
fleislee, dmed-
dtiven traing       (a) train   ad J& leetm  so*08met                1WCoroet UVUemWetati= Of  _1sptaen SW
prom  ed            develop ccsO etO. 1il1111g clAs  rela"ted to                            selectio oritoris Si            JeI  13ft
preLme the         etop o_iblitiae oCf (I) onatractor Ws.                                   rsibrele etagouies orl
eation of iaall   occupUton eto tcor      mo  m                                             training eu7Pojowte
enterprises.   r     ubetittim  tet Job Ineertion eon,tc.
duationo, eearicos Plamt,  d eosts) Si
(1i) labor office  e.. traine golection,
payoent. stipUnds. supervdiom. and m  iei)
contrect terlmnetle.
Ed) o1l bane _   8colmbtora: (l) Develup         IW                    Cotrrct 1we lup   rentatm of     5ep eer b OS t
preodros Sind  riterlea, eceoptable to the IDA.                         seloctioe crite   Sie           JuIp 199S                   Co
for SollelUng In _bater pro-dew lopmnt                                 reilbardable otwegorl;s;
proposals fIrem 3    then, rtqut proposls and                          usl-prepred IrouIal for
(it) oemlot selected PMo(s) to preper detei1ed                         mcol bsines  Isubetot rub-                                    t
plan  for  ana"gent, facility design,                                   projcet
provision of *mdl buesins. osdistnet
operation of wrtking capital ftd, and
aqipoat    t rqaimes.
(0)                p Clubs: eLsabliub local      IW                    Develop *lteria Si               3pdtsr lSS -
entrepreneurship clube/oslcatimens tun by                               ruibbuirabl e cotegoe  fSW      Jaly 10
ucceesful enttpren ors, to: () ptnmte the                              smll buinmess   *Wse-
exchange of lnfoetion betwe en    essful Sd                             proeoft
potetial t.r preeurs, (Mi) dissesate
information. ed Oil) facilitate cooperative
vont.ree.
Ct) I1pliLletio: implemen *11 feou   d SiQ                             *iLs dae_l_gm, tsved             starting Oept _
activities and train fund, IDL, Si LL  st                              1lomet .pogtoit   f             1e0n
in marketing, contrect d lopoent. Si                                   entlpd:s develc.ent ot
supervision                                                             =*tow     op ortauit.io  In
smal blase sector
________                                                                                ~-                                                         4l1  - --r-- - --  ,. .. ._.._



-85 -                                             AMU U
Detailed  Itnlementation  Plan for Y3AR  I
1. 9XSvi". The proposed Technical Assistaooe Project for Labor Market Development (MhD) is intended
to serve as a platform for subsequent investments in the sector, nd would establish/strengthen the basic
institutions and institutional linkages, human resource and implementation capacity needed to carry it the
following objectives:
(a)     increase the productivity and employability of the workforce;
(b)     izprove the flexibility of labor markets and strengthen the link betreen unemployment
benefits and employment services; and
(c)     expand capacity to manage labor market policies and institutions and support the transition
to a market economy.
2.      The project has been designed as a three year operation addressing oly the most pressing needs in
the development process. It will require significant technical assistance to project institutions given the
near bsence of expertise and experience in the country. The following paragraphs and the accompanying
chart (showing the timing relationships between activities) illustrate the key Implementation steps during
the first twelve months of the operation beginning at project appraisal.
3.      xev              The groups of key actions to be implemented during the first twelve  onths include
the following:
(a)    MObilization of the Pro1ect Coordinatina Uhit (PCU) and the imolementins Acencies  The
activities includes  i) staffing of the PCU in the Ministry of Labor (ML). The PW will
also  ssist t)m Directorate of Social Asistanee implement the Social Assistance component
in a parllel IDA operation on social Safety Net Development; (11) equipping and
refurbishing of PCU office; (III) recruitment of a Project Manager (PA) as early as
possible to assist P0W organize its activities and assist in the recruitment of other
consultants coaprising the first batch of specialists, and (iv) establishment of a Special
Account and drawdown of funds from the m  being considered by IDA for the project.
(b)     , D 3
Ii)     Pilot Trainina Center. The PRTC implementation team would be in place. A
specialist would be recruited to assist in defining a detailed PRTC plan/timetable.
A key PRTC staff member would be sent abroad for a study visit of training
institutions and progras. A local Arebitect/engineer would be recruitef to
prepare the designs for refurbishing DRTC facilities and oversee the execution of
the refurbishing contract.
(1i)    Trainiao and Bmnlovent Promotion  Pund.  Ie implementing team for the fund would
be organixed. Technical assistance would be recruited to (1) develop the Fund
managment framework; (2) define Fund allocation procedures; and (3) develop
training oontracts. The Pund management team would be appointed once the framework
is defined. Three key Fund staff would be sent for study visits of similar
progranm/nAstitutions abroad. The Training Pund Account would be established.
(iii)                    . Tearnlne  The isplementation team would be organized. A consultant would
be recruited to assist in the development of a timetble and orientation materials
for distance learning programs.
(i)     The employment services implementation team would be organised. Specialists would
be recruited to assist in (1) the development of an employment services management
4tructure; and (b) development of eore services.
(ii) Autgrtlen The services of specialists would be contracted to (1) develop the
conceptual model for the automation of employment services. and (2) develop an
automation timetable for MOLSP.
(d)     Naiellnttto adP a Deftlocomet



- 86 -                                    ANNEX U
U)    LhanulaJ.Ian.  Ipsealata woud  be recruited to develop an organizational
framewak.  my NOW   Asgre woul uadertsk study visits to observe eploymat
aervisee latutiae  oaud. Ipoial.ste would be recruited to aSist the  I=m
omiers on tesi metumn in (1) devopin  an actn plun. ad () developn  staff
(I4)    1_a1a_.  :poialists would be recruited to ssist NoW  (1J prop ms
layoff legislation and (b) prope a plan/timetabl. for implementig the
(iii)                         .Sptecialists wold be recruited to 11) re fio the WS for
the oal         oe  o     , and (2 a       nerntial eodig standrd  for
Mamia.



ALfAaA
LAOR MARKET V2ELOPMnTIfRO&EC
Detailed Implementation P    for YEAR 1
|                                                |            fte-affeftlwiv2    ezrlod                                         jIo.t-effetivenss I
I  I                                                                           I     Perod         I
I                                                |biath 1 Month 2 Month 3 Mouth 4 Month 5 mth 6 Mnth 7 Month 8 Month 9 Moth  lOMooth libonth 121
jitem              ACnvrnY/pROGRAN                       iI----------------------------------------i---------
I                                                 -_                                                                            I                   I
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~1 0o o O o o O o O   1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 31 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 
I                 .                              112 3 4 S 6 7 8 9 012 3 4 S 6 7 8 9 012  3 4 s 6 7 8 9 012 3 4 5 6 7 8 91 o 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 61
1 1.00 Mbbilize aV    d Xqlemmitatig WtS    I                                                                                    
I                                                                                    ........... _.._ .____ .......I         1                  ... I ..
11.10  8et up Special Account                    I   IRI      EK                                                                1
I 1.11   Request VW Funds/nitaial oepslt         I     -Zu w                                                                    II
1.20   Oeplete staff g of FM                   I....
1.30    latiate Trainiw_ visit to Q for FM x         x                                                                          I                   Im
| 1.40   UqAptfumish  M, 7BF and ML               
1.41   Ptqpne  eqsipoe    canwass foIm         I                                                                              I                   I
' 1.42   ObtaIn quotes for 9W equipemnt          I                                                                              Imm                 I
1.43   Select mot resposive offere             I                                                                              I                   I
1.44   larn p_rcamee orders                    I                           xI 
1.45   8q    deivey/iu.talltio  prieod        I                                 mm
I                                                I                                                                              I                   I'
1.50   logmallue im1eentatim  datieu for$   I                                                                                 I
Ift$ tMbor Policy D&Wla,mmft                I                                                                              IX
(b)  labor Iet Ifor te                I                            m 
| (cl p 8 e~~~~~~~~~ I                                                                                                           II
Cc)  ly.bnt Services tesm                                     3
I(d)   S   tin                             I                   _                                                          I
1.6   Is__                                                ____________                                                         I  
1.50   organhieT    inmoginent                                       -------- -----    Izmm
1.61   3stablish NW   accou,nt                 I
.______________,___..______,,,,,,,,_.___________     ____,________._____________,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,______________,,,_,_,_,,________.____




--@-------------   -----
y X "  S C  w o      0 1
,                                                        a
30                  e,8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w    
*~~~~~~li..."' X!-
sOn  .7 1~~~~~~11491-Mi  ~~~~~~~-  ~ ~ jI.           I'-1
.                              B I       , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w 0.   X,  X ,. :
.~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I.                      I"^ " 
-   ON.     i-on~~~~~~~~~~~~u,O
.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I w I                       I,,,,g
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U Sv tX
:~ ~       O                                _          ____f
~~~~~~~                          S~~~~~~~~~~w I
-: -  - -  - -                        --  -  -  -  -  -  - -
H -                                                              -
*                                          N  * i.e ax, a~~s



LABOR MUKE DEVEOKN
DetaUed .lmpltton       for YFAR1
I                                                      I              Pr-Bf.tiwsma  knio             I                                           Ifts-eff.tiwca. 
I                                                      I                                             I                                           I       wPeriod       I
I                                                      INOUth 1 Month 2 Nbth 3 Mmt  4 Noeth SI Month 6 Ibeth 7 Noa*th 8 Month 9 NonthllMofth l2.Ib.  121
ilten                 asTImxW/ws                       I -------------------- -------------------I --------------------------------------1I------------------1I
Ix                              1Wel k                                        I          Nook                              I                    I
100 00 0 00001111111111a22222222233333 3333 314 444  4444 1
11234567890123456789011234 S 67S901234567S9101234S67t1
------------------------  - -------------------------------------- -------------------------------------- ------------------!
(u) Trainig Coatrcsa (i)                                                                             m                  7W ,           I
I     v) Jocb Insertion Traiaug Contract (3m)                                                  I                             110 Too
(v)  Amd Activity:                   3p(3m)                                                                            ?BDD
I         (a)  reo(   Activity: npemntation (am)l                                                    I                            7xm            I                     I
______________ _________---_-_____------_--__--_------_-------_----__----__-___-_---__-____-___--  _................................................
lo
li



ALBANU
Deal  Iwmplematio- an for YER1
I           Pe-SffectiwenesS Period                                           ltPt-osfftiv@enel
Pefriod
tIMOnth 1 Math 2 Month 3 Mouth 4 mtb 5 Month 5 Month 7 Month 8 Mnth 9 MOUthIlOMnth lfth 1321
itte vm              AT M/PRO                     I -----------------------------------------------------------------------------1------------------1
Iweek                                             Week                          I                  I
I                                                 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 314 4 4 4 * 4 4 4 4
I1 2 3 4 5 6 7 B 9 0 1 2 3 4 S 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 910 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 0
3.00 *Send Cadates for Bttenral Training  |                                                                                                        I
3.10   select staff and trainiaig location'      1IB D                                                                                             I
3.11   Arrange training/travel accodations        T 1oo                                                                        j                                0
3.12   Period of external training fors t                                                                                       I
Oranstinaml/ftrategic PlannnQi                                       
I        (a(  Organizational frameworw (Ow) n        TQD                                                                                             J
lb) 8taff training O3m.)                I  TOD 
Labor Kurket Infornation                I  TBD
(c) MIS systems refinesent (3ae)            TaD                                                                         I                   I
(a) pnancial reporting (tlm)            |  TBD                                                                          I                   1
(e) Procurement (2w)                    I                  XXXX
I   _   t                           ~~~~                                                                                                ~~~~~I  I  I
(f) Fund Policies/Procedure  O3WN       I  TgD D
,/Arrngements to be done as part of TA contracts, except for PCIJ



ALBANIA
LABOR MhARKET DEVELOPMENTPROJECT
Detailed Implementation Pl?l for YA  1
I                                                  |             Pre-Uffectivenes Period                                              l|ost-effectivenemsl
1                                                   I                                                                                  I      !eriod       I
|                                                  |M*ntb  1 Month 2 Month 3 Mnrth 4 Month 5 Month 6 Month 7  onth 8 Month 9 Monthll%nth Illionth 121
|Item                ACeIVrTY/ftPROGD              I--------------------------------------------------------------------- I------------------I
I                                                    ellek                                             Iweek                           I                    I
100 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1  1 I 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 314 4 4 4 4 44 4 4 4
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 S 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 56   7 8 9 0 1 2  3 4 5  6 7 8  910 1 2 3 4 5 6  7 8
| 4.00   Refurbishing of Project Facilities       |                                                                                  |                    |
| 4.10   RefurbishLng of Labor Offices             |
4.11   Couplete survey of facilities              I                                  |                                                                    I
| 4.12   Prepare refurbishing plan/bid forom       |                                                                                   I.                  I ..|
4.13 4......t _                                          ...............                                                                ..............  ...
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



LABOR MAkRKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed bImpementation -Plan for YEAR I
I                                   I            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pre-Effectiveness Period                                 I Post -effectiveness l
I      Period 
I                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~IMonth I Month 2 Month 3 M4onth 4 Month S Month 6 Month 7 Month 8 Month 9 MonthlloMonth llMonth 121
irItem               ACTIVITY/FROGRAM-I---------------------------------------                                                            - --------
I                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Iweek                                     Week                            I
I    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ O~1  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3-3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 314 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 
11 2 3 4 S 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 S 6 7 8 910 1 2 3 4 S 6 7 8
S. .00   Bauiument ProcurementI
S. .10   Regional Labor offices                    I                                                                                                         I
S .11   Complete eqluipment list/bid documents  I                                                XlOfI                                   
S .12   Did evaluation                             I                                                              xx.x                   
S .13   Bid Selection                              I                                                                      xix
--- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- --



- 93-                              AN1M I
ALBANIA
LABOR MARKET DEVELOPENRT PROJECT
Key Socioeconomic Data
Total Population (1990)1                              3.3 million
Percentage of Population in Rural Areas               6St
Population Growth Rate, p.a. (1985-90)                2.0%
Working Age Population (1990)2                        1.9 million
Employed Population                                   1.2 million
Annual Per Capita Income:
1991                                            US$42S
1992                                            US$250
Average Household Size (1989) (# of persons):
Urban Areas                                     3.9
Rural Areas                                     5.3
Dependency Ratio                                      0.79
Total Employment by Sector (1990):
Agriculture                                     47?
Industry                                        24t
Sectoral Composition of Employment (1990):
Public Sector                                   63t
Cooperative Sector (mainly farming activity)    37t
Growth of Employment, p.a. (1980s)                    2.5%
Labor Force Growth Rate, p.a. (1985-90)               2.7t
Percentage of Women Workers (1992):
Agriculture                                     52t
Industry                                        45*
Registered Unemployed as Percentage of
Employed Population:
June 1992                                       9t
August 1992                                     18%
November 1992                                   27%
Pupils Completing Compulsory Basic
Education (1990)                                    90t
- Of Which Pupils Continuing on
to Secondary School:                      74t
- Of Which:      Academic Streams         40%
Vocational Streams      60t
Health Expenditures as Percent of GDP (1990)          4.0t
Life Expectancy at Birth (1990)                       72.8
Infant Mortality (per 1000 live births) (1990)        30.8 3
Death Rate (per 1000 inhabitants) (1989)              5.7
Total Fertility Rate 4 (1990)                         3.08
Usee an tbe Albania 1991 Statistical Yearbook.
t Men 15 to 59 year: omen 15 to 54 yeas.
Infant mortality varies fros 13.9 to 54.5 (per 1000 Uve births) asns different districts.
Total Fertility w # of births per oan.



CRC iUIA                                                                    I                                       I
-CLABOR                             ToMSARajET
Prizren
42?
42?
A DRIA TIC
SEA
LABOR MARKET
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                        lcv
REGIONAL LABOR OFFICES                                                                          MACEDONIA
*   REGIONAL LABOR OFFICES             Du
SELECTED TOWNS AND CMES
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                      To Bitola
411            MAIN ROADS                            >                   erng                    v                   4
--RAILROADS
AIRPORT                                                                   r
PORTS                                                            M
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2Y-  RIVERS                                                     Berto MO
ELEVATIONS IN METERS:                                                                         Kor     Bi       
1200
ITALY
4O~~~~~~~~~~~     62                                                                                        40' 
4I  l bhdo                         lat ,, S-
Soraf \ \; > \ b~T Ioannina
fo   19                              X    \      2      <  _                              21-     O
'0~~~~~~~~~9                                                                                                   21'



