Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2544 ALB
Project Agreement
(Labor Market Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
TRAINING, ENTERPRISE AND EMPLOYMENT FUND
Dated September 30, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2544 ALB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and TRAINING, ENTERPRISE AND EMPLOYMENT FUND (TEEF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Albania (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million 
nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,900,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
TEEF agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(B)
a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to TEEF in accordance with 
arrangements satisfactory to the Association; and
WHEREAS TEEF, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) TEEF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Part C of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and TEEF shall otherwise agree, TEEF shall carry out 
Part C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule  to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultant's services required for Part C of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. TEEF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part C of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. (a) TEEF shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part C of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b)
TEEF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part C of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by TEEF of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TEEF
Section 3.01. TEEF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. TEEF shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and 
financial practices.
Section 3.03. TEEF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) TEEF shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
TEEF shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
Page  3
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
TEEF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify TEEF of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For TEEF:
Ministria e Punes
Rruga "Konferenca e Pezes"
Tirana, Albania
Page  4
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of TEEF may be 
taken or executed by the General Director of TEEF or such other person or persons as 
the General Director of TEEF shall designate in writing, and TEEF shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ K. Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
TRAINING, ENTERPRISE AND EMPLOYMENT FUND
By /s/ G. Ruli
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
1.
TEEF shall carry out the Sub-projects under Part C of the Project through the 
Requesting Entities, and, to this end, without limitation upon its other obligations 
under this Agreement, TEEF shall:
(a)
adopt and maintain regulations, acceptable to the Association (the 
Regulations), defining its organization, management, purposes, functions, powers, 
scope of operations, and other matters relating to the operational policies of TEEF 
which may be necessary for the implementation of Decision No. 220 or of the Project, 
including eligibility criteria for Sub-projects acceptable to the Association;
(b)
make available to the Requesting Entities the Sub-grants under the terms 
and conditions referred to in the Regulations, obtaining prior approval of the 
Association for: (i) Sub-projects above $100,000; and (ii) Sub-projects below $100,000 
until TEEF's review and management mechanisms are satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)
exercise its rights in such a manner as to protect the interest of the 
Association and TEEF and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit.
2.
TEEF shall:
 
(a)
coordinate and monitor the overall execution of Part C of the Project and 
supervise the carrying out by the Requesting Entities of their obligations in 
accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
carry out a mid-term review not later than June 30, 1995 evaluating the 
progress of the Project. 
Page  5
