Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB3060 
Project Name 
Second Governance Reform and Growth Credit 
Region Africa 
Sector 
General public administration (40%); Sub-national government 
administration (20%); Mining (20%); General industry (20%) 
Project ID 
P102040 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Contact Person:  John Benjamin, Minister of Finance 
Tel: 232-22-228-616 
 
232-22-225-826 
Fax: 232-22-224-274 
Email:  minfin@sierratel.sl  
Date PID Prepared 
August 7, 2008 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
August 25, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 7, 2008 
The proposed Second Governance Reform and Growth Credit (GRGC-2) is a one-tranche development policy 
credit of US$10 million.  It is designed to help the Government implement its Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) 
in the context of a framework for multi-donor budget support (MDBS). 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Sierra Leone has made rapid progress on many fronts since the end of the war in January 2002 but more will be 
needed to raise per-capita incomes beyond peak pre-war levels and sharply reduce poverty.  Macroeconomic 
performance has been consistently strong, bringing rapid growth and steadily declining fiscal deficits.  The quality 
of public financial management has steadily improved, with all key recommendations of the 2002 CFAA having 
been implemented.  Public service delivery was quickly resumed in several sectors, most strongly in primary 
education.  Decentralization of public services through the re-establishment of local government became policy in 
February 2004 and the May 2004 elections for local governments were the first in over 30 years.  The first full 
PRSP was issued in February 2005.  These achievements ultimately helped Sierra Leone gain access to substantial 
debt relief in December 2006 via the HIPC Completion Point and Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative.   
 
2. 
Proposed objective(s) and description 
 
The challenge now facing the authorities is to deepen the reform program during a period of political 
consolidation following the 2007 elections, and to do so in the context of a difficult global economic environment 
of rapidly rising fuel and food prices.  This puts a premium on preserving the fiscal space available for poverty 
reduction and ensuring available resources are used as efficiently as possible.  Government will also need to help 
ensure that the private sector can continue to grow and develop in the current challenging environment. 
 
The proposed operation of US$10 million equivalent is the second in a series of development policy operations in 
support of Sierra Leone’s transition from post-conflict recovery to sustainable development.  It would help by 
consolidating and deepening the agenda set out in GRGG-1, by supporting measures to:  
·
preserve the fiscal space needed for poverty reduction; 
·
promote efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of public resources by strengthening the link 
between resource allocation and the objectives of growth and poverty reduction, pursuing procurement 
Page  2
reforms, strengthening the institutional set-up for public sector reform and strengthening the implementation 
of decentralization; and 
·
improve the investment climate and promote exports by simplifying and reducing the cost of business 
regulations, advancing financial sector reforms, supporting better delivery of key infrastructural services, and 
improving the fiscal regime and services for mining activities. 
The measures supported by the proposed GRGC-2 are expected to have a significant positive impact on poverty 
reduction.  By undertaking program actions aimed at preserving adequate fiscal space for poverty reducing 
programs, the government will be better positioned to deliver key public services even if revenues and grants fall 
short of targets.  The improvement in the investment climate supported by the proposed operation should help 
sustain the present high GDP growth rate and promote exports.  The strengthening of public financial 
management would enhance efficiency, transparency and accountability in public investments and service 
delivery.  Such measures would also increase the 
country’s absorption capacity for external resources. 
 
4.    Environmental aspects 
 
IDA has determined that the specific actions supported under the proposed GRGC-2 are expected to  have a 
benign or no significant negative direct effect on Sierra Leone’s environment and natural resources.  The potential 
environmental effects stem from measures to support the mining sector which could have an indirect, medium-
term impact if they lead to increased investments in the sector.  A Strategic Environment and Social Assessment 
(SESA) conducted in 2007 for mining in Sierra Leone found that the existing policies to address environmental 
and social priorities in the mining sector have the following weaknesses: the legal and regulatory framework for 
the mining sector is often lacking specificity; laws pertaining to the sector are diffused across statutes emanating 
from various ministries, leading to problems of consistency and poorly defined responsibilities; and 
implementation of laws and regulations is consistently weak.  Given the above weaknesses, the SESA 
recommended three areas of focus to promote the sustainable development of the sector: (i) strengthening 
environmental governance, (ii) enhancing benefits to communities, and (iii) effectively incorporating the artisanal 
mining sector in the reform.  The first area was addressed by the July 2008 adoption of legislation establishing a 
new Environmental Protection Agency.  A Bank-financed Mining Sector Technical Assistance project is currently 
being prepared to address, among other topics, some of the issues raised in the SESA.  In addition, the increasing 
provision of mining extension services that include guidance on how to make mining activities environmentally 
sustainable, especially for artisanal small-holders, would contribute to the sector’s environmental sustainability.  
Moreover, the implementation of EITI and adherence to a more transparent fiscal regime are expected to have 
positive spillovers in terms of addressing some of the broader governance issues raised and making more 
resources available to vulnerable mining communities. 
 
5.    Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT  
 
0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10 
Total
10 
 
6.    Contact point 
 
Contact:  Douglas Addison 
Title:  Senior Economist 
Tel:  202-473-1188 
Fax:  202-473-8136 
Email:  
Daddison@worldbank.org
