Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB4104 
Operation Name 
Second Government Reform & Growth Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration (40%); Sub-national government 
administration (20%); Mining (20%); General industry (20%)
 
Project ID 
P102040 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
Contact Person:  John Benjamin, Minister of Finance 
Tel: 232-22-228-616 
 
232-22-225-826 
Fax: 232-22-224-274 
Email:  minfin@sierratel.sl
 
Date PID Prepared 
September 17, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
August 25, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
October 7, 2008 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Sierra Leone’s civil war ended in January 2002, just over six years ago.  The United Nations 
Peacekeeping Mission completed its phased withdrawal of troops in December 2005, as agreed 
by the United Nations Security Council. The United Nations (UN), however, continues to 
support the country through its new Integrated Office.  Parliamentary and Presidential elections 
were held in August 2007, with a Presidential run-off election in September 2007.  The elections 
resulted in a transfer of power to the former opposition party.  The new leadership has placed 
strong emphasis on a campaign against corruption and more investment in physical infrastructure 
to buttress ongoing programs in health and education.  
Sierra Leone has made substantial progress in consolidating social and economic security for its 
people.  The country has now embarked on a transition from post-conflict recovery to broad-
based growth and poverty reduction.  Implementation of the first full PRS began with the 2005 
budget.  Local councils (LC) began implementing their first budgets in 2005 following the 
passage of the Local Government Act and the election of local governments in 2004 (the first 
such elections in over 30 years).  These developments have been complemented by a broad array 
of reforms aimed at the promotion of transparent and inclusive governance. 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed operation of US$10 million equivalent is the second in a series of development 
policy operations in support of Sierra Leone’s transition from post-conflict recovery to 
sustainable development.  It would help by consolidating and deepening the agenda set out in 
GRGG-1, by supporting measures to:  
Page  2
2
·
preserve the fiscal space needed for poverty reduction; 
·
promote efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of public resources by 
strengthening the link between resource allocation and the objectives of growth and 
poverty reduction, pursuing procurement reforms, strengthening the institutional set-up 
for public sector reform and strengthening the implementation of decentralization; and 
·
improve the investment climate and promote exports by simplifying and reducing the cost 
of business regulations, advancing financial sector reforms, supporting better delivery of 
key infrastructural services, and improving the fiscal regime and services for mining 
activities. 
The measures supported by the proposed GRGC-2 are expected to have a significant positive 
impact on poverty reduction.  By undertaking program actions aimed at preserving adequate 
fiscal space for poverty reducing programs, the government will be better positioned to deliver 
key public services even if revenues and grants fall short of targets.  The improvement in the 
investment climate supported by the proposed operation should help sustain the present high 
GDP growth rate and promote exports.  The strengthening of public financial management would 
enhance efficiency, transparency and accountability in public investments and service delivery.  
Such measures would also increase the country’s absorption capacity for external resources. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Sierra Leone has made rapid progress on many fronts since the end of the war in January 2002 
but more will be needed to raise per-capita incomes beyond peak pre-war levels and sharply 
reduce poverty.  Macroeconomic performance has been consistently strong, bringing rapid 
growth and steadily declining fiscal deficits. The quality of public financial management has 
steadily improved, with all key recommendations of the 2002 CFAA having been implemented.  
Public service delivery was quickly resumed in several sectors, most strongly in primary 
education.  Decentralization of public services through the re-establishment of local government 
became policy in February 2004 and the May 2004 elections for local governments were the first 
in over 30 years.   
 
The challenge now facing the authorities is to deepen the reform program during a period of 
political consolidation following the 2007 elections, and to do so in the context of a difficult 
global economic environment of rapidly rising fuel and food prices.  This puts a premium on 
preserving the fiscal space available for poverty reduction and ensuring available resources are 
used as efficiently as possible.  Government will also need to help ensure that the private sector 
can continue to grow and develop in the current challenging environment. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT  
 
0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10 
Total
10 
 
Page  3
3
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The administration of this operation will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and 
Economic Development.  To facilitate program implementation and the coordination of 
activities, the government has appointed an Inter-ministerial Steering Committee chaired by the 
Minister of Finance and Economic Development.  This Committee is composed of key Ministers 
and the Governor of the BSL.  The Steering Committee will be assisted by a Technical 
Committee comprising high level staff from various line ministries and the BSL.  The Technical 
Committee will be chaired by the Financial Secretary and will be responsible for coordinating 
the activities of all government agencies involved in program implementation.   
The Technical Committee will be responsible for monitoring the program and all outcome 
indicators.  The Technical Committee will provide monthly reports to the World Bank and other 
multi-donor budget support partners on implementation progress measured against established 
timetables and agreed performance indicators.  The overall reform effort will be reviewed by the 
government in close coordination with regular Bank missions to ensure continued 
implementation of the program within an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Several risks could jeopardize the expected outcomes and benefits of this operation, but 
measures are being taken to mitigate them.   
The degree of commitment by the authorities to sustain good macroeconomic performance could 
affect the implementation of reform policies and programs.  Failure to maintain macroeconomic 
stability and move the reform program forward would result in a shortfall in donor funding, on 
which the budget is heavily dependent.  This risk is mitigated by the ongoing intense Bank 
staff’s dialogue with the government, the IMF and the multi-donor budget support group on 
macroeconomic policies and the reform program.   
Implementing the PRS could be made more difficult in the event that revenues or grants fall 
significantly short of targets or if substantial new and unavoidable spending requirements arise.  
These risks are mitigated by the Government’s manifested commitment to adhere to the already 
established principle of protecting priority expenditures through reductions in less essential 
spending. 
Weak institutional capacity or corruption could hamper the implementation of the reforms 
supported by the proposed operation or the broader Poverty Reduction Strategy.  This risk was 
evident in late 2007 and early 2008 when capacity in the central ministries and local councils 
was temporarily reduced as a consequence of the natural replacement of various key officials as 
a
result of the political transition.  MOFED officials indicated they have largely resolved the 
problem through intensive dialogue and monitoring with the implementing ministries and local 
councils.  In addition, inadequate training in procurement procedures could slow the effective 
broadening of procurement reform, weak accounting skills in district governments could make it 
harder to account for the use of resources transferred to local councils, while weak capacity 
could slow the expansion of the cadastral system for mining.  These risks are mitigated by the 
Page  4
4
choice and design of the supported measures which are calibrated to existing capacity, the 
provision of extensive technical assistance through ongoing or planned projects (including IRCB 
support for training in procurement and accounting skills and the World Bank technical 
assistance project for the mining sector currently under preparation) and growing involvement of 
civil society in oversight activities.   
Risks from exogenous shocks and external factors cannot be ruled out. These include regional 
instability or a continued rapid rise in international commodity prices, especially food and fuel.  
Although there is little that the Government can do to mitigate the risks from sub-regional 
instability, conditions have improved considerably in recent years, especially due to the 
successful political transition in Liberia, and the recent peace agreement in Côte d'Ivoire. 
Moreover, continued international support for post-conflict reconstruction in Liberia and the 
peace process in Côte d'Ivoire would reduce somewhat the risk that political and economic 
instability would spill over across borders.  The Bank will continue to monitor the situation.  The 
food price shock is being mitigated through additional budget support to help protect the 
provision of basic services and through the expansion of safety net programs. Despite these 
efforts, there is a risk that social upheaval due to food price increases could distract the 
Government from its macroeconomic and reform agendas.  The Bank will continue to monitor 
the food price situation and assess the need for further support if needed. 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The measures supported by the proposed GRGC-2 are expected to have a significant positive 
direct impact on poverty reduction.  First, the improvement in the investment climate supported 
by the proposed operation should help sustain the present high GDP growth rate and promote 
exports.  Second, the strengthening of public financial management would enhance efficiency, 
transparency and accountability in public investments and service delivery. Such measures 
would also increase the country’s absorption capacity for external resources. Third, the support 
provided to the decentralization of public services should have the effect of reducing inequality.  
Indeed, the data from the 2003/04 household survey and pilot CWIQ show that the districts 
outside the Western Area, where the capital of Freetown is located, generally suffer higher levels 
of poverty and reduced levels of public services.  Data from the 2207 and 2008 Service Delivery 
Perception Surveys suggest there have been moderate gains in the quality of educational and 
health services in many districts.  Yet, there is clear room for improvement:  the 2008 Poverty 
Diagnostic finds that educational services remain pro-rich when adjusted for the quality of 
teachers while cost remains an obstacle to health care for many of the poor.  The Poverty 
Diagnostic also finds that the proposed increase in the electricity tariff could be pro-poor if it 
results in the release of resources that could be better targeted to the poor through other poverty 
reducing programs. There are two reasons for this.  First, the poor have very little access to 
electricity:  most live in rural areas outside Freetown.  Second, the current budgetary allocation 
for fuel for emergency power is the single largest item in the 2008 budget largely because the 
current tariff is insufficient to cover operating costs.  This denies resources to other, better 
targeted, poverty reducing programs.  The data also show that those households relying primarily 
on income from artisanal mining are among the poorest of the poor.  Thus, the support provided 
for decentralization (including the transfer of budgetary funds to local councils) and to the 
mining community, particularly cadastral and extension services, should help reduce inequality 
in addition to reducing conflicts over property rights.   
Page  5
5
8. Contact point 
 
Contact:  Douglas Addison 
Title:  Senior Economist 
Tel:  202-473-1188 
Fax:  202-473-8136 
Email:  
Daddison@worldbank.org
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
