Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4526 -TA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 4, 2008  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4526 -TA 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated November 4, 2008, entered into between UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in 
the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and 
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework. The Recipient and the 
Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to one hundred and one 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 101,800,000) (referred to 
variously as 
“Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
2
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration shall be that the event specified in Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 30 days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
 
ARTICLE V
—TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs 
P.O. Box 9111 
Dar es Salaam 
Page  4
3
United Republic of Tanzania 
 
Facsimile: 
(255) 222 11 0326  
6.03. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
 
 
 
By  /s/ Gray S. Mgonja 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By  /s/ John McIntire 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
Crop Board Legislation
:
The Recipient has, in accordance with paragraph 15 of the Letter 
of Development Policy, prepared draft amendments to six crop board legislation, and has 
finalized stakeholder consultations on implementation of crop board reforms and 
prepared the required strategic plans. 
2. 
TANESCO Financial Recovery Plan
:
The Recipient has, in accordance with paragraph 12 
of the Letter of Development Policy, made progress in the implementation of the 
TANESCO financial recovery plan, specifically in increasing revenues, and 
strengthening governance of the energy sector through improved regulation. 
3. Roads 
Bill
:
In accordance with paragraph 11 of the Letter of Development Policy, the 
Recipient has submitted to the Parliament a draft Roads Bill. 
4. 
Transport Sector Investment Plan
:
In accordance with paragraph 9 of the Letter of 
Development Policy, the Recipient has prioritized the implementation of the Transport 
Sector Investment Plan, and made adequate provision in the budget for maintenance and 
a
framework to facilitate public-private partnerships in the transport sector. 
5. Health 
Sector
:
In accordance with paragraph 39 of the Letter of Development Policy, the 
Recipient has carried out a health sector review, satisfactory to the Association.  
6. Education 
Sector
:
In accordance with paragraphs 40 and 41 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, the Recipient has carried out an education sector review, satisfactory to the 
Association. 
7. Water 
Sector
:
In accordance with paragraph 42 of the Letter of Development Policy, the 
Recipient has carried out a water sector review, satisfactory to the Association. 
8. Anti-Corruption 
Act
:
In accordance with paragraph 32 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, the Recipient has enacted the Anti-Corruption Act. 
9. Audit 
Bill
:
In accordance with paragraph 34
 
of the Letter of Development Policy, the 
Recipient has submitted to the Parliament the Audit Bill. 
10. 
Approved FY08 Budget
:
In accordance with paragraphs 22 and 23 of the Letter of 
Development Policy, the Recipient has approved its budget for FY 2007/08 in line with 
MKUKUTA policy objectives. 
Page  6
5
11. Expenditure 
Outturn
:
In accordance with paragraph 21 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, the Recipient has provided its expenditure outturn for FY 2006/07 consistent with 
its approved budget for said FY. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of 
the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche 
 
101,800,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
101,800,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used to finance 
Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the 
Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is November 30, 2009. 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each April 15 and October 15: 
 
commencing April 15, 2019 to and including October 
15, 2028. 
1% 
commencing April 15, 2029 to and including  October 
15, 2048. 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  8
7
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Audit Bill” means the bill titled “draft, the Public Audit Act, 2008”, now known as the 
Public Audit Act, (Act No. 11 of 2008), of the laws of the Recipient, pursuant to the 
enactment of the bill by the Recipient’s Parliament on June 11, 2008. 
 
2. 
“Anti-corruption Act” means The Prevention and Combating of Corruption Act, (Act 
No.11 of 2007), of the laws of the Recipient. 
 
3. 
“Crop Board Legislation” means the respective acts of parliament relating to 
management of various cash crops. 
 
4. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
Page  9
8
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f)  with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or other 
recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
5. 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 and 
ending on June 30 of the following year. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 
2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
7. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the letter dated September 12, 2008, from the 
Recipient to the Association, describing the Program (as hereinafter defined), and 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
8. 
“MKUKUTA” means the Recipient’s National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of 
Poverty dated June 2005. 
 
9. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
Letter of Development Policy. 
 
10. 
“Roads Bill” means a draft bill dated November 2006, and titled “Draft, the Roads Act, 
2006”, now known as the Roads Act, (Act No. 13 of 2007), of the laws of the Recipient, 
pursuant to the enactment of the bill by the Recipient’s Parliament on April 19, 2007. 
 
Page  10
9
11. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Transport Sector Investment Plan” means plan contained in the Recipient’s document 
titled, “10 Year Transport Sector Investment Programme Phase 1 (2007/08 – 2011/12)”, 
setting forth a strategy for encouragement of private sector investment in the transport 
sector, including a framework to facilitate public-private partnerships. 
 
13. 
“TANESCO” means Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited, a public company 
established and operating pursuant to the Companies Act (CAP 212 (R.E 2002) of the 
laws of the Recipient, and includes any successors thereto. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
Page  11
10 
 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
