Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3910 
Operation Name 
Tanzania Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (30%);General education 
sector (30%);Health (20%);General industry and trade sector 
(10%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P101229 
Borrower(s) 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
May 19, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 25, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
August 7, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
With an estimated per capita income of US$340 in 2006, Tanzania remains one of the poorest countries in 
the world. Since the mid 1990s, Tanzania has implemented a comprehensive reform program, including 
macro-economic stabilization, privatization, strengthening of the financial system, reduction of barriers to 
trade, strengthening of the tax system, decentralization, strengthening of public expenditure and financial 
management, and public service reforms.  These reforms 
–
supported by significant amounts of 
development assistance - have resulted in an acceleration of economic activity, with an average real GDP 
growth of over 6 percent between 2002 and 2006.  
 
The 2000/01 poverty survey estimated that around 36 percent to the population live below the national 
poverty line. The large majority of the poor - over 80 percent - live in rural areas. Robust rural growth is 
critical to ensure progress on poverty reduction.  At the current rates of rural income growth, however, it 
is not evident whether Tanzania is on a path of sustained poverty reduction. While GDP has shown 
relatively high growth, between 6 and 7.8 percent in the period since 2001, growth in private consumption 
has not matched this. Depending on the methodology used to estimate the various components of GDP, 
projections lead to divergent trends of income-poverty levels from 2001 to 2007.   
 
Overall, the two major uncertainties concerning the evolution of income-poverty rest on whether growth 
is public or private sector-driven, and on distributional effects, in particular between urban and rural 
areas. It points to the need to focus economic policy on strengthening the environment for private sector 
growth, in particular for small enterprises outside the urban centers, as well as on supporting the rural 
economy. Under the assumption of moderately stable income distribution, and a relatively strong 
performance of the private sector, income-poverty reduction could have been significant.  However, if 
growth has been mainly public sector driven and not broadly shared, income-poverty reduction is likely to 
have been moderate. A new set of poverty estimates will become available in the third quarter of 2008, 
and will provide the basis for an increased focus of the Government program on the critical determinants 
of poverty reduction.  
 
Clear signs of progress have been registered in recent years with respect to non-income poverty – notably 
in health and education.  Net primary school enrolment increased from 57 percent in 2000 to 95 percent in 
2005; life expectancy from 44 years in 1978 to 54 years for males and 56 years for females in 2002; infant 
mortality dropped from 100 to 68 per 1000 between 2000 and 2004, while child mortality dropped from 
141 to 112 per 1000 in 2004. The fraction of chronically undernourished or stunted children declined 
Page  2
from 44 percent in 1999 to 38 percent in 2004. The challenge there is to address some specific issues on 
which little progress has been made, such as maternal health, to review whether the poor have benefited 
equally from the general expansion of public services, and ensure that public expenditures can remain 
productive at the margin. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
The proposed operation would support the Government to pursue its policy objectives laid out in the 
MKUKUTA by providing financing for the execution of the 
government’s 2007/08 budget. It would also 
provide the incentives to continue to implement key economic, social and institutional reforms to 
strengthen the overall performance of the economy and contribute to poverty alleviation. Over the period 
2005-2010, it is expected that the reform program under the series of five annual PRSCs (PRSC-4 – 
PRSC-8) would help the government to sustain growth of around 6-8 percent annually, which is projected 
to result in a significant reduction in poverty.  It would also help the government in making progress 
toward reaching the MDGs, namely, increase school enrollment and literacy rates, reduce child and 
maternal mortality, increase access to safe water, and strengthen the sustainability of development efforts
.
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
In 2005, a new PRSP – the National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty (commonly referred 
to by its Swahili acronym MKUKUTA) – was approved.  It focuses on three clusters of outcomes, namely 
growth and reduction of income poverty, quality of life and social well being, and governance and 
accountability.  Compared to the first PRSP, it places greater emphasis on growth and the reduction of 
income poverty.  Key structural measures currently pursued by government to sustain and accelerate high 
rates of economic growth include the improvements in the business environment, improvement of 
infrastructure, and reforms of agricultural marketing with a focus on the role and functioning of crop 
boards. 
 
The rationale for Bank’s involvement rests on (a) its ability to provide significant resources to narrow the 
gap between the financing needs for the implementation of the MKUKUTA and available resources from 
Tanzania’s own sources and other donors, (b) its technical contributions to the policy dialogue, grounded 
in a combination of the Bank’s international experience with a long track record of work in Tanzania in 
the areas covered by the PRSC, and (c) the preference by the Tanzanian authorities to receive a significant 
part of IDA resources as general budget support with the objective of enhancing domestic ownership, 
capacity building through learning by doing, and accountability to domestic stakeholders by using the 
government’s budget process for the use of donor resources. 
 
The MKUKUTA implementation is considered broadly on track.  The GBS Annual Review (AR) 2007, 
held from October 29th to November 2nd 2007 in Dar es Salaam, concluded that overall progress was 
moderately satisfactory. The results since this second PRSC series was initiated in 2005 show varying 
degrees of improvements in almost all outcome areas. In particular, road construction has increased 
substantially, and enrollment in secondary and tertiary education has expanded significantly. Tanzania has 
gained around 20 ranks in the Cost of Doing Business scale, and has expanded energy supply capacity, 
and improved immunization coverage rates. The results framework shows also improvements in current 
budget execution and in the timeliness of the Auditor General report. 
 
Results monitoring of budget support is hampered by the unavailability or low frequency of some of the 
critical outcomes indicators, such as poverty estimates, health outcomes, or learning achievements. It is 
expected that starting with next PRSC, the availability of the poverty survey data in the third quarter of 
2008, and subsequently the results of the annual panel survey, as well as the demographic and health 
survey planned for 2009, will allow a much tighter follow up on the impact of the government policies 
and spending. 
Page  3
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
160 
 Total 
160 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
For most of the program areas, supervision and dialogue will be carried out on a continuous basis in the 
context of sector or thematic programs. A joint GBS review will be conducted annually for an overall 
assessment of progress made in each of the program areas. In addition, the achievement of PRSC targets 
will be assessed annually in the context of the MKUKUTA review that will document the progress made 
in the MKUKUTA implementation and analyze the outcomes of reforms. The reform program sets out 
clear quantitative and qualitative benchmarks for the implementation period of the MKUKUTA. The 
PRSC targets are fully consistent with the MKUKUTA. 
 
Key documents prepared by the authorities to follow up on MKUKUTA implementation include the 
MKUKUTA Annual Implementation Report and the Poverty and Human Development Report. Sector 
reviews are also key monitoring mechanisms for developments at the sector level, and the PSI reviews, as 
well as the monthly Bank of Tanzania economic reports are the key sources for the assessment of the 
macroeconomic situation. Progress in public expenditure management covering improvements in systems, 
enhanced allocative and operational efficiency in the use of inputs, and the consistency of the budget and 
budget execution with the MKUKUTA are tracked by the annual PEFARs. As mentioned above the 
underlying M&E system is under revision to strengthen information quality, policy relevance, and 
integration with the budget process. 
 
An additional dimension of the monitoring framework covers the government-donor relationship in 
monitoring progress on PRSC objectives, such as enhanced local ownership of the development process, 
participation by all stakeholders, and efficiency of aid delivery mechanisms. In particular, the PRSC team 
is working with the PRBS partners to enhance the capacity of, and information flows with, Parliament, 
civil society and the private sector. 
 
Supervision and preparation of subsequent credits will take place in close collaboration with other donors 
and be consistent with the MKUKUTA review mechanism.  
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
The proposed PRSC-6 is fully congruent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), presented to the 
Board of Executive Directors in March 2007.  The CAS consists of the Government Joint Assistance 
Strategy (JAST), the multi-donor Joint Program Document (JPD), and a World Bank Group-specific 
supplement, with details on the WBG strategy, progress under the previous CAS, and FY06-FY10 
programs and projects, IDA financing, and a WBG-specific results matrix. The JAST clearly identifies 
GBS as the preferred aid modality. GBS is believed to foster ownership, donor harmonization and 
alignment, and domestic accountability.  Development Partners (DP) have endorsed Government 
programs and strategies, increasingly using harmonized aid modalities and relying on Government 
processes and systems. Subject to continued progress on public and financial management, procurement, 
budget planning and implementation, and development outcomes, budget support is expected to continue 
to be an important instrument for Bank support over the CAS period FY07-10 
 
There are two closely interrelated and overlapping sets of risks for this operation. The first set includes 
general risks that may interfere with the successful implementation of the MKUKUTA, including the 
vulnerability of Tanzania’s economy to external shocks, political risks related to the situation in Zanzibar, 
Page  4
aid dependence, decentralization, and capacity constraints. The second set of risks could undermine the 
overall credibility of the GBS process 
–
and PRSC – as an effective mean to channel resources towards 
the achievement of the MKUKUTA objectives.  This set include:  corruption and weak domestic 
accountability, the reliance on the domestic budget process, the transition to sector review processes, and 
fiduciary risks. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
Poverty and Social Impact Assessments (PSIAs) have allowed the Government to analyze the 
distributional impact of policy reforms on the well-being of different stakeholder groups, with particular 
focus on the poor and vulnerable. A poverty and social assessment on crop board reform was carried out 
by the Bank in 2005 under PRSC-3 and is still relevant for these reforms. Another key area of PRCS 
where poverty impact is relevant is the tariff policy for electricity. Work done by the Bank has shown that 
the poor receive a negligible share of the implicit energy subsidy, but also advised that the lifeline tariff 
should be exempted from the proposed increase, through an appropriate combination of budget financing 
and cross-subsidization from higher brackets. A broad PSIA program is under way, with a focus on water, 
agriculture, land policy, and the in-country institutionalization of PSIA. In addition, most core diagnostic 
or sector work addresses these issues even though the final product is not presented as a PSIA. 
 
As the PRSC focuses primarily on institutional reforms, there are no direct significant effects on 
Tanzania’s environment, forests, and other natural resources.  In addition, the PRSC supports reforms of 
Tanzania’s legal and institutional framework for environmental management, environmental impact 
assessments, and strategic environmental assessments (SEAs).  In an effort to mainstream the 
environmental sustainability dimension into the PRSC process, the Bank has undertaken various analyses 
with the objective to identify linkages between key macro and structural reforms policies and the 
environment. This analysis identifies measures at both national and local government levels to reduce 
poverty and enhance environmental sustainability of policy reforms. The analysis concluded that 
environment and poverty are linked in three major ways: (a) poverty reduction programs should not 
damage the resource base and the environment of which poor depend for their livelihoods (b) improving 
environmental conditions can help to reduce poverty and promote sustainable pro-poor growth; and 
(c) mitigating measures may be necessary as part of policy dialogue. 
 
Working with the government and other development partners, the analysis identified a number strategic 
entry points for mainstreaming key issues of the poverty-environment nexus in Tanzania into PRSC 
process and ongoing policy reforms in general. This included 
inter alia
 further support for EA activities, a 
comprehensive environmental review of all taxes and levies associated with the agricultural sector, and 
increased attention to removing land tenure uncertainties. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Paolo B. Zacchia 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5355+3252 
Fax:  
Email: Pzacchia@worldbank.org 
Location: Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Page  5
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
