Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3375 
Operation Name 
Tanzania Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (30%); General education 
sector (30%); Health (20%); General industry and trade sector 
(10%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P101229 
Borrower(s) 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
October 15, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 11, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 23, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
With an estimated per capita income of US$340 in 2006, Tanzania remains one of the poorest countries in the 
world. Since the mid 1990s, Tanzania has implemented a comprehensive program of reform, including macro-
economic stabilization, privatization, strengthening of the financial system, reduction of barriers to trade, 
strengthening of the tax system, decentralization, strengthening of public expenditure and financial management, 
and public service reforms.  These reforms 
–
supported by significant amounts of development assistance - have 
resulted in an acceleration of economic activity, with an average real GDP growth of over 6 percent between 2002 
and 2006. Clear signs of progress have been registered in recent years with respect to non-income poverty – 
notably in health and education.  Net primary school enrolment increased from 57 percent in 2000 to 95 percent in 
2005; life expectancy from 44 years in 1978 to 54 years for males and 56 years for females in 2002; infant 
mortality dropped from 100 to 68 per 1000 between 2000 and 2004, while child mortality dropped from 141 to 
112 per 1000 in 2004. The fraction of chronically undernourished or stunted children declined from 44 percent in 
1999 to 38 percent in 2004. Trends of income-poverty remain unclear, though, as different sets of available data 
and different assumptions on income distribution result in contrasting projections for poverty reduction.   
 
In 2005, a new PRSP – the National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty (commonly referred to by its 
Swahili acronym MKUKUTA) – was approved.  It focuses on three clusters of outcomes, namely growth and 
reduction of income poverty, quality of life and social well being, and governance and accountability.  Compared 
to the first PRSP, it places greater emphasis on growth and the reduction of income poverty.  Key structural 
measures currently pursued by government to sustain and accelerate high rates of economic growth include the 
improvements in the business environment, improvement of infrastructure, and reforms of agricultural marketing 
with a focus on the role and functioning of crop boards. 
 
The rationale for Bank’s involvement rests on (a) its ability to provide significant resources to narrow the gap 
between the financing needs for the implementation of the MKUKUTA and available resources from Tanzania’s 
own sources and other donors, (b) its technical contributions to the policy dialogue, grounded in a combination of 
the Bank’s international experience with a long track record of work in Tanzania in the areas covered by the 
PRSC, and (c) the preference by the Tanzanian authorities to receive a significant part of IDA resources as 
general budget support with the objective of enhancing domestic ownership, capacity building through learning 
by doing, and accountability to domestic stakeholders by using the government’s budget process for the use of 
donor resources. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
Page  2
The proposed operation would support the Government to pursue its policy objectives laid out in the MKUKUTA 
by providing financing for the execution of the 
government’s 2007/08 budget. It would also provide the incentives 
to continue to implement key economic, social and institutional reforms to strengthen the overall performance of 
the economy and contribute to poverty alleviation. Over the period 2005-2010, it is expected that the reform 
program under the series of five annual PRSCs (PRSC-4 – PRSC-8) would help the government to sustain growth 
of around 6-8 percent annually, which is projected to result in a significant reduction in poverty.  It would also 
help the government in making progress toward reaching the MDGs, namely, increase school enrollment and 
literacy rates, reduce child and maternal mortality, increase access to safe water, and strengthen the sustainability 
of development efforts
.
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed poverty reduction support operation (PRSC 6) is the third operation of a series of 5 PRSCs to 
support the Government’s second Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy. It covers six focus areas: the three 
clusters of the MKUKUTA - i.e. growth and the reduction of income poverty, improvements of quality of life and 
social well being, and governance and accountability -, macroeconomic stability, resource allocation and budget 
consistency, and public financial management.  Starting this operation, the proposed program will focus on the 
consolidation of the reforms supported under the first two series, notably in the areas of infrastructure and 
governance, shifting focus from supporting new legal and regulatory frameworks to supporting policy 
implementation.  
 
The Bank’s PRSC support to Tanzania is provided within a framework for general budget support (GBS), 
comprising a Performance Assessment Framework (PAF), a Partnership Framework Memorandum (PFM) for 
GBS for the implementation of MKUKUTA, and a streamlined review process, in common with 13 other 
development partners (DPs) that provide GBS. The framework is designed to support domestic accountability, 
further reduce transaction costs (especially for the government) and encourage the further development and use of 
Tanzania’s own systems - rather than setting up and using parallel donor systems. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
As the PRSC focuses primarily on institutional reforms, there are no direct significant effects on Tanzania’s 
environment, forests, and other natural resources.  In addition, the PRSC supports reforms of Tanzania’s legal and 
institutional framework for environmental management, environmental impact assessments, and strategic 
environmental assessments (SEAs).   In an effort to mainstream the environmental sustainability dimension into 
the PRSC process, the Bank has undertaken various analyses with the objective to identify linkages between key 
macro and structural reforms policies and the environment. This analysis identifies measures at both national and 
local government levels to reduce poverty and enhance environmental sustainability of policy reforms. The 
analysis concluded that environment and poverty are linked in three major ways: (a) poverty reduction programs 
should not damage the resource base and the environment of which poor depend for their livelihoods (b) 
improving environmental conditions can help to reduce poverty and promote sustainable pro-poor growth; and 
(c) mitigating measures may be necessary as part of policy dialogue. 
 
Working with the government and other development partners, the analysis identified a number strategic entry 
points for mainstreaming key issues of the poverty-environment nexus in Tanzania into PRSC process and 
ongoing policy reforms in general. This included 
inter alia
 further support for EA activities, a comprehensive 
environmental review of all taxes and levies associated with the agricultural sector, and increased attention to 
removing land tenure uncertainties. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
200 
Page  3
Total 200 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Paolo B. Zacchia 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5355+3252 
Fax:  
Email: Pzacchia@worldbank.org 
Location: Dar es Salam, Tanzania
 
