Report No. PIC2715
Project Name                 Burkina Faso-Second National Agricultural(@+)
Services Development Project (NASDP II)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       BFPA296
Borrower                         Republic of Burkina Faso
Implementing Agency for          Ministere des Enseignements Secondaire,
the Research Component           Superieur et de la Recherche Scientifique
(MESSRS) -B.P. 7130 -Ouagadougou 03
Burkina Faso
Tel 226 33 57 08 - Fax 31 09 68
Implementing Agency for          Ministere de l'Agriculture et des
the other components             Ressources Animales (MARA)
Secretariat General - B.P. 7010
- Ouagadougou 03 -Burkina Faso
Tel 226 30 85 14 - Fax 31 08 70
Date this PID prepared           March 10, 1997
Appraisal date                   June 10, 1996
Post-appraisal date              February 4, 1997
Board Approval                   June 1997
1. Country/Sector Background. Burkina Faso is a landlocked country
with a population of about 10 million. About 80 percent of the
people live in the rural areas. Its sahelo-soudanian climate is
characterized by low and irregular rainfalls. Soil, water and
biomass resources are limited and fragile. Agricultural resource
degradation is accelerating because of over-exploitation, high
population pressure and the continued use of traditional production
systems which are maladapted to current conditions. With a gross
national product of US$300 per capita in 1994, Burkina Faso ranks
among the world's poorest countries.
2. To create an environment that would improve agricultural
production and rural living standards, mainly to benefit the
smallholders, the Government initiated sectoral reforms which
include: (a) the liberalization of internal trade and external
trade of agricultural commodities and food; (b) the restructuring,
privatization, or liquidation of agricultural parastatals; and (c)
the reorganization of the cotton and sugar sub-sectors. In
addition, a reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Animal Resources is under review. It aims at limiting the
Ministry's interventions to sectoral policies, land reform and
provision of basic public agricultural services, including the
generation and dissemination of improved agricultural technology.
3. Project Objectives. The proposed four-year project constitutes
the second phase of both the National Agricultural Research Program



and the National Agricultural Services Program, which are currently
under implementation. The project would aim at: (a) increasing
agricultural productivity and farmers' revenues; (b) improving
natural resource management and promoting sustainable production
systems; and (c) promoting and empowering, on a pilot basis,
efficient and representative farmers' organizations.
4. Project Description. The project would include five
components, namely research, agricultural extension, animal health,
pilot programs for promotion of farmers' organizations and small
rural infrastructures, and support to the restructuring of public
agricultural services. The project would expand its approach to
research and extension by fostering close linkages between them and
also with farmer organizations.
5. Research: On-going priority research programs would continue to
be supported by the project. In line with the national Strategic
Plan, the project would pay greater attention to promising new
fields of research such as vegetable and food production, forestry,
post-harvest technology and appropriate mechanization. The project
would contribute to improve: (a) research relevance from farmers'
viewpoint, quality and accountability for results; and (b)
logistical and financial management of research institutes. The
project would build additional research facilities, provide
vehicles, motorcycles and technical equipment for researchers, and
pay for operating and training costs.
6. Agricultural extension (rainfed and irrigated crops, livestock
husbandry, natural resource management): the project would help
consolidate the national system of extension by improving: (a) the
capacity for regional and local diagnoses, along with the linkages
between research and extension; (b) the presence of extension staff
in the field, especially female staff; (c) the monitoring and
evaluation system; (d) the accounting and budgetary control systems
of local implementing bodies; and (e) the practice of staff annual
performance review. To improve polyvalence, all front-line
extension agents specialized in crop productions would be trained
in animal husbandry. The project would provide vehicles and
technical equipment to the staff of MARA involved in Agricultural
Services as well pay for operating and training costs.
7. Animal health: the project would help: (a) finalize the
regulatory framework and definition of the private and public
roles, (b) privatize the veterinary profession and the distribution
of veterinary pharmaceuticals, and (c) support remaining public
sector tasks including sanitary control, disease surveillance and
food inspection. This component would include studies and
consultations, training, specific credit for installation of
private veterinarians and financing of regional diagnostic
laboratory facilities.
8. Pilot programs: The project would support two pilot operations:
(a) farmer organizations component (at regional and local levels),
which should take part in adaptive research and improve the
capacity of these organizations to transfer technologies and know-
- 2 -



how to their members, and, secondly, strengthen their capacity to
provide services to farmers ; and (b) a program for small rural
infrastructures to study the processes and feasibility of financing
village-level operations intended for communal usage. The project
would provide consultancies, training, vehicles, technical and
office equipment, as well as regional/international study travel
for board members and selected staff from farmer organizations.
Under the second pilot program, also small-scale civil works would
be financed through a community participation method.
9. Restructuring of agricultural services: in line with the
Agriculture SECAL II--already appraised--the project would: (a)
carry out relevant supporting measures, including possibly setting
up a temporary unit in charge of restructuring; (b) carry out
detailed studies for the reorganization of MARA and CRPAs; and (c)
provide training for both redundant and remaining staff. The
project would provide consultancies, training, logistic and
operating costs.
10. Project Financing. The estimated total project cost is US$47
million, of which IDA would contribute to a maximum of US$41
million. Detailed costs, funding pattern, financial participation
by Government and beneficiaries would be determined at
negotiations.
11. Project Implementation. The project would include two
implementing agencies. The research component would be implemented
by the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique
(CNRST) under MESSRS, through two of the four new research
institutes (the existing six institutes are to be merged into
four). The other components (including support measures to
restructuring of agricultural services and the pilot operations)
would be implemented by MARA. Close coordination among components
would be achieved through appropriate mechanisms to be agreed upon
at negotiations. Some of the project activities would be contracted
to local consulting firms or/and NGOs, with relevant back-stopping
by experienced international consultants.
12. Project Sustainability. In the long run, public funding will
likely continue to be necessary for the agricultural research and
extension activities in Burkina Faso because of the poverty of the
producers. However, progressive subcontracting/transfer of some
activities and services to farmer organizations and the private
sector would improve efficiency, facilitate cost recovery and
promote the financial sustainability of research and agricultural
services.
13. Environmental Aspects. The generation and dissemination of
natural resources conservation and management techniques would be
expanded and intensified through the project, including soil
conservation, improvement of fertility and water management.
Linkages with the National Land Management Program (PNGT) would be
further developed and the extension services would continue and
consolidate the initial actions carried out by the PNGT mobile
teams. The project has been classified under category B as it is
-3 -



unlikely to have any negative environmental impact.
14. Program Objective and Poverty Categories. The program would
emphasize household food security, nutrition and poverty reduction
among small farmers, many of whom are female, through increased
productivity, crop diversification and post-harvest activities. The
promotion of farmer organizations would help small farmers,
including women, to strengthen their bargaining power and capacity
to behave like stakeholders. The appropriate Targeted Intervention
Categories are estimated to be "Raising Productivity" and "Poverty
Alleviation."
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 18, 1997.
- 4 -



ANNEX
ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS
1.      Arable agriculture in environments such as that of Burkina
Faso inevitably introduces the risk of environmental degradation
because of loss of organic matter, drawing and leaching of
nutrients and increasing of erosion. Also, because the use of
tradional methods does not allow intensification of cultivation
required to satisfy the food demands of an increasing population,
expansion of the cultivated land is necessary, magnifying that
risk. Traditional systems are based on shifting cultivation which
relies on prolonged periods under bush fallow to regain the
fertility destroyed by a relatively brief period of cultivation.
The increased pressure on good lands reduces the period of fallow
and, thus, undercuts the natural processes which permit soil
restoration and fertility generation. It also reduces the
proportion of the total land area which is protected by perennial
vegetative cover and, thus increases erosion. Larger herds owned by
pastoralists have similar if less dramatic effects, largely because
of the annual burning which reduces tree cover to scattered fire
resistant species and destroys the dry-grass mulch before the onset
of the rains, but also because of the direct effect of compacting
and of tracks in encouraging water run-off and erosion.
2.      Soil organic matter is very important in maintaining soil
texture and, thus the capture of rainfall and prevention of
erosion, and in preventing the loss of nutrients by leaching;
arable cultivation in the tropics destroys the soil organic matter
and traditional pastoralism prevents its accumulation. Both systems
encourage the loss of mineral nutrients (by leaching and export)
which, in turn, leads to soil acidification which, in its turn,
leads to aluminum toxicity; each progressively reduces productivity
and limits the crops and forages that can be grown; and reduced
productivity forces even further expansion of cultivated areas. The
precise effects are defined by climate, soil and topography. For
example, highly seasonal and variable rainfall distribution will
magnify the importance of soil moisture conservation and erosion
control. In the areas in the south-western part of the country, the
more substantial rainfall will cause a degree of leaching of
nutrients but a more permanent vegetative cover compared to the
other parts of the country is likely to counter some of the risk of
erosion.
3.      Increasing productivity per unit area provides an alternative
which can satisfy the demands of the increasing population without
exacerbating these adverse environmental effects. Yield increases
of 15 percent to 50 percent that can be attained using technology
that is already available. Most of these technological packages
rely on environment neutral components (varieties better adapted to
the environment, and/or varieties resistant to pests and diseases,
biological control of pests, better crop geometry, etc.). Some
include the use of fertilizer and/or pesticide, but at levels that
are most unlikely to affect the environment. Currently, Burkina
Faso uses an average of only 7.5 kg of fertilizer per ha of arable
land, compared to double that figure for the whole of Africa, 97 Kg
- 5 -



for the world as a whole, and 660 Kg for the Netherlands. The
current use of pesticides (at about 1,200 tons of liquid pesticides
and 44 tons of powder pesticides per annum for the whole country)
is negligible and even then concentrated on one fourth of the
country. The project will promote technologies which minimize the
requirement for pesticides, notably the extension of messages such
as pest scouting and threshold interventions instead of the
systematic, calendar-bound sprayings, the use of varieties and
breeds resistant to pests and diseases, and the use of integrated
pest management techniques for the control of weeds as well as of
pests and diseases.
4.      In addition, many technological packages will reduce or even
prevent the adverse environmental effects inherent in replacing
natural forest by agriculture. These include: the use of "living
hedges" (of grasses, especially Vetiver grass or Vetiver-type of
grasses, and trees) or stone walls as contour bounds; the use of
one of a variety of agro-forestry techniques to re-cycle nutrients
and control erosion (as part of "living hedges" and as wind-
breaks); the maintenance of soil cover in the form of a mulch
(living and dead mulches, the latter in the form of crop residues,
agro-forestry pruning, dessicated range grasses, etc.); and one of
the many possible mixed-cropping combinations. Trees are
interplanted with an understory of crops such as yams, cassava;
maize, intermixed with low-growing crops such as groundnut and
cowpea which are planted in small clearings. Such mixed cropping
patterns largely reduce the exposure of the soil to rains, and
maximize the biological re-cycling of nutrients. In addition,
mechanization which depends on the relatively little-damaging
animal traction, allows the more timely planting of crops and, thus
extended protection of the soil surface.
5.      The integration of livestock husbandry with cropping ensures
that nutrients are recycled whilst maximizing the economic return
of the whole farm enterprise; it thus provides a strong incentive
for farmers to continue this sound agronomic practice. There is one
draw-back however: organic materials that may have been used to
protect the soil surface are consumed as fodder, so that additional
efforts are required to control erosion. One particularly valuable
technology is the use of agro-forestry techniques (contour hedges
or alley-cropping) to provide dry-season fodder and re-cycle
deeply-leached nutrients prior to the onset of the next wet season.
6.      The promotion of agro-forestry techniques will also provide
environmental protection for lands outside the normal cropping
area: the trees provide fuel wood which would otherwise be obtained
from forests which are protecting other, often steeper lands, and
which are assisting with the conservation of rainfall.
7.      As the project is categorized as B in the environmental
system of the World Bank, a "targeted environmental analysis" is
needed before project effectiveness. The analysis would help the
project management to:
(a)     identify the training requirements for proper environmental
- 6 -



monitoring inside the project;
(b)     identify the environemental parameters to be monitored
(natural resources, technology etc.); and
(c)     identify cross-sectoral opportunities like urban agriculture
and also recycling of organic wastes for peri-urban agriculture.
-7 -



