                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32352

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-29740)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$41.3 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                 GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO

                                                 FOR A

         SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              June 30, 2005




Rural Development 4
Country Department 15
Africa Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective )

                           Currency Unit = CFAF
                              CFAF 1.00 = US$ 0.00198
                                   US$ 1 = 505 CFAF

                                 FISCAL YEAR

                          World Bank: July 1 to June 30

             Government of Burkina Faso: January 1-December 31




                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGRI-RA:    Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources (Ministère de l'Agriculture et des
            Ressources Animales)
ASAC II     Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
CAMES       African and Malagasy Council for Higher Education
CC-PASA     Coordination Unit for the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (Cellule de
            Coordination du Programme d'Ajustement Sectoriel Agricole)
CNRST       National Center for Scientific and Technological Research (Centre National de la
            Recherche Scientifique et Technologique)
CPCE/OP     Framework for Concertation and Exchange of Professional Organizations (Cadre
            de Concertation et d'Echanges des Organisations Professionnelles)
CRPA        Regional Center for Agro-Pastoral Promotion (Centre Régional de Promotion
            Agro-Pastorale)
DRARA       Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Animal Resources (Direction Régionale
            de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales)
DSA         Directorate of Animal Health (Direction de la Santé Animale)
DVA         Directorate of Agricultural Extension (Direction de la Vulgarisation Agricole)
FFA         Framework for action
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
INERA       Agricultural Research Institute (Institut d'Etudes et de Recherches Agricoles)
IRSAT       Research Institute for Applied Science and Technology (Institut de Recherche en
            Sciences Appliquées et de Technologie)
LNE         National Livestock Laboratory (Laboratoire National de l'Elevage)
LPDA        Letter of Agricultural Development Policy (Lettre de Politique de Développement
            Agricole)
MESSRS      Ministère des Enseignements Secondaire et Supérieur et de la Recherche

                Scientifique(Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education and Scientific Research)
NASDP II        Second National Agricultural Services Development Project (Projet National de
                Développement des Services Agricoles)
NGO             Non Governmental Organization (Organization non Gouvernementale)
OP              Farmer Organization (Organisation des Producteurs)
ASA             Agriculture Sector Adjustment Program (Programme d'Ajustement du Secteur
                Agricole)
PNGT            National Environmental Management Program (Programme National de Gestion
                des Terroirs)
PNRA            National Research Project (Projet de la Recherche Nationale Agricole)
PRSAP           Agricultural Services Project (Projet de Renforcement des Services d'Appui aux
                Producteurs)
PRSA            National Agricultural Research Strategy (Plan Stratégique de la Recherche
                Agricole)
SOFITEX         Cotton Fibers and Textiles Company (Sociétés des Fibres et des Textiles)
SPAAR           Special Program for African Agricultural Research (Programme Spéciales pour
                la Recherche Agricole en Afrique)
SP/CPSA         Permanent Secretariat for Agricultural Sector Policy Coordination (Secretariat
                Permanent de Coordination des Politiques Sectorielles Agricoles)
STC             Scientific and Technical Commission (Commission Scientifique et Technique)
TS              Specialized Technician (Technicien Spécialisé)



                             Vice President:    Gobind T. Nakani
                            Country Director    A. David Craig
                            Sector Manager      Mary A. Barton-Dock
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Nicaise B. Ehoue

                                       BURKINA FASO
                 Second National Agricultural Services Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Borrower 's Contribution                                                24
Annex 9. Map IBRD 28674                                                          40
Annex 10. Map IBRD 33379                                                         41

Project ID: P000296                                                  Project Name: Second National Agricultural Services
                                                                     Development Project
Team Leader: Olivier Durand                                          TL Unit: AFTS4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second National Agricultural Services                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-29740
                            Development Project
   Country/Department: BURKINA FASO                                                       Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (83%); Irrigation and drainage
                            (5%); Animal production (5%); Other social services (4%); Central
                            government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Other rural development (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                            Rural policies and institutions (P); Other environment and natural
                            resources management (P); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/25/1995                                     Effective: 05/14/1998                07/17/1998
     Appraisal: 05/14/1996                                         MTR: 11/14/1999                  06/11/2001
      Approval: 07/01/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO/MINISTRIES OF AGRIC.; ANIMAL
                                           RESOURCES AND HIGHER EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Serge Michailof
Sector Manager:                 Mary A. Barton-Dock                            Jean-Paul Chausse
Team Leader at ICR:             Olivier Durand                                 Turto Turtiainen
ICR Primary Author:             Nicaise Ehoue


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
The project quality at entry has not been reviewed by QAG.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
         The project objective is summarized in paragraph 4.02 of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) as
follows: "The overall project objective is to reduce poverty by increasing small farmers'productivity
through the provision of essential agricultural services and strengthening of the link between agricultural
research, farmers organizations and extension services. In particular, the project aims at: (a) supporting
long-term agricultural production by maintaining an agricultural research system and reorganizing it to
better meet farmers needs; (b) increasing agricultural and livestock productivity and farmers revenues
through improved agricultural extension services; (c) improving natural resource management and
promoting sustainable production systems; (d) helping the Government implement an improved animal
health system, largely based on private veterinary services; and (e) promoting and empowering, on a pilot
basis, representative farmers organizations.

         The project was designed to continue the financial support started by the Bank Group under the
National Agricultural Research Project and the National Agricultural Extension Project. In the field of
research, the Bank was committed to support the Framework for Action (FFA) of the Special Program for
African Agricultural Research (SPAAR). At the 15th SPAAR conference held in March 1995, Burkina
Faso was identified as part of the next round of FFA implementation. The project was consistent with the
national strategy for agricultural development and the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Burkina.
Approved in July 1996 the CAS stressed the need for prudent management of natural resources and
explicitly recognized the importance of the ongoing research, agricultural services and natural resources
management programs, and included Agricultural Services II in the lending program. The CAS also
emphasized that the incidence of poverty, being especially high in the rural sector, could only be reduced
through efforts to create sustained growth in the agricultural sector.

         The project objective and timing complemented the Government's structural and             financial
restructuring program to address the financial crisis affecting the public sector. The project had a certain
degree of complexity as it covered the entire country and had multiple components including research,
policy reforms, extension, animal health and pastoralist promotion of farmers organizations (pilot
programs). Complexity resulted also from the fact that the project adopted a demand-driven approach,
which to some extent was new to the agencies involved in project implementation.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The broad project development objective remained unchanged all along project implementation. About a
year after project effectiveness a logical framework exercise was carried out to link outcomes/outputs with
performance indicators.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was organized into two major areas: agricultural policy reform and supportive investments,
with five components.

l Agricultural research: in line with the national Agricultural Research Strategic Plan, it would
    contribute to focus attention to new fields of research, such as vegetable and food production, forestry,
    post-harvest technology and appropriate mechanization;

l Agricultural extension (rain-fed and irrigated crops, livestock, natural resources management): the
    project would help consolidate and expand the national system of extension and adaptive research and
    incorporate gender-specific and literacy programs to support the effectiveness of the extension



                                                     - 2 -

    program;

l Animal health and pastoralist promotion: the project would help promote privatization of the animal
    health services, improve the remaining core public sector services; provide specialized services to
    semi-intensive peri-urban producers (poultry and pork); and contribute to enhance development and
    disseminate information to transhumant pastoral producers;

l Pilot programs -(a) promotion of farmers' organizations: the project would help national, regional and
    local farmers' organizations gain professional and financial strength so that they could provide services
    to smallholders and take part in adaptive research, and potentially become able to transfer technologies
    and know-how to their members, and (b): a program for small rural infrastructures to study the
    processes and feasibility of financing village-level operations intended for communal usages; and

l Restructuring of agricultural services: in line with the Agricultural SECAL appraised in June 1996,
    the project would: (i) carry-out the relevant supporting measures, possibly setting-up a temporary unit
    in charge of restructuring; (ii) carry-out detailed studies for the reorganization of AGRI-RA; and (iii)
    provide training for both redundant and remaining staff.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project's components were not formally revised or changed. Unplanned activities were added to some
components during project implementation, notably support to the integration of Burkinabés who were
repatriated from Côte d'Ivoire because of the political situation as well as investments made to promote
horticultural exports from Bobo Dioulasso and Ouagadougou. This was done through two credit
amendments at the request of the Government and granted by the Bank.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
No quality at entry review was carried out by QAG. While the overall project purpose as stated in the
SAR was relevant and had a direct link to the Government's structural reform agenda, its rural sector
strategy and the country assistance strategy, the project's objectives in the SAR were ambitious and did not
take into account the modest managerial and financial resource base of the country. The strategy and
mechanism to achieve the project objective were not clearly indicated in the absence of a logical framework
and key performance indicators during the project design. The links between the project objective to
alleviate poverty and the actions to be implemented to achieve accelerated growth based on competitiveness
were not evident and clearly specified. Weaknesses in project design consisted of: (a) opting for the
"training and visit" system while it was already openly criticized for its top-down approach; (b)
de-emphasizing the development of a financially sustainable mechanism for service delivery; (c) relying on
an unrealistic assessment of Government counterpart funds availability; and (d) inadequately assessing
coordination capacity required to implement such a complex project involving multiple Government
institutions and stakeholders including professional organizations. Peer reviewers had identified the lack of
innovativeness of project design as an issue. However, this was not addressed by neither the project design
team nor by the team who took over for project implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of project objective has been rated unsatisfactory by the ICR team for the mixed
results in terms of specific project objective achievements. Two main components (extension and research)
to which 83% of Credit funds were devoted, are rated respectively unsatisfactory and moderately
satisfactory (ref. paragraph 4.2). Moreover, it was difficult for the ICR team to assess the project's



                                                     - 3 -

contribution to poverty reduction due to a week monitoring and evaluation system.

The project has made a significant contribution in promoting and empowering farmers and their
organizations. In this area, a shift from a top-down to a demand-driven approach is emerging and could be
promising for the rural development of Burkina.            As a result 245 sub-projects were designed and
implemented in 9 provinces during a pilot phase with the participation of the Concerted Framework and
exchange for professional organizations (Cadre Permanent de Concertation et d'echange des organizations
paysannes-CPCE/OP). Because of its successful outcomes, the pilot project was scaled up in all 45
provinces, and 2,700 micro-projects using matching grant mechanisms were implemented by the
professional associations, valued at more than CFAF 4 billion.

In the research area, the objective of strengthening the link between research-extension and farmers was
partially achieved due to the reinforcement of research institutions through human resources development
(all Burkina Faso's researchers obtained the African and Malagasy Council for Higher Education's
(CAMES) certification -40 out of 40 planned) and the provision/rehabilitation of infrastructure and
equipment (ref. paragraph 4.2). The restructuring of the Ministry of Agricultural started effectively with
the liquidation of the Regional Centers for Agro-Pastoral Promotion (CPRA). For animal health and
pastoralist promotion, the objective was also partially achieved. Support to sector development was
successful through the provision of needed infrastructure and capacity building (ref. paragraph 4.2).

However, based on available data the project did not succeed in improving farm productivity. In addition, a
low extension coverage (35% of family farms) indicates that the substantive increase of production in
Burkina during the project time span was more due to area expansion. This low performance of extension
service could be attributed to: (i) the failure to implement an integrated extension service resulting from the
sudden decision of Government to split the Ministry of Agriculture into two ministerial departments just
before project implementation, creating institutional problems; (ii) the slow response of extension agents to
adopt a demand-driven approach as a best alternative to the top-down "training & visit"; and (iii) the
reduction of extension agents. In the area of animal health, the private sector was insufficiently prepared to
bridge the gap due to the retrenchment of the public sector. At project closing, 28 out of 60 private
veterinarians held sanitary mandates ("mandats sanitaires"). On the institutional restructuring front, the role
assigned to CNRST, the apex body, remained fuzzy and the restructuring of rural development ministries
remained an unfinished agenda. While the restoration of 7,264 hectares of soil and the use of 26,000
compost pits are steps forward in the area of natural resources management, the practices have not been
sufficiently disseminated to achieve a sustainable production system.

In terms of overall objective achievement of poverty reduction, the lack of baseline studies and a poorly
performing monitoring and evaluation system have made it difficult at best to separate the contribution of
the project from that of other donor funded activities and other factors, such as weather and prices.
National statistical data show that during project implementation, poverty decreased substantially in
Burkina from an estimated 54.6 percent of the population in 1998 to 46.4 percent in 2003. The reduction of
poverty was more pronounced in rural areas where the incidence fell from 61.1 percent in 1998 to 52.4
percent in 2003. GDP growth over this period was driven by a primary sector growth of almost 8 percent
per year, with agricultural growth of about 10.5 percent. As the project reached about one-third of farm
families, it is likely that it has contributed to this achievement, but it is difficult to estimate its overall
contribution in the absence of reliable data.


4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                       - 4 -

Agricultural research. (US $17.10 million in the SAR, US$17.20 million actual). The component is
rated moderately satisfactory. The project has contributed to institutional rehabilitation through: (i)
strengthening staff capacity (100% success at CAMES exam); (ii) the establishment of a programming
commission which helped improve research programs and emphasized the link between objective
achievement, outputs and means; (iii) the improvement of central and regional laboratories; (iv) an effective
partnership between the national agricultural research institute (INERA) and local, regional and
international research institutes (50 collaborative agreements were signed in 2000) and the provision of
adequate infrastructure and equipment which has contributed to revitalize the research institution; and (iv)
INERA and IRSAT (Research Institute for Applied Science and Technology) are now guided by
operational and administrative guidelines, and legal texts, which facilitate their technical, scientific and
administrative functioning. As a result of these achievements, the relationship between research and
producers has been strengthened, and research is now more responsive to producers' needs. Achievement
could have been more important if the following issues had been addressed: (i) the implementation of the
Research Orientation Law; (ii) the cumbersome public procurement procedures which seriously delayed
implementation; (iii) the lack of rigorous financial and accounting management which led to suspension of
disbursements for 12 months until the situation had been resolved; (iv) the presence of various governance
bodies set up by CNRST with no clear mandates, which led to some confusion and redundancy; (iv)
inadequate research/technician ratio; and (v) insufficient use of the monitoring and evaluation system to
guide the development of the research institutes'activities.

Agricultural Extension (US$18.40 million in the SAR, US$17.12 million actual). The component is
rated unsatisfactory because of the limited impact on farmers' productivity and low extension coverage
(35 percent of farm families).      Yield improvements for different crops were limited.          The mixed
performance achieved by this component resulted from: (i) a difficult institutional setting at the beginning
of project implementation following the sudden decision of the Government to split the Ministry of
Agriculture into two departments; (ii) the creation of two directorates: the extension and adaptive research
directorate (DVRD) and the extension and professional organization directorate (DVAOP) while field staff
were cut following an agreement with the IMF; and (iii) the difficulty for the project to switch from an
essentially top-down approach to a demand-driven approach. Thus, from 1999 to 2001, the integrated
extension delivery, which was the major objective of this component, could not properly function.
Afterwards, reduced availability of field staff limited coverage of the extension service. It is worth noting,
however, that thanks to training in cooperative legislation provided by the extension service, OPs are
emerging with increasing responsibility and professionalism; technologies have been adequately transferred
to OPs through training; agro-pastoral extension services are becoming more effective; promotion,
diversification and intensification of agriculture and livestock are taking place; access of women and
youngsters to extension services have been reinforced with the establishment of demonstration plots
targeted at these groups.




                                                     - 5 -

Pilot Professional Organizations (POs) (US$3.7 million in the SAR, US$7.23 million actual). The
component is rated satisfactory. Substantial achievements were made in two areas. On the legal front,
the cooperative law was promulgated in February 2004 with subsequent dissemination of implementation
decrees.  All provinces have been covered with the full support of all stakeholders (centralized and
"deconcentrated" technical services, professional organizations and NGOs) under the leadership of the
CPCE funded in the framework of PNDSA II. It is unanimously recognized that POs are emerging as vital
partners for planning, designing, implementing and managing micro-projects.            The recent evaluation
conducted by an independent consulting firm has confirmed the innovative approach adopted by PNDSA II,
which is leading to more empowered and responsible POs that are accountable to their members and
position them as true partners in rural development. Additional support still needs to be provided to the
POs under the successor project by dealing with the high rate of member's illiteracy; improving their
organization structure and their poor internal and external communication skills.

Animal health and pastoralist promotion (US$2.5 million in the SAR, US$2.3 million actual). The
component is rated marginally satisfactory. Support to sector development was successful through the
provision of needed infrastructure: - livestock posts (10), quarantine parks (5), vaccination parks (18),
regional labs (4), livestock market (1), slaughterhouse (1) - and equipment (lab equipment, fridges, 100
motorcycles), and capacity strengthening of staff (24). As a result, vaccination coverage has reached 30%.
The structuring and organization of the sector seemed promising as advisory services and sanitary
inspections have also taken off and will pave ways for efficient sanitary control. Even support to migrant
herders achieved better results as unplanned activities (regional workshops and exhibitions) in conjunction
with the use of media (national and local radios) had positive spill over effects on the herders and may have
a durable impact. It has contributed to conflict alleviation between herders and agriculturists through: (i)
the setting of a legal framework of pastoral zones and promotion of awareness of different actors; (ii)
sanitary improvement of the herds; (iii) dissemination of information in the riskier zones; (iv) and the
issuing of transhumance certificate. Finally, the PNDSA II has contributed to raise awareness on the
importance of: (i) the collaboration between public, private and associative sectors; (ii) pastoral
development (mobility, community-based pastoral resource management); and (iii) rethinking livestock
development strategy from a poverty reduction and economic growth perspective (IEPC approach).

Weaknesses also prevailed relating to the emergence of the private sector. With the reduction of staff in the
public sector, compulsory vaccination and inspection were to be taken up by the private sector. Poor
management of private veterinary clinics and an unclear definition of responsibilities between the
associative, private and public sectors, led to a less than satisfactory uptake. As a result, only 28 out of 60
private veterinarians were granted a sanitary mandate in 2004. Finally, despite the awareness raised on the
need to maintain mobility in the pastoral system and to provide pastoralists with specific services, common
vision lacked on how to address rational pastoral development.




                                                      - 6 -

Restructuring of agricultural services (US$1.2 million in the SAR, US$0.19 million actual). The
component is rated marginally satisfactory. Started in 1998, the liquidation of CRPA was achieved in
2001 following an audit and a transfer of part of its assets to the regional directorates of agriculture and
animal resources. Remaining assets were auctioned off. The liquidation of the CRPA led to a cost savings
estimated by the audit at CFAF 6 billion per year. The personnel of the CCPASA (Coordination Unit for
the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program) and central directorates were trained in design, monitoring &
evaluation of development projects; and study tours were organized to Guinea and Benin. With the support
of PNDSA II, the Permanent Secretariat for agriculture sector policies (SP/CPSA), which had taken over
the responsibilities of the CCPASA, developed an action plan for horticulture development. Moreover, an
institutional audit of the Ministry of Agricultural, Water and Fisheries was undertaken and its conclusions
were discussed in a workshop in December 2002. SP/CPSA also contributed to the preparation of the rural
development strategy based on a comprehensive development framework to foster economic growth and
poverty reduction in Burkina. However, the restructuring of the agricultural services remains an unfinished
agenda as the system is still costly.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
During the project design, economic benefits from the project were estimated at 39 percent with a net
present value (NPV) of CFAF 58 billion at an opportunity cost of investment capital of 12 percent.
Unfortunately, the assumptions and underlying data for this analysis could not be found in project files. In
light of a poor monitoring and evaluation system from which it is impossible to obtain the required data
(on-farm yields, livestock and market prices), no ex-post economic analysis was carried out. Based on the
lower farmer coverage and the limited gains in crop yield, it is unlikely that the project has achieved its
original target.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
In Burkina, determination of project benefits resulting from an agricultural services project must include
agricultural and livestock activities performed by smallholders, who represent more than 90 percent of the
farmers. For the same reasons mentioned in paragraph 4.3, no financial analysis was carried out.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Rated modest. PNDSA II has: helped (i) liquidated the CRPAs; (ii) contributed to reinvigorate INERA
and IRSAT through capacity building and provision of essential infrastructure and equipment; and (iii)
helped shed cumbersome and inefficiently managed activities and improved the framework on which future
institutional strengthening could build. It could have had a major institutional impact if the role of CNRST,
which oversaw both institutions, had been clarified by Government. To some extent the project has helped
Government       refocus its attention on core public functions and foster       increased deconcentration of
activities to the regional, provincial and local levels. At the grassroots level, PNDSA II has contributed to
the emergence of professional associations through the CPCE programs, which has allowed an improved
demand formulation from producers and strengthened research and extension linkages.                The project
suffered from compulsory staff reductions, slow response from the private sector in the case of the animal
health services, low literacy rate and a lack of managerial capacity to coordinate activities. These issues
will need to be addressed through the project presently under preparation.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The political instability prevailing in Côte d'Ivoire since 1999 has had some impact on PNDSA II, which
was asked to assist in the reintegration of thousands of Burkinabés who had fled this country. The
precipitous fall of world cotton prices had an adverse effect on farmers in the cotton producing zones, while
all farmers were affected by less than average rains.



                                                      - 7 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Unplanned reforms of the Ministry of Agriculture adversely impacted project implementation. A sudden
cabinet reshuffle, which split the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources into two ministries:
Agriculture and Water Resources, and Fishery and Animal resources following project approval
substantially delayed the implementation of the extension components and complicated efforts to create an
integrated extension approach. Moreover, there was no clear indication about the role and responsibilities
of the CNRST in agricultural research. Staff turnover, particularly in livestock, and the difficulty to
recruit new field staff to reinforce extension services negatively impacted project implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Weak financial managerial capacity of INERA led to suspension of disbursements for a year. In addition,
poor monitoring and evaluation system, combined with weak communication skills, affected project
coordination, and the proper collection and analysis of necessary data to support appropriate decision
making.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost estimate is currently US$45.8 million. This is about US$2.1 million (-4.4% ) less
than the US$47.3 million estimated in the SAR. Taking into consideration the size, complexity and risk of
the project, the final US$ dollar costs are very close to the SAR projected figure. PNDSA II disbursed
98.7% of the IDA credit following two extensions of the project closing date. These extensions were
necessitated to compensate for the credit delayed effectiveness, the one year suspension of disbursement
and the completion of horticultural-related support infrastructure. Within IDA's share of project costs,
allocations to the different disbursement categories changed during implementation. Allocations to civil
work and goods increased (13.5% and 6.7% respectively) following the decision to improve market access
through investments in a fruit export facility in Bobo Dioulasso and the rehabilitation of the cold storage
rooms at Ouagadougou airport. Grants increased substantially (28%) with the decision of the Government
to scale up micro-projects nationwide in the 45 provinces and the re-insertion of the Burkinabés repatriated
from Côte d'Ivoire. Allocations to training and consultancy and operating costs fell by 12% and 19.5% for
the Concerted Framework and exchange for professional organizations (Cadre de Concertation et
d'echange des organizations paysannes-CPCE/OP) respectively, without an impact on project performance
(costs seem to have been overestimated at appraisal).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is unlikely unless concrete actions are taken. The project has helped revitalize the research
institutions by providing infrastructure and equipment which should make them more efficient and
responsive to farmers' needs. It has also contributed to streamline extension services aimed at contractual
arrangements to pave the way for effective private sector involvement. Professional organizations have
been strengthened to be accountable to their constituencies. These achievements are steps forward,
however, sustainability will not be guaranteed unless additional concrete actions are undertaken by all
stakeholders in two areas: (i) the adoption of a well structured long-term financial mechanism to ensure that
revitalized institutions will not loose momentum in case of budget constraints, particularly as research and
extension institutions are easily subject to budget cuts in periods of financial crisis; and (ii) an effective
public-private partnership is firmly established to streamline service provision. On the market access front,
the project has, at a late phase of implementation, been instrumental in putting in place specific
infrastructure to promote market access. Every effort should be made to quickly implement agreements
reached to contract out the management of these facilities to the private sector.




                                                      - 8 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As most of the project activities were already integrated into existing departments, no special transitional
arrangements are needed. The project was designed to supplement the achievement of two previous
extension/research projects. However, improving access to markets without which service delivery cannot
be sustained was a missing link. Hence, the Government and the Bank are designing a new project to bridge
this gap. This follow-up project will also contribute to fine-tune the demand-driven approach, increased
productivity and improved quality.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Rated unsatisfactory. Although the project objective was consistent with the Government's development
vision and with the Bank's assistance strategy it suffered from some significant weaknesses in design that
contributed to mixed outcomes (use of top-down approach for extension services, no market access for
agricultural products etc...). In addition, the management capacity of the implementing agency was
overestimated as demonstrated by delays in project implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
Rated unsatisfactory. A total number of ten supervision missions (including the MTR) monitored the
progress at various stages of project implementation, providing assistance as necessary and making
recommendations to improve project performance. However, the Bank did not take a bold step to
profoundly restructure the project as recommended by the MTR mission. Two major factors hampered
project implementation: (i) weak focus of the supervision missions on the effectiveness of service delivery;
and (ii) inefficiency of the monitoring and evaluation system. In addition, there was a rapid turn over of
task managers (3) and sector managers (3).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government performance was rated satisfactory. A great interest was shown by Government, which
was more inclined to make the project a CDD type one. When convinced that PNGT was dealing with that
approach, the Government embarked enthusiastically on the preparation which led to negotiations in which
two ministers participated.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government performance at this stage was rated unsatisfactory. The Government proceeded with the
liquidation of the CRPA as planned and elaborated the decentralized rural development strategy as a
framework of redefining the new role of the state and fostering the development of professional
organizations. However, reforms remained unfinished when the Government took an unexpected decision to
split the Ministry of Agriculture into two departments creating some confusion between institutions. In
addition, the Government failed to implement the research orientation law in the perspective of revising the
legal framework of CNRST, which could have clarified the status and the link between INERA, IRSAT
and CNRST. Furthermore, the Government was unable to release counterpart funds in adequate amounts
and in a timely manner, which negatively impacted project implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementation agencies' performance was rated unsatisfactory. There was a lack of coordination
resulting from a communication problem. This may be attributed to the fact that the steering committee


                                                   - 9 -

ceased to function after two meetings. The audit report of INERA reflected serious weaknesses in financial
management, and as a result, disbursements were suspended for an entire year and thus, delayed project
implementation. Above all, the monitoring and evaluation system did not function efficiently as expected
and made difficult the assessment of the project's objective achievement.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on what is mentioned above, the overall Borrower performance was rated unsatisfactory. In fact the
strong Government's commitment demonstrated during project preparation was not sustained during project
implementation.

8. Lessons Learned

Institutional setting and integrated extension service delivery: Achieving an integrated extension service
was the goal set by the project to minimize extension costs and streamline extension messages. It requires
an unique institutional setting particularly in an environment where coordination and communication were
ineffective. The split of the Ministry of Agriculture in two ministries made the implementation of this
approach impossible. However, project implementation has also confirmed that an integrated agro-pastoral
extension approach doesn't work easily given the specificity of each sub-sector. Project implementation
proved, in the livestock sector, that the extension service delivery should have relied more on livestock
specialists for pastoralist and semi-intensive production systems, and on private veterinarians for animal
health. Rather than being dogmatic on this issue, a serious debate should be conducted to find a suitable
solution to that problem and foster service delivery. The new operation is an unique opportunity to raise
this issue and find adequate solution.

Monitoring Evaluation: M&E activity should be put at the forefront of project design and implementation.
Two ways to achieve that in the case of Burkina Faso are to: (i) make every effort to effectively involve all
national institutions responsible for data collection and management such as the National Statistical Bureau
and the Directorate of Studies and Programs of the Ministry of Agriculture, or (ii) create a Network of
Impact Studies integrating the institutions in charge of data collection and management under the auspices
of a strong national research institution. The latter scenario is being piloted in the West African sub-region
and is producing concrete results particularly, in terms of design and implementation of baseline studies.

Service deliveries: the demand-driven approach to service delivery can substantially contribute to
agricultural growth and food security. Its introduction has been widely accepted as a mean to reinforce the
capacity of professional organizations to formulate their demands and meet members' needs. However, for
service delivery to be efficient and sustained, a holistic approach should be pursued based on: (i) a more
professionalized and decentralized service delivery accountable to farmers; (ii) improved market and credit
access in the perspective of creating incentives to increase productivity and new technology adoption; (iii)
promoting small rural agro-industries in which the private sector particularly, the Professional
Organizations will have a key role to play; and (iv) a sustainable financial mechanism to fund extension
and research service delivery. This approach is yet to be designed and implemented in Burkina Faso since
PNDSA II did not cover all these aspects. The new project, presently under preparation, should help the
Government design and adopt this holistic approach and support its strategy of achieving faster growth,
reducing rural poverty, fostering its integration within the regional and international economies.

Empowering farmers and communities is a long process whose outcome cannot be achieved overnight.
Despite many constraints encountered during project implementation, Burkina Faso's farmers and their
professional organizations are becoming slowly but surely key players in the rural development decision
process. Officials seem to adhere to this new approach, which constitutes a big step forward towards



                                                     - 10 -

improving transparency, good governance, accountability, and financial sustainability. The Bank and other
donors and the Government need to find ways to support this initiative on a long-term basis to guarantee
sustainable development and shared growth.

Privatization of service delivery: Privatizing service delivery happened to be more complex than
anticipated as shown by the privatization of animal health in Burkina Faso. This requires an enabling
environment, a strong political will, a critical mass of private actors and more experienced professional
organizations supported by a strong capacity building program to foster public-private partnership. To that
end, a public-private partnership should carefully look at these issues as part of the design of the following
operation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower provided comments on the ICR. It also submitted a report which is presented in Annex 8.
The borrower did not mention whether or not the project achieved its objective. It rather focused on the
outputs achievement which, it thinks, was impressive compared the Bank assessment. The Borrower did
not agreed with the Bank assessment of the project limited impact on farm productivity. It stressed that
Burkina Faso's research system has outperformed and is nationally and regionally acknowledged. On
lessons learnt, however, there is no disagreement.

The Borrower also made the following comments on:

Extension: The Borrower disagreed with the Bank assessment on the impact of the project on yields and
production which did not take into account external factors such as rain. The Borrower stated that the poor
yield performance of cotton had nothing to do with PNDSA II and is not an appropriate example since
cotton extension is performed by SOFITEX. It acknowledged, however, that PNDSA II provided assistance
to farmers on professional organizations structuring and financial support to awareness campaigns for the
National Associations of Burkina Faso's Producers.

Restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture: The Borrower mentioned that there are three ministries in
charge of rural development including the Ministry of Environment not two as written by the Bank

Research: the Borrower mentioned that the Bank needs to acknowledge that efforts were made to improve
communication although the Government recognizes the lack of strategical orientation in this area as an
issue.

Government performance: The Borrower stated that while the creation of the Ministry of Animal
Resources was an unexpected political decision, it did not create confusion but made more difficult the
implementation of some of the recommendations made by the study on the restructuring of agricultural
services. The borrower proposed that a new study be undertaken and take into account the new institutional
context.

Project implementation unit: the Borrower mentioned that to cope with the inefficiency of the steering
committee, a commission of programs consisting of the AGRI-RA management committee and the
Scientific Management was put in place.

Conclusion: The Borrower recommended that since there are discrepancies on ratings between the Bank
team and the Government team, an ex-post evaluation be conducted by an independent consultant.



                                                    - 11 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA

10. Additional Information




                                             - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
                 Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Evolution (5% increase per year) in annual   Maize:                                          Maize: 665
production for principal crops (thousands of Sorghum:                                        Sorghum:1600
tons)                                        Millet:                                         Millet: 1184
                                             Cotton                                          Cotton: 665



While total cereal production increased from 2.5 million MT to 3.6 Million MT from 1990 to 2004, i.e. 3%
on average,
It jumped from 3.1 million MT in 2003 to 3.6 MT i.e. 14% within one year
Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                 Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Agricultural Research: organization

a) Fund raising Capacity of Research Inst.
   . Evolution of funds raised
   . Numbers of conventions
   . No. of INERA researchers (master's                                                      32 were certified of which 2 full researchers,
level) certified by the regional board for                                                   2 associate researchers and 28 assistant
scientific excellence (CAMES)                                                                researchers


b) Quality and efficient of research
   . Number of scientific publications                                                       321 scientific publications were made
                                                                                             317 scientific communications were delivered
                                                                                             and 156 technical notes were published and
                                                                                             216 special reports were also issued

                                                                                             Research achievements have been
 . Users and decisionmakers interest                                                         recognized and several prices have been won



  . Solicitation of INERA's expertise at the                                                 Scientific support to the University of Togo
international level                                                                          Coordination of the regional pole of natural
                                                                                             resource management in CILSS
                                                                                             Regional coodination of sustainable
                                                                                             agriculture integrating agriculture and
                                                                                             livestock in Burkina, Mali and Niger

c) Improved link between research and
development
   .Strengthening Adaptive                                                                   30 partnership agreements signed
Research-Numbers of contracts established                                                    80 contracts established between OPs and
between OPs and INERA                                                                        INERA




d) research infrastructure completed                                                         Physical infrastructure were built although
                                                                                             some labs in IRSAT are yet to be certified to
                                                                                             be fully operational



2. Agricultural Extension:

Yield achievement (kg/ha)                    Millet: 1,000; Maize: 2,300 ; Sorghum: 1,400; Millet:827; Maize:1,223; Sorghum:962;
                                             Bottom land rice: 4,000; Irrigated rice: 5,000; Bottom Land rice:       Irrigated rice:1,202
                                             Cotton: 2,000




                                                                - 13 -

Number of farmers who have access to           60% of farmers of which 20% of women          3,000,000 have access to extension of which
services delivery                                                                            1,000,000 women

a) Percentage of farmers who have received                                                   More than 800,000 farmers have being
extension training on recommended                                                            trained in different areas (coop. mgmt, tech.
technologies                                                                                 transfer, res.mgmt, soil restoration, manure,
                                                                                             diversif/intensif.etc.


b) % of villages covered by extension          90% of villages covered by the extension      45% of villages have been covered
services in partnership with others actors     services



c)Natural Res. Management                      5 to 10% of land rehabilitated                No data available
. land rehabilitated                           7% on yearly basis
. adoption rate of natural resource
management

Number of contracts between extension
services and producer organizations
successfully completed under the
demand-driven service pilot


3. Animal Health and Pastoral Promotion:

Vaccination coverage:                                                                         30% of compulsory vaccination coverage
                                                                                             (low coverage but room for improvement)

a) Support to the public sector
b) Elaboration and adoption of a new code      ( 0 = nothing ; 1 = elaborated ; 2 = adopted) 1. The pastoral code was elaborated but not
Pastoral                                                                                     adopted due to a lack of consensus.


. Provisions of infrastructure                                                               20 livestock posts established 5 quarantine
                                                                                             parks rehabilitated; National Laboratory for
                                                                                             livestock rehabilitated; 4 regional laboratories
                                                                                             built.
                                                                                             slaughtering area built at Titao
                                                                                             slaughterhouse in Bobo Diouala in long run
                                                                                             Quarantine parks and inspection posts
                                                                                             established but not used due to
                                                                                             lack/implementation of regulatory and legal
                                                                                             framework, human resources,




b) Support to the private sector

. Number of private veterinarians certified to 60 veterinarians with sanitary mandate        28 veterinarians held a sanitary mandate
provide public animal health services
("mandat sanitaire")

. Establishment of information system for      Not planned                                   Establishment of a unit to support
transhumant producers                                                                        transhumant herders; Promulgation of law
                                                                                             relative to pastoralism in Burkina; areas
                                                                                             Rehabilitation of communal zones for
                                                                                             pastoralism; impression of international and
                                                                                             national certificate for transhumance; 15
                                                                                             arretes were promulgated


. Support to intensification sector                                                          7 technicians were trained but training for the
                                                                                             herders




                                                                   - 14 -

4. Support to Producer Organizations:

Number of POs participating in managing         60% of POs manages RDV                      0.67% of POs are capable of managing RDV
rural development programs
                                                                                            Chamber Network has been installed
Establishment of chamber Network                Chamber Network has been installed and is
                                                active in 2003
                                                                                            235 provincial producer organizations
a) Number of provincial producer                Not set
organization coordination committees
(CPCE) established and functioning


b) Number of micro-projects prepared and        Not set                                     About 2700 micro-projects have been
implemented by producers' organizations                                                     implemented in 45 provinces
c) Funds allocated to producer organizations
for their micro-projects (billion of FCFA)      About CFAF 2 billion for the pilot project  CFAF 4.5 billion have been mobilized




5. Restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Animal Resources

a) Liquidation of the CRPA (Regional            Liquidation of the CRPA                     All CRPA were liquidated
Centers for Agro-pastoral Promotion)


b) Staff Redeployment                                                                       Not implemented due to the split of the
                                                                                            Ministry of agriculture and training of staff not
                                                                                            materialized
c) Elaboration of a rural strategy and a letter
of decentralized rural development strategy     Document of decentralized rural strategy    Document has been issued

1End of project
1: Data projected in the last PSR are data set during the logical framework sessions where performance
indicators were set




                                                                   - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              Appraisal          Actual/Latest          Percentage of
                                                                              Estimate             Estimate                Appraisal
                           Component                                         US$ million          US$ million
Agricultural Research                                                            17.10                   17.20                  100.6
Agricultural Extension                                                           18.40                   17.12                       93
Livestock Health                                                                   2.30                   1.94                    84.3
Pilot operations                                                                   3.70                   7.23                  195.4
Restructuring of Agri-Ra                                                           1.20                   0.19                    15.8

Total Baseline Cost                                                              42.70                   43.68
 Physical Contingencies                                                            1.40                   0.60
 Price Contingencies                                                               3.30                   1.52
                              Total Project Costs                                47.40                   45.80
                      Total Financing Required                                   47.40                   45.80
The total amount of funds disbursed at the end of the project is superior to the initial amount due to the large drop of the dollar rate.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                          1
                                                            Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                   ICB                   NCB                        2             N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                                      Other
1. Works                                    0.00                  5.55                  0.00                0.00                5.55
                                           (0.00)                (5.30)                (0.00)              (0.00)             (5.30)
2. Goods                                    8.03                  0.00                  0.00                0.00                8.03
                                           (8.03)                (0.00)                (0.00)              (0.00)             (8.03)
3. Services                                 0.00                  0.00                  3.43                0.00                3.43
                                           (0.00)                (0.00)                (3.43)              (0.00)             (3.43)
4. Training a/                              0.00                  0.00                  7.10                0.00                7.10
                                           (0.00)                (0.00)                (7.10)              (0.00)             (7.10)
5. Salaries and allowances                  0.00                  0.00                  0.39                0.00                0.39
                                           (0.00)                (0.00)                (0.39)              (0.00)             (0.39)
6. Operating Cost                           0.00                  0.00                 19.22                3.58               22.80
                                           (0.00)                (0.00)               (14.43)              (2.58)             (17.01)
   Total                                    8.03                  5.55                 30.14                3.58               47.30
                                           (8.03)                (5.30)               (25.35)              (2.58)             (41.26)




                                                             - 16 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 1.38               2.13              0.31             0.00              3.82
                                           (0.73)             (1.30)            (0.17)            (0.00)           (2.20)
   2. Goods                                 5.77               1.03              0.75             0.00              7.55
                                           (5.25)             (0.98)            (0.61)            (0.00)           (6.84)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              2.83             0.00              2.83
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.62)            (0.00)           (2.62)
   4. Training a/                           0.00               0.00              6.80             1.50              8.30
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.65)            (1.00)           (7.65)
   5. Salaries and allowances               0.00               0.00              0.20             0.00              0.20
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.15)            (0.00)           (0.15)
   6. Operating Cost                        0.00               0.00             20.12             2.98             23.10
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (20.10)            (1.73)           (21.83)
       Total                                7.15               3.17             31.00             4.48             45.80
                                           (5.98)             (2.28)           (30.30)            (2.73)           (41.29)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Research                       16.93         0.16                    17.20                               101.6     0.0
Extension                      17.91         0.48                    17.12                               95.6      0.0
Animal Health                   2.50         0.08                     1.94                               77.6      0.0
Pilot Programs                  3.13         0.20         0.36        7.22                               230.7     0.0       0.0
Restructuring                   1.22         0.07                     0.00                                0.0      0.0

   NB: Beneficiaries are considered as CoF.




                                                           - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Data not available to conduct a reliable ex-post analysis.




                                                   - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/07/1994                2    AG. SERVICES SPECIALIST
                                             (1), LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              02/15/1995                1    AG. SERVICES SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              03/06/1995                3    AG. ECONOMIST (1),
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST(1),
                                             AG. SERVICES SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              10/15/1995                3    AG. SERVICES SPECLIASTS
                                             (2), SR. AGRICULTURIST (1)




 Appraisal/Negotiation

              03/14/1998                2    AG. SERVICES SPECIALIST



 Supervision

              05/12/1998                5    SR. AGR. SERVICES SPEC (1);      S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             EXTENSION SERVICES SPE
                                             (1); FINANCIAL MNGT.
                                             SPECIA (1); AGRICULTURIST
                                             (1)
              02/18/1999                7    SR. AG. SERV. SPEC. (1);         S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             LIVESTOCK SPEC. (1); AGR.
                                             EXTENSION SPEC. (1);
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1); PROD.
                                             ORGANIZATIONS (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT (1)
              11/30/1999                7    RESEARCH MANAGEMENT              S               S
                                             (1); AGR. SERVICES (2);
                                             RESEARCH (1); PRODUCERS
                                             ORGANIZATION (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT



                                              - 19 -

                                            (1); DISBURSEMENT (1)
               11/05/2000              1    AG. SERVICES SPECIALIS (1)         S    S
               11/10/2001              3    AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1);              S    S
                                            AGRIC. EXTENSION (1);
                                            AGRIC. MARKETING (1)
               04/12/2002              2    TTL, MISSION LEADER (1);           S    S
                                            CO-TTL, AG. SERVICES (1)
               12/14/2002              8    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);             S    U
                                            TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            PRODUCER ORGANISATIONS
                                            (1); LIVESTOCK (1); TTL (1);
                                            co-TTL, Ag. extension (1); Ag.
                                            research (1)
               10/15/2003              2    co-TTL (1); Producer org. spec.    S    U
                                            (1)
               04/28/2004              4    TTL; AGRICULTURAL                 U     U
                                            SPECIALIST, PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST, FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT

 ICR
               12/10/2004             7     TTL, AG. ECONOMIST,               U     U
                                            AG. SPECIALIST, PROC.
                                            SPECIALIST, FIN. MGNT
                                            SP. LIVESTOCK
                                            SPECIALIST,



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                398.0
  Supervision                            189                           572.7
  ICR                                      23                           70.9
  Total                                                               1041.6




                                            - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Méthode de mesure de l'impact du PNDSA II (2001)
2.   Nouvelle approche de vulgarisation agricole (mars 2002)
3.   Evaluation Externe de l'Opération test d'Appui Conseil à la demande dans le cadre du
     PNDSA II (2004)
4.   Analyse de l'impact du renforcement des capacités des organisations Paysannes
5.   Le Suivi-Evaluation de la Composante Elevage du PNDSA II (Juillet 1999)
6.   Bilan de l'exécution du PNDSA II de 2000 à 2004
7.   Synthèse des ateliers régionaux de capitalisation des expériences en matière de
     contractualisation des Services Agricoles
8.   La planification par objectif de l'Unité de Coordination du PNDSA II
9.   Cadre d'orientation des interventions en matière de fourniture de services agricoles au
     Producteur (2000)
10.  La refonte institutionnelle du Ministère de l'Agriculture, de l'Hydraulique et des
     Ressources Halieutiques (2004)
11.  Le Plan d'Action de la filière Fruits et Légumes (2004)
12.  Répertoire des Prestataires de Services aux Organisations Paysannes (2000)
13.  Formation sur les enquêtes évaluatives de la compagne 2002 (rapport de synthèse)
14.  Evaluation externe de l'expérience CPCE/OP dans neuf Provinces du Burkina
15.  Etude sur l'impact environnemental du PNDSA II
16.  Rapport sur la situation du personnel de vulgarisation
17.  Réflexion sur la composante Appui aux OPs
18.  Le point sur la restructuration des Services Agricoles
19.  Manuel de Procédures pour l'élaboration de financement et l'exécution des projets et
     Programme d'appui- conseil et de promotion commerciales des produits agropastoraux
     dans le cadre du PNDSA II
20.  Proposition d'organisation de la vulgarisation agricole dans le PNDSA II
21.  Bilan de la première et de la seconde phases du Programme d'appui aux OP et de
     réinsertion socio-économique des rapatriés




                                              - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution



                                  BURKINA FASO
                                Unité ­ Progrès - Justice




    RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU SECOND PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DES
                         SERVICES AGRICOLES (PNDSAII)


                                DOCUMENT DE SYNTHESE




                                                           Février 2005




                                         - 24 -

    I. DESCRIPTION DU PROJET

Le Second Projet National de Développement des Services Agricoles (PNDSA II) est la deuxième phase du
Projet de Renforcement des Services d'Appui aux Producteurs (PRSAP) exécuté de 1989 à 1997. D'un
coût de 30 300 000 DTS, le PNDSA II a été exécuté dans un contexte de réorganisation du cadre
institutionnel marqué par le désengagement de l'Etat, le renforcement du rôle des Organisations Paysannes
et du secteur privé. Démarré       en 1998, le Projet a vu sa date de clôture reportée par deux fois,
respectivement au 30 juin 2003 puis au 31 décembre 2004. L'objectif global du PNDSA II est de réduire la
pauvreté en milieu rural en renforçant la production des petits exploitants par la fourniture de services
agricoles essentiels et le renforcement des liens entre la Recherche agricole, les Organisations Paysannes et
la Vulgarisation.

Les objectifs spécifiques définis et les résultats attendus par composante se présentent comme suit :

- la recherche agricole
Objectifs spécifiques: (1) renforcer les capacités techniques et opérationnelles et de gestion des structures
de Recherche ; (2) mettre en place et/ou améliorer les infrastructures et aménagements propices à la
recherche agricole ; et (3) générer des technologies performantes adaptées.
Résultats attendus : (1) des spécialistes de recherche de haut niveau sont formés et disponibles ; (2) des
infrastructures d'appui à la Recherche sont acquises ; (3) la Recherche-Développement est renforcée et des
technologies adaptées sont générées.

- la vulgarisation agropastorale
Objectifs spécifiques : (1) Renforcer les prestations des services de vulgarisation agricole et de production
animale ; (2) gérer durablement les ressources naturelles ; (3) l'accès des femmes et des jeunes aux
services agricoles.
Résultats attendus : (1) l'appui-conseil aux producteurs est renforcé et l'efficacité des services de
vulgarisation est améliorée ; (2) l'accès des femmes et des jeunes aux services agricoles s'est amélioré ; (3)
les rendements des productions agricoles et pastorales se sont accrus de façon significative.

 - l'appui aux organisations des producteurs et le programme pilote de participation
Objectifs spécifiques : (1) contribuer à l'amélioration et au renforcement du cadre institutionnel, législatif
et juridique des OP ; (2) tester la contractualisation des services agricoles à travers le financement de
micro-projets élaborés et présentés par les OP.
Résultats attendus: (1) un cadre législatif favorable à l'émergence d'OP crédibles est disponible ; (2) les
capacités techniques et organisationnelles des OP sont renforcées.

- la santé animale et la promotion du pastoralisme
Objectifs spécifiques: (1) promouvoir la participation du secteur privé aux activités de santé animale ; (2)
renforcer les capacités techniques et opérationnelles des acteurs et des structures intervenant dans la santé
animale ; (3) améliorer la productivité des animaux.
Résultats attendus: (1) les capacités opérationnelles et techniques des structures publiques et privées de
santé et de production animales sont renforcées ; (2) les paramètres de santé et de production animales se
sont améliorés.

- la réorganisation des services agricoles et la gestion administrative et financière du projet
Objectifs spécifiques: (1) améliorer et renforcer le cadre organisationnel et institutionnel du ministère



                                                       - 25 -

chargé de l'agriculture et de l'élevage ; (2) assurer une gestion optimale des biens et services du projet ; (3)
réaliser les audits internes et externes et assurer un suivi-évaluation efficace des activités du projet.
Résultats attendus ; (1) l'acquisition et la gestion des biens et services du projet sont bien assurées ; (2) les
audits internes et externes ainsi que le suivi-évaluation sont réalisés de façon efficace et optimale.

Sur le plan de l'organisation de la mise en oeuvre du projet, il faut préciser que le PNDSA II comprend
deux grands volets : (1) le volet Recherche sous la tutelle du Ministère chargé de la Recherche assuré par
l'INERA et l'IRSAT avec la coordination du CNRST; et (2) le volet Agriculture et Ressources Animales
composé de cinq (5) composantes, à savoir : la composante Vulgarisation, la composante Appui aux OP, la
composante Santé Animale et Promotion du Pastoralisme, la composante Gestion et la composante
Restructuration des services agricoles. Ce volet est coordonné par l'Unité de Coordination et sous la tutelle
du Ministère chargé de l'Agriculture.

Un comité de pilotage mis en place pour suivre et orienter les activités du projet à travers les différentes
sessions d'examen et d'approbation des rapports et programmes annuels présentés par les deux volets n'a
pas été fonctionnel. Cependant, le comité de gestion mis en place par le volet AGRI-RA et les instances
scientifiques et de gestion de la recherche ont tenu régulièrement leurs différentes sessions.

En ce qui concerne l'évaluation de la conception du projet et de la phase de préparation, il faut dire qu'elles
ont été centrées sur les expériences du PRSAP et du Projet Recherche Agricole (PRA) exécutés
respectivement de 1989 à 1997 et de 1989 à 1996. Par ailleurs, la conception du PNDSA II a tenu compte
des résultats des réformes économiques et institutionnelles, des orientations de la politique agricole basée
sur la Lettre de Politique de Développement Agricole (LPDA) et du plan stratégique de la recherche
scientifique et technologique adoptée par le gouvernement en 1995.

Le contenu du programme correspondait bien aux préoccupations du gouvernement et des autres acteurs
concernés (producteurs, privés). Toutefois, il faut noter que les nouvelles orientations relatives à la
responsabilisation des acteurs à la base et le recentrage des missions de l'Etat n'ont pas été bien assimilés et
appropriés par les OP. Par conséquent, leur contribution à la conception et à l'élaboration des programmes
du projet est demeurée faible malgré les concertations organisées à cet effet.

II.      RESULTATS ET IMPACTS PAR COMPOSANTE

    2.1. VOLET AGRICULTURE ET RESSOURCES ANIMALES

    2.1.1 Composante Vulgarisation

l La vulgarisation a hérité de la stratégie et du dispositif technique mis en place par le premier projet
    (PRSAP). en conséquence, les différentes actions de formation et d'appui-conseil étaient familières au
    personnel. La revue à mi-parcours a permis de prendre des décisions importantes visant par exemple à
    tester l'approche de fourniture de services agricoles à partir de la demande paysanne. Cette
    réorientation a entraîné l'arrêt des approches classiques de vulgarisation en vue de focaliser les efforts
    sur la nouvelle approche. L'analyse des résultats montre un bon niveau d'atteinte des objectifs. Les
    impacts les plus significatifs des résultats de la vulgarisation concernent :
l l'accroissement des rendements différentiels des principales spéculations céréalières. Sorgho : + 375
    kg/ha, mil : + 246 kg/ha, maïs : + 921 kg/ha ;
l l'amélioration du niveau d'alphabétisation avec 25 436 participations soit 97 % des prévisions ;
l le taux d'encadrement des exploitations a atteint 35 % et celui des producteurs 39 %. Le taux
    d'adoption des thèmes techniques passe globalement de 49 à 60 % pour les productions végétales et


                                                      - 26 -

    animales et les actions de gestion des ressources naturelles (RN) se sont renforcées avec 7 264 ha de
    sites anti-érosifs et 25 860 fosses fumières.
l Le nombre d'unités d'embouche augmente de 30 % et celles de la transformation de 50 %.
l Les femmes et les jeunes ont plus accès aux services de vulgarisation et plusieurs outils sont mis en
    place et réalisés avec eux ;
l Au plan qualitatif, le système de vulgarisation, mis en place a créé des réflexes positifs au niveau des
    acteurs en matière de fourniture des services agricoles, notamment dans le domaine de l'organisation et
    de la planification des activités à tous les niveaux.
l Par ailleurs, la chaîne de formation des agents et des producteurs a créé un réseau de techniciens
    spécialisés à travers toutes les provinces du pays. Ces TS poursuivent leur fonction avec les
    compétences acquises grâce au PNDSA II. Cela constitue un aspect de pérennisation des actions du
    projet.

Toutefois, il est important de signaler que certaines contraintes importantes rencontrées ont été
essentiellement le faible niveau d'équipement des producteurs et leur faible capacité à valoriser les thèmes
techniques vulgarisés.

2.1.2. Composante Appui aux OP

    L'appui aux OP s'analyse en termes de formations, de création de conditions juridiques favorables aux
organisations Paysannes, de financement de micro-projets pour soutenir l'apprentissage des OP à l'exercice
de la maîtrise d'ouvrage de leur développement, etc.

    Les contraintes majeures ont été essentiellement le faible niveau d'alphabétisation des OP, la
circulation peu efficace de l'information et la modicité des moyens d'appui et d'accompagnement.

    Les impacts des résultats obtenus au niveau de cette composante se présentent comme suit :

·        Les OP ont une meilleure connaissance des textes et lois qui les régissent et leurs capacités
organisationnelles et techniques se sont accrues. Plus de 90 % fonctionnent conformément à la nouvelle loi.
L'action du projet a permis de créer des conditions plus favorables à l'autonomisation et à l'autopromotion
des OP avec l'adoption et la diffusion de lois et de textes réglementaires ;
·        l'action du PNDSA II a favorisé la création d'un environnement institutionnel marqué par une plus
grande responsabilisation/professionnalisation des OP et un dynamisme réel du mouvement paysan ;
·        l'accroissement des capacités opérationnelles des services chargés de l'appui aux OP, même si on
note des insuffisances ;
·        l'accélération de la structuration du mouvement coopératif dans un cadre législatif et réglementaire
approprié avec la mise en place par les organisations paysannes elles mêmes de la Confédération Paysanne
du Faso, l'émergence de fédérations, d'unions et d'organisations paysannes de base ;
·        La création de conditions favorables à un désengagement responsable de l'Etat et au renforcement
du processus de décentralisation ;
·        l'impact sur le développement institutionnel s'analyse en terme d'amélioration de la structuration et
de la clarification du cadre organisationnel du mouvement coopératif paysan et du renforcement de la
professionnalisation des organisations des producteurs. Il est évident que la clarification et le renforcement
des institutions paysannes et la création de conditions favorables à l'exercice de leur responsabilité dans le
domaine de la maîtrise d'ouvrage constituent une bonne contribution pour asseoir une stratégie d'un
développement durable.




                                                      - 27 -

Le financement de nombreux micro-projets a renforcé la dynamique micro-économique en améliorant les
échanges et en renforçant les conditions de production à travers l'acquisition d'équipements collectifs et la
formation technique des producteurs. Près de 2 700 OP ont bénéficié de ce financement et environ 12 000
rapatriés de la Côte-D'Ivoire se sont insérés dans le tissu socio-économique de leur village grâce à ces
micro-projets.

Par ailleurs, l'apprentissage à la maîtrise d'ouvrage et le développement à la base ont trouvé dans
l'exécution des micro-projets par les OP un terrain propice
d'application efficace.

La capitalisation des expériences en matière de contractualisation des services agricoles à travers la mise en
oeuvre des micro-projets a été réalisée et devrait servir aux réflexions pour la formulation de nouveaux
programmes de développement.

Cependant, l'analphabétisme, les insuffisances organisationnelles, le faible niveau de communication
interne et externe au niveau des OP et leur faible capacité de formulation et de gestion des micro-projets ont
été les principales difficultés qui ont influé négativement sur les performances du projet.

2.1.3. Composante Santé Animale et Promotion du Pastoralisme

Les activités programmées ont été exécutées à 82 % malgré les contraintes diverses dont les principales ont
été l'insuffisance qualitative et quantitative du personnel et l'irrégularité dans l'approvisionnement
financière des structures.

La réalisation des objectifs de la composante a produit les effets suivants :

·         une plus grande maîtrise des paquets technologiques, l'amélioration de la productivité et de la
qualité des produits au niveau des unités de production et de transformation des filières avicoles et porcines
périurbaines avec une baisse de la mortalité des porcs (de 10 à 5 %), un accroissement de la production
laitière (de 2,5 à 5 litres par vache et par jour) ;
·         une meilleure maîtrise des statistiques et de la problématique de la transhumance ;
·         l'amélioration du cadre législatif et réglementaire dans le domaine de l'élevage (textes sur la
transhumance, certificats de transhumance) ;
·         le renforcement des capacités opérationnelles au plan technique et infrastructurel ;
·         la contribution à la résolution progressive des conflits entre les communautés pastorales et
agricoles ;
·         en matière de développement institutionnel le statut d'Etablissement Publique à caractère
Administratif (EPA) du Laboratoire National d'Elevage (LNE), la mise en place du dispositif d'intervention
des vétérinaires privés, l'appui à l'émergence d'organisations faîtières et spécialisées d'éleveurs (filières),
constituent une contribution importante au développement institutionnel dans le paysage de l'élevage au
Burkina Faso ;
·         l'impact des résultats sur la stratégie de développement durable s'analyse en termes d'utilisation
permanente des documents de transhumance,
l'émergence d'organisations spécialisées au niveau des filières porcines et bétail/viande, le renforcement de
la concertation entre les acteurs du sous-secteur élevage, la contribution à la formulation de nouveaux
programmes tels le Programme Panafricain pour le Contrôle des Epizooties (PACE), l'Unité d'Appui
Fonctionnel aux Eleveurs, l' Initiative Elevage, Pauvreté et Croissance (IEPC).




                                                      - 28 -

On note toutefois des difficultés liées à l'installation des vétérinaires privés (faible capacité financière et
insuffisance organisationnelle). En effet sur 60 vétérinaires privés formés, 30 sont installés et exercent leur
profession.

2.1.4. La Restructuration des Services Agricoles

En ce qui concerne la restructuration des services agricoles, certaines contingences liées à l'éclatement du
ministère de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage en deux départements ministériels pleins ont rendu l'exécution de
certaines actions programmées impossibles telles la réduction des directions centrales, le redéploiement du
personnel (déconcentration), la répartition optimale des moyens d'intervention, etc. Toutefois, la
Réorganisation des Services Agricoles (RSA) a permis la création d'un cadre institutionnel nouveau qui
tient compte du processus de désengagement de l'Etat et de la responsabilisation des OP et du secteur privé.
Elle a aussi permis de consolider et de vulgariser les orientations politiques et les stratégies qui doivent
désormais accompagner le développement rural dans ce contexte institutionnel nouveau (recentrage des
missions des directions régionales par rapport à celles des Centres Régionaux de Promotion Agro-pastorale
(CRPA) par exemple).

 2.1.5 La gestion administrative et financière du PNDSA II

 Les résultats au niveau de ces composantes sont marqués par : (1) la réalisation systématique des audits
 financiers internes et externes ; (2) l'exécution à 100% des différents marchés programmés et de certains
 qui ont été initiés au cours de la vie du projet ; (3) l'inventaire annuel du patrimoine du PNDSA II ; (4) la
 formulation d'un cadre logique pour le suivi-évaluation des activités et la tenue régulière du comité de
 gestion.

Il faut toutefois noter que la certification des états financiers s'est faite avec des réserves portant
exclusivement sur un déséquilibre de ces états par bailleur. Cela est dû au paramétrage du logiciel utilisé.
Par ailleurs, le taux d'absorption a atteint les 94 % en fin de projet.

La lourdeur des procédures de passation des marchés, la lenteur relative dans la mobilisation des fonds,
principalement celui de la contrepartie nationale et l'irrégularité dans l'approvisionnement financier des
structures d'exécution du projet ont constitué les obstacles majeurs à la mise en oeuvre de la composante
Gestion.

2.2. VOLET RECHERCHE

   2.2.1 Renforcement des capacités institutionnelles
De nombreux textes, manuels de procédures et de décisions ont été préparés, adoptés et appliqués dans
chacun des deux instituts durant la période d'exécution du PNDSA II. Ces textes, même s'ils ne sont pas
encore en application, viennent préciser sur un plan opérationnel, les statuts d'Etablissement Public à
caractère Scientifique, Culturel et Technique (EPSCT) qui donnent une relative autonomie de gestion au
CNRST et aux instituts de recherche qui lui sont rattachés.

Sur le plan du renforcement des capacités de gestion administrative, financière et comptable, les deux
instituts ont, grâce au projet, consolidé leur système de gestion financière et comptable complètement
informatisé. L'IRSAT bénéficie d'une assistance d'un cabinet spécialisé pour l'élaboration des comptes
financiers et comptables.




                                                       - 29 -

 Le logiciel TOMPRO utilisé par la comptabilité de l'INERA depuis le PRA, est actuellement maîtrisé par
l'ensemble des comptables suite à plusieurs formations qui ont été organisées à cet effet. Depuis deux ans
aussi, l'INERA bénéficie de l'assistance d'un cabinet spécialisé pour élaborer et présenter ses mémoires de
gestion financière et comptable. Les comptes ont depuis lors été certifiés par le cabinet d'audit. L'INERA a
fait un effort considérable pour mettre en application les recommandations des auditeurs qui ont permis
d'assainir les problèmes ayant justifié la suspension des décaissements survenue au cours de l'exécution du
projet. Du côté de l'IRSAT les comptes de gestion ont toujours été certifiés. Toutefois, on signale que le
paramétrage du même logiciel TOMPRO n'est pas encore fait jusqu'à présent. Et ce, malgré un contrat
avec un cabinet d'expertise comptable local, partenaire de la compagnie «TOMATE », concepteur de ce
logiciel. De plus, les comptables actuels ne maîtrisent pas suffisamment le logiciel du fait qu'ils n'y ont pas
été formés, ceux qui avaient bénéficié de la formation n'étant plus en fonction à l'IRSAT. A ce niveau
l'objectif n'a pas été atteint.

En ce qui concerne les infrastructures et les équipements, le projet a entrepris de grandes réalisations
(constructions de bâtiments, aménagements des parcelles d'expérimentation, pistes et retenue d'eau etc.) au
siège et dans plusieurs stations de recherche de l'INERA ainsi que pour les deux départements de
l'IRSAT.

En dépit des problèmes rencontrés (retard dans les constructions dus essentiellement à certaines entreprises
défaillantes) on est arrivé à un niveau d'exécution satisfaisant pour l'ensemble des marchés. Ceux des
équipements agricoles, scientifiques et informatiques ont été réalisés.

2.2.2 Développement des capacités

Le PNDSA II a permis de dynamiser les différents départements scientifiques de l'INERA et de l'IRSAT.
Tous les programmes de recherche ont effectivement organisé des commissions de programmation de leurs
activités entre 1998 et 2003 qui leur ont permis de mettre en adéquation les activités prévues avec les
ressources dont on peut disposer et de préciser les méthodologies des recherches. Cette procédure
d'évaluation qui permet aux chercheurs du CNRST de faire examiner leurs programmes d'activités par
leurs pairs des autres structures de recherche scientifique nationales, sous-regionales et internationales est
un gage pour des programmes cohérents et scientifiquement excellents.

Plusieurs activités d'animation scientifique ont été organisées par les coordinations des départements et les
directions respectives des deux instituts au bénéfice des chercheurs et du personnel technique.

Le PNDSA II a contribué au renforcement des capacités de recherche des équipes à travers d'une part de
nouveaux recrutements (40 au total) de chercheurs et personnels de soutien et d'autre part la formation en
vue d'améliorer la qualité opérationnelle des ressources humaines. Cela s'est opéré à travers la mise en
oeuvre d'un plan de formation qui comprenait deux volets : les formations diplômantes ou formations «
longue durée » essentiellement conçues en sandwiche et les formations non diplômantes ou formations «
continues ou de courte durée ».

C'est ainsi que de nombreuses formations non diplômantes ont été organisées pour toutes les catégories
professionnelles dans des domaines divers comme la rédaction scientifique, la rédaction des projets, la
formation en communication et en gestion du temps, l'informatique, etc.
Les chercheurs du CNRST, à l'instar des enseignants des universités, sont évalués sur dossier par les
différents comités techniques spécialisés (CTS) du Conseil Africain et Malgache pour l'Enseignement
Supérieur (CAMES). L'INERA a connu en tout 34 inscrits sur les listes d'aptitude du CAMES pendant la
durée du Projet. L'IRSAT a enregistré 8 inscrits au total. Il faut surtout noter que tous les candidats des


                                                     - 30 -

deux instituts présentés ont été inscrits soit 100 % de réussite.

Un système interne d'évaluation annuelle du personnel scientifique et technique a aussi été mis en place à
partir de 1999 pour permettre d'améliorer la qualité scientifique du travail des chercheurs et un système de
parrainage scientifique devait améliorer l'encadrement des plus jeunes et leur éviter l'isolement scientifique.
Mais à l'exercice, les résultats escomptés n'ont pas été atteints. Cela devrait être revu et corrigé. Quant à
l'évaluation externe, elle été réalisée pour tous les départements de l'IRSAT et de l'INERA.

2.2.3 Les acquis de recherche par domaine
En ce qui concerne l'INERA, environ 300 publications scientifiques ont été produites à l'attention de la
communauté scientifique en général et en particulier celle de notre sous région. De ces résultats
scientifiques publiés, environ 200 fiches techniques, rapports de vulgarisation et autres documents (films,
posters etc...) ont été confectionnés par les chercheurs de l'INERA et mis à la disposition des utilisateurs
des résultats de la recherche. La performance des chercheurs a été réellement accrue dans ce domaine de
valorisation des résultats grâce aux formations reçues et au développement du partenariat scientifique au
cours du PNDSA II. En ce qui concerne l'IRSAT, les résultats sont aussi significatifs avec 15 publications
réalisées, 4 articles soumis. Une thèse de Doctorat a été soutenue et 2 autres avancées, tandis que 4
mémoires de DEA ont été soutenus et 12 technologies ont été mises au point. De ces travaux, ont été 23
communications scientifiques, 15 rapports, 10 fiches techniques, 6 documents audio-visuels, 2 posters et 2
ouvrages.

2.2.4 Développement du partenariat scientifique
         Le partenariat s'est poursuivi à travers l'exécution de projets communs ou d'activités définies dans
le plan stratégique de la recherche scientifique et technologique, la dispense de cours dans les universités et
les maisons de formation professionnelle ou l'accueil d'étudiants en stage de tout niveau académique. Les
deux instituts sont généralement sollicités pour faire les recherches d'accompagnement dans les projets de
développement.

         Le PNDSA II avait prévu une ligne budgétaire pour le développement de la recherche collaborative
avec les autres structures de recherche indirectement concernées par le projet. Les textes devant régir cette
activité ont été élaborés et adoptés. Mais le processus a été de facto suspendu pour cause de suspension des
décaissements en octobre 2000, au moment où on avait fini de faire la sélection des projets envoyés par les
partenaires. La recherche collaborative n'a pas connu d'application après la reprise du projet.

         Le partenariat à l'échelle sous régionale et internationale amorcé depuis plusieurs années s'est aussi
poursuivi et intensifié. Il s'est surtout exprimé à travers les réseaux collaboratifs et des projets exécutés à
la fois par plusieurs systèmes nationaux de recherches agricoles.

         La diversité de ce partenariat permet par exemple à l'INERA de mobiliser en moyenne quelques
sept cent millions (700.000.000) de francs CFA par an (environ 40% du budget de fonctionnement). A
l'IRSAT, ce montant est en moyenne de 235 000 000 de FCFA soit 28% du budget de l'institut. Cela
traduit la bonne collaboration et la confiance réciproque entre les partenaires et ces instituts de recherche.

2.2.5 Renforcement de la liaison Recherche ­ Utilisateurs des résultats
         Durant l'exécution du PNDSA II, l'INERA a organise 3 comités techniques régionaux de recherche
(CTR) : CRREA du Centre en mars 2000, CRREA de l'Ouest en 2002 et CRREA du Nord-Ouest en
décembre 2004. L'IRSAT a organisé 2 journées de démonstration de technologies et réalisé des formations
en technologies alimentaires des techniciens spécialisés et des OP sur la gomme arabique, le lait, le
soumbala, ect.


                                                       - 31 -

        Ces cadres d'échange entre producteurs, chercheurs, vulgarisateurs et décideurs ont constitué de
véritables forums, ayant permis aux utilisateurs d'accéder à de nombreuses technologies proposées par la
recherche agricole.

        Quatre forums nationaux de la recherche scientifique et des innovations technologiques (FRSIT)
ont été organisés durant l'exécution du projet. L'INERA et l'IRSAT y ont toujours participé de façon
remarquable tant dans les stands d'exposition que dans les ateliers scientifiques. En attestent les nombreux
prix obtenus.

         Enfin, les deux instituts ont toujours répondu présents aux différentes manifestations organisées ça
et là pour promouvoir les produits agricoles car ce sont des occasions pour montrer aux producteurs les
nouvelles technologies mises à leur disposition.

2.2.6 Les instances de gouvernance et de concertation
        Le Conseil Scientifique et de Gestion qui se réunit normalement deux fois par an, a été
régulièrement tenu une seule fois chaque année dans chaque institut. Ces sessions uniques ont examiné et
approuvé les rapports d'activités de l'année précédente et les programmes en cours. Des observations et des
propositions pertinentes ont été faites dans le sens d'améliorer la qualité des documents soumis à la sanction
du conseil. Les dispositions ont été prises pour mettre en application les recommandations formulées par le
conseil.

        Il existe un comité de Direction qui permet, une fois tous les trois mois, à la direction d'une part de
développer la concertation entre tous les démembrements des instituts et d'autre part, d'assurer le suivi et
l'évaluation de l'exécution des différentes activités. Ce comité a été tenu régulièrement. Sa composition a
même été élargie aux chefs de programme et aux chefs comptables de l'institut.

        A l'INERA il a été institué un conseil de Centre qui, une fois tous les trois mois doit réunir tous les
responsables relevants d'un même centre pour le suivi-evaluation de l'exécution des activités. C'est un
organe consultatif à la disposition du Chef de Centre pour sa gestion. Cet organe a régulièrement fonctionné
sur les centres et copies des compte-rendus envoyées à la direction de l'institut.

2.2.7 Les impacts du volet Recherche agricole
Les impacts du projet se manifestent surtout à quatre niveaux :

·        amélioration du cadre institutionnel et des mécanismes de liaison avec les partenaires,
·        amélioration du cadre physique d'exécution des programmes de recherche par la réalisation
d'infrastructures et l'acquisition d'équipements,
·        amélioration des compétences des personnels de recherche,
·        amélioration des programmes de recherche.

Les impacts les plus significatifs se manifestent :

  i.     Au plan de l'organisation interne des deux instituts, où le projet a contribué :

§        au renforcement du fonctionnement des instances de gouvernance et de concertation,

§        à la poursuite (en ce qui concerne l'INERA) et a la mise en oeuvre (pour l'IRSAT) de la



                                                     - 32 -

régionalisation des recherches     qui    aura permis non seulement de mieux répondre aux besoins des
utilisateurs (producteurs, ONGs, projets de développement) mais aussi de réaliser des économies d'échelle
dans la gestion, et qui en outre, anticipe sur les effets du processus de décentralisation en cours au Burkina
Faso.

§        à la mise en oeuvre de la structuration des deux instituts en départements dont les coordinations ont
fonctionné avec l'appui du PNDSA II

ii.       Au plan des ressources humaines, où la mise en oeuvre du projet a :

·        permis un renforcement quantitatif significatif des ressources humaines des deux instituts par le
recrutement par résorption progressive de contractuels.

·        financé la formation des chercheurs, des techniciens et du personnel de soutien à la recherche,
ainsi que le personnel de gestion.

iii.     Au niveau des programmes de recherche, où on note que la mise en oeuvre du PNDSA II a eu
un impact très significatif sur :

§        la productivité des chercheurs. Cet impact est surtout lié aux formations qui ont amélioré les
compétences du personnel chercheurs et techniciens.

§        la promotion de chercheurs, celle-ci résultant de l'amélioration quantitative et qualitative des
productions scientifiques.

§        le partenariat scientifique, les instituts disposant de ressources humaines compétentes pour mettre
en oeuvre des recherches en partenariat au niveau national et international,

    Le PNDSA II aura contribué, au côté d'autres sources de financement, au renforcement des capacités
du système national de recherche agricole en général.

III. DURABILITE ­ PERENNISATION

  La pérennisation des actions entreprises et des institutions mises en place

Au terme de l'exécution du PNDSA II, l'analyse des acquis permet d'identifier, à divers niveaux, des axes
d'appui à la pérennisation de certaines actions du projet. En effet, (1) les formations ont eu un impact
positif sur le niveau de technicité des producteurs et des agents. Ces formations, qu'elles soient diplômantes
ou de perfectionnement ont contribué au renforcement d'une expertise nationale dans le domaine de la
recherche et de la vulgarisation. ; (2) les opérations pilotes ont permis aux OP d'acquérir de bonnes
aptitudes dans la formulation et la gestion de leur demande de services agricoles renforçant ainsi leurs
capacités à assurer progressivement leur rôle de maîtrise d'ouvrage de leur développement; (3) les
infrastructures (immobilisations diverses) sont des acquis permanents qui vont assurer de manière pérenne
la promotion des filières agricoles et pastorales et renforcer le cadre technique de la recherche avec
l'acquisition de laboratoires performants ; (4) la privatisation de la profession vétérinaire contribuera à
améliorer de façon durable la qualité et la disponibilité des prestations des services de santé animale ; (5) le
rôle des techniciens spécialisés se poursuit à travers toutes les provinces du pays participant ainsi à la
pérennisation des actions du projet.



                                                       - 33 -

Au plan institutionnel, les Directions Régionales et les Centres Régionaux de Recherche Agricole
demeurent des services permanents de l'Etat. La mise en place des Chambres Régionales d'Agricultures
(CRA) est un renforcement du cadre organisationnel de la profession agricole.

Par ailleurs, l'élaboration de plusieurs documents importants (plan stratégique de la Recherche) et plusieurs
plans d'action (fruits et légumes) ainsi que l'appui aux réformes économiques et institutionnelles comme
celle du coton, permettent d'affirmer que le PNDSA II a contribué au processus de mise en place d'un
environnment favorable au développement rural harmonieux et durable au Burkina Faso.

         Il faut aussi noter la consolidation du cadre institutionnel de la Recherche et le renforcement de
l'organisation technique des instituts concernés (IRSAT, INERA) grâce à l'intervention du projet. Tous
ces acquis en matière de recherche ouvrent des opportunités d'une construction de nouveaux partenariats
scientifiques au plan régional et international. Il faut également ajouter les importants résultats
vulgarisables et la forte contribution à leur présentation au public et aux utilisateurs à travers les
publications et les forums tels le FRSIT.

         Tous ces acquis en matière de durabilité ne doivent pas faire perdre de vue les nombreuses actions
du projet dont la poursuite du financement est hors de porté du Gouvernement. Il s'agit notamment de la
logistique de déplacement et leur fonctionnement adéquat, la formation diplômante des chercheurs et les
équipements scientifiques performants, etc.

IV. PRINCPAUX FACTEURS AYANT INFUENCE L'EXECUTION ET LES RESULTATS DU
PROJET

4.1. Facteurs hors du contrôle du Gouvernement et des agences d'exécution
Le faible niveau des avances initiales des comptes spéciaux du volet Agriculture et Ressources Animales
(compte IDA, Compte Investissements Ruraux) et les longs délais            que nécessitent les réponses aux
demandes de non-objection de la Banque mondiale sur certains dossiers de marchés ont contribué à ralentir
les décaissements. De plus la grande mobilité au sein de la Banque du responsable chargé de la gestion de
PNDSAII n'a pas été un avantage dans le traitement de certains dossiers.

Le conflit ivoirien a entraîné un retour massif de Burkinabé et cette situation a conduit à l'ouverture du
Programme sur des actions nouvelles favorables à l'insertion socio-économique des rapatriés.

D'autres facteurs non moins importants ont été déterminants dans la mise en oeuvre du PNDSAII. On peut
citer entre autres les extensions successives du projet, les réallocations budgétaires et l'augmentation du
niveau des avances initiales des comptes spéciaux.

4.2 Facteurs dépendant du Gouvernement
D'une manière générale, (1) la lourdeur et la complexité des procédures nationales de passation des
marchés et (2) la difficulté de mobiliser la contrepartie nationale au début du projet ont entravé de manière
significative l'exécution du projet.

Au niveau du volet Agriculture et ressources animales, (3) l'adoption d'un document cadre de
restructuration des services agricoles avec la création des Directions Régionales, a permis de clarifier le rôle
des services techniques dans le nouveau paysage institutionnel. Aussi, (4) l'extension de l'expérience
CPCE/OP à toutes les provinces du Burkina Faso a permis un accroissement des activités
d'appui-accompagnement des Organisations Paysannes. Par ailleurs, (5) la réduction des effectifs des


                                                     - 34 -

agents de la vulgarisation et de santé vétérinaire et des frais de fonctionnement des structures d'exécution
ont considérablement réduit les activités de vulgarisation agropastorale. Enfin, (6) la modification du cadre
institutionnel ayant conduit à l'éclatement du Ministère de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales en
deux départements ministériels distincts n'a pas permis l'exécution intégrale du plan de restructuration des
services agricoles qui était conçu pour un Ministère unique.

Au niveau du volet Recherche, (7) la régionalisation (pour tenir compte des conditions spécifiques locales)
fut une bonne chose mais elle a rencontré des problèmes liés à l'insuffisance de moyens de mise en oeuvre,
ce qui a affecté négativement son opérationnalité, (8) Les ratios chercheur/ingénieur (1/1) et
chercheur/techniciens (1/2) n'ont pas été atteints entraînant la non exécution ou le faible taux d'exécution
de certaines activités de recherche.

De manière générale, (9) l'insuffisance des ressources humaines à tous les niveaux et les lourdeurs
constatées dans les procédures de passation des marchés ont eu une influence négative sur l'exécution du
projet.

4.3 Facteurs dépendant des agences d'exécution
En ce qui concerne le volet Recherche, (1) la suspension du projet en 2001 a négativement affecté
l'exécution des programmes de recherche par rapport aux prévisions ; (2) la coordination des programmes
au niveau central a été insuffisante ; (3) les retards accusés dans l'exécution des travaux de génie civil et les
longs délais de livraison des équipements scientifiques ont affecté négativement l'opérationnalité des
différentes structures centrales et régionales. (4) Les difficultés dans la mise en oeuvre de la régionalisation
et les insuffisances dans l'animation scientifique et le fonctionnement des services de la Direction des
Aménagements Pastoraux et du Foncier (DAPF) ont influencé négativement les résultats du projet.

En ce qui concerne le volet Agriculture et Ressources Animales, les contraintes étaient liées (5) aux retards
dans l'approvisionnement financier des structures d'exécution et dans le transfert des fonds aux comptes
des OP.

La communication interne et externe a été largement insuffisante au cours de l'exécution du PNDSAII
notamment en ce qui concerne le volet Agriculture et Ressources Animales. Cette situation a été
dommageable pour le projet car certains responsables nationaux et partenaires n'avaient pas suffisamment
d'informations leur permettant d'apprécier objectivement les résultats pourtant très appréciables du
PNDSAII.



V. ANALYSE CRITIQUE DES PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE ET DE L'EMPRUNTEUR

5.1 Pour la Banque
Préparation du projet
La contribution de la Banque à la préparation du projet a été appréciable. Les différentes actions et
stratégies retenues et acceptées par la Banque correspondaient à la politique globale du Gouvernement.
Toutefois, il n'a pas été établi une situation de référence et la définition d'indicateurs précis permettant la
mise en place d'un mécanisme de suivi-évaluation efficace.

La supervision
D'une manière générale les missions de suivi de la Banque ont contribué à améliorer la qualité des
prestations du projet à travers des conseils pratiques et des recommandations utiles. Cependant ces missions
doivent faire l'objet d'une meilleure préparation avec l'élaboration de termes de références précis.


                                                       - 35 -

De plus, pour ce qui concerne le volet recherche, l'absence de spécialistes en agroalimentaire et en
mécanisation dans les équipes de supervision n'a pas permis d'assurer à l'IRSAT un appui-conseil
conséquent dans ces domaines.

Performance globale de la banque
La performance globale de la Banque a été satisfaisante, notamment en terme de consolidation des outils de
gestion financière, de réorientation vers l'approche de contractualisation des services agricoles et les
conseils et recommandations pratiques issus des missions de supervision et de la revue à mi-parcours.

5.2 Pour l'emprunteur

Préparation du projet
La concertation élargie organisée par le gouvernement, a permis une implication de tous les acteurs à
l'élaboration du Programme du PNDSAII. L'élaboration a été faite en tenant compte des leçons tirées du
PRSAP, du PRA et des principales orientations du Gouvernement (Document d'Orientation Stratégique,
Plan Stratégique de la Recherche Scientifique et Technologique et le Processus de Décentralisation).
Cependant, au niveau du volet recherche, l'inexistence juridique de l'IRSAT pendant la préparation du
projet n'a pas permis de prendre en compte toutes les préoccupations.

Performance du Gouvernement dans la mise en oeuvre
La performance du gouvernement dans la mise en oeuvre du PNDSAII est satisfaisante, car il y a eu une
volonté manifeste pour l'atteinte des objectifs du projet. Cela s'est traduit entre autres, par l'appui constant
du Gouvernement aux agences d'exécution dans la mise en oeuvre des recommandations des missions de
supervision. Cependant le fonctionnement insuffisant du comité de pilotage du PNDSAII n'a pas permis de
meilleures orientations pour améliorer la conduite des activités du projet. De même les difficultés liées à la
mobilisation de la contre partie nationale au projet ont été des obstacles à l'exécution optimale des actions
du projet.

Agences et structures d'exécution
Les audits des comptes du projet ont tous été certifiés et les DRF ont été approuvés par la Banque. Cela
confirme les efforts consentis par les agences d'exécution du projet. Cependant des insuffisances
organisationnelles et techniques ont été constatées dans la gestion globale du projet se traduisant par des
certifications avec des réserves au niveau de certains aspects des audits et la suspension d'une année du
volet Recherche (INERA). De plus, le suivi efficient des indicateurs de cadre logique n'a pu être réalisé
avec le maximum d'efficacité.

Performance globale de l'emprunteur
Au terme de la mise en oeuvre du projet le taux de mobilisation de la contre partie nationale a atteint près de
82 %. Les différentes recommandations des missions de supervision ont été constamment exécutées. C'est
pourquoi malgré les insuffisances constatées et au regard des efforts régulièrement déployés pour les
corriger, on peut affirmer que la performance globale de l'emprunteur dans la mise en oeuvre du projet a été
satisfaisante. Toutefois, des insuffisances notables ont été constatées dans la coordination des actions
notamment au niveau de la Recherche et dans les mécanismes de suivi-évaluation des programmes. De plus,
la préparation insuffisante des missions de supervision a été relevée.




                                                    - 36 -

VI. EVALUATION DE L'EXECUTION FINANCIERE DU PROJET

6.1 coûts prévus ­ coûts réalisés

6.1.1 Crédit IDA (en DTS)

Rubriques       Génie civil      Fournitures      Etudes        et Fonctionnement      Dons D1 et Total
                                 Equipements      Formations                           D3
Prévu           3 991 662        6 101 330        6 740 293        9 992 442           4 740 000     31 565 727
Décaissé        3 619 843        5 758 805        6 341 092        9 240 843           4 752 355     29 712 938
    Taux de          90,7%            94,4%            94,1%             92,5%            100,3%        94,1%
 décaissement



6.1.2 Contre partie Nationale (en FCFA)
Volets                    Agriculture -Ressources Animales        Recherche                             Total
Prévu                     1 989 272 000                           1 700 159 000                 3 689 431 000
Décaissé                  1 847 626 750                           1 184 062 500                 3 031 689 250
Taux de décaissement      92,9%                                   69,6%                        82,17

Globalement les taux de décaissement enregistrés s'établissent comme suit :
Crédit IDA : 94%
Contre partie : 82%

6.2 Passation des marchés
Textes de références
National : Décret n° 2003-269/269/PRES/PM/MFB du 27 mai 2003 et arrêtés de mise en application
Banque mondiale : Directives Passation des marchés financés par les prêts de la BIRD et les Crédits de
l'IDA de janvier 1995 et différentes mises à jour.

Modalités
Les activités se déroulent sur la base d'un plan de passation du marché établi et actualisé chaque année
lors du bilan /programmation et parfois à l'occasion de certaines missions de supervision. Le processus de
la passation des marchés comprend plusieurs étapes clés (TDR, NON OBJECTION, PRESELECTION,
NON OBJECTION, DOSSIER D'APPEL D'OFFRE (DAO), NON OBJECTION, PUBLICATION,
EVALUATION DES OFFRES, PV SELECTION, NON OBJECTION, NOTIFICATION, NEGOCIATION,
CONTRAT, MARCHE, AVIS, ENREGISTREMENT, ORDRE DE SERVICE, DEMARRAGE, SUIVI,
CONTRÔLE, PAIEMEMENT DECOMPTES, RECEPTION PROVISOIRE, RECEPTION DEFINITIVE.)
Résultats
L'ensemble des marchés du PNDSAII depuis son démarrage jusqu'au 31/12/2004 se présente ainsi qu'il
suit :
  - Volet Agriculture ­Ressources Animales : 42 marchés pour un montant de 4.132.541.308 FCFA
  - Volet Recherche : L'INERA : 42 marchés pour un montant de 4.040.492.153.710 FCFA et l'IRSAT :
28 marchés pour un montant de 1 293 061298 FCF ; soit au total 112 marchés pour un montant de 9 466
094 759 FCFA.




                                                   - 37 -

Difficultés
- TDR pas très précis, d'où certaines lacunes dans les dossiers d'appel d'offres et leur évaluation
- Longs délais pour la transmission des dossiers et courrier, la signature des contrats et marchés et
l'obtention des non-objections de la Banque.
- Maîtrise insuffisante de tous les détails des nombreuses procédures.
- Disponibilité pas toujours assurée des membres des commissions d'attribution et de réception des
marchés, vue les nombreux cas à traiter.
- Défaillance de certains entrepreneurs ou prestataires qui handicap les réalisations prévues.

  VII. ENSEIGNEMENTS

  La mise en oeuvre du PNDSAII a été une occasion privilégiée de tirer de nombreux enseignements fort
  utiles pour les actions et programmes futurs du Gouvernement. Ils portent sur plusieurs points dont les
  plus importants sont :

   (i) Le niveau trop élevé de la contre partie nationale et son affectation systématique sous forme de
  pourcentage à la quasi-totalité des différentes catégories de dépenses constituent un handicap important à
  la bonne exécution des projets. Il convient donc que pour les projets futurs, les contreparties nationales
  soient négociées autrement aussi dans sa forme que dans sa mise en oeuvre ;

  (ii) Tout nouveau programme doit baser son action sur une situation de référence sur laquelle un système
  formalisé et efficace de suivi - évaluation sera bâti avec des indicateurs précis qui seront périodiquement
  mesurés ;

  (iii) Le succès des programmes de vulgarisation est fortement lié à l'efficacité des fonctions (actions)
  d'approvisionnement en intrants et équipements des producteurs, de commercialisation et de
  transformation des produits agricoles. En effet, les investissements agricoles et la valorisation des
  connaissances techniques et technologiques sont intimement liés. Aussi, ces fonctions doivent-elles être
  assurées avec efficacité pour garantir le succès des actions de vulgarisation ;

  (iv) La flexibilité dans la programmation des activités doit être intégrée dans la méthodologie de la mise
  en oeuvre des projets ayant pour ambition d'accompagner les OPA dans leur apprentissage de la maîtrise
  d'ouvrage ;

  (v) Le test de contractualisation des services agricoles a montré un bon niveau de capacité au sein des OP.
  Cependant il a besoin d'un renforcement conséquent pour permettre à celles-ci de jouer pleinement leur
  rôle de maîtres d'ouvrage du développement local ;

  (vi) Le recentrage des missions de l'Etat et son désengagement des fonctions concurrentielles doivent être
  sous-tendus par des stratégies et des programmes conséquents de transfert de compétences afin de
  permettre au secteur privé et aux OPA de prendre efficacement la relève de celui-ci ;

  (vii) La communication est extrêmement importante pour résorber certaines contraintes dans l'exécution
  des projets. Elle a constitué un point d'insuffisance au niveau du PNDSA II. Il est donc impérieux que
  tout projet ou programme, surtout de l'envergure du PNDSA II, puisse être doté d'une stratégie de
  communication interne et externe et bénéficié à temps plein des services d'un spécialiste dans ce domaine;




                                                     - 38 -

(viii) L'influence du comité du pilotage sur l'exécution du PNDSA II a été très faible alors qu'il pouvait
et devrait jouer un rôle important. De cette expérience négative qui semble être le cas dans de nombreux
projets, nous pensons qu'il est urgent que des dispositions soient désormais prises pour une meilleure
définition des missions et responsabilités des organes de pilotage et que des mesures idoines soient prises
pour leur participation effective à la vie des projets ;

(ix) La mise en place d'un cadre organisationnel approprié et consensuel est essentielle dans le succès de
la mise en oeuvre des projets et programmes de développement. En effet le positionnement du CNRST et
sa mission dans le schéma de mise en oeuvre du volet Recherche du PNDSA II n'ont pas donné les
résultats attendus du fait des insuffisances de ce cadrage institutionnel ;

(x) Les missions de supervision de la Banque mondiale et les revues à mi-parcours sont extrêmement
importantes pour le succès des programmes. Aussi, est-il hautement souhaitable que ces actions
connaissent une préparation très sérieuse au cours de l'exécution des futurs programmes.




                                                    - 39 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 28674

                                                                               4°                                                                              2°                                                              0°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M A U R I TA N I A
                                                            BURKINA FASO                                                                                                                                                  M A L I
 SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Area of map

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M A L I
                                      DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                Béli                                                                                                       NIGER

        PHASE 2 DU PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BURKINA FASO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ouagadougou
                                DES SERVICES AGRICOLES                                                                                                                                                                    Markoye
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GUINEA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BENIN
                                                                                                                                                                                     S A H E L                                                                                                                             NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Gorom-Gorom                                                                                          TOGO

                                                       50                                   150            200                                                                                                                                                                         C Ô T E        GHANA
                                0                                        100                                                                           600                                                                                                                         D ' I V O I R E

                                                          KILOMETERS / KILOMETRES                                                                                                                          S A H E L                                                LIBERIA

                                                                                                                                                                          Djibo                                                                                                                               G u l f o f
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Katchari         DORI                   600
14°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To Gotheye                                                   G u i n e a
                                                                                                           To Mopti                                                                                                                                         14°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ATLANTIC OCEAN
         This map was produced by the
         Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
         The boundaries, colors, denominations
         and any other information shown on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2°
                                                                                                                                             OUAHIGOUYA
         this map do not imply, on the part of
         The World Bank Group, any judgment                                                                                                                                                 Barsalogho                                                                                                    Niger
         on the legal status of any territory, or                                              600                                                             Séguénéga
         any endorsement or acceptance of                                                                                                                                     Kongoussi
         such boundaries.

                                                                                                     Di                                         Gourcy
                                                                       Djibasso                                                                                                          KAYA                                                                                                        N I G E R
                                                                                                      Tougan
                                                     To San                                                                        C E N T R A L                      P L A T E A U                                                                                           Goroubi
                                                                                                                                                    Yako                                                                  Bogandé
                   M A L I
                                                    900                                                                                                                                                                                                                           600
                                                                         Nouna                                        Toma         P L A T E A U                   C E N T R A L                                                                                                            Niamey
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Boulsa                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                  Boussé                                                       Sirba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E A S T E R N S AVA N N A H
                                                                                                                                                                                    Ziniaré
                                                                                                  DÉDOUGOU                                                                                                                                                                           Kantchari
                                                                                   Noire                                             Réo                     Kamboinse
                                                                                                                                                                        l  l      Gampela                Zorgho
                                  To Koutiala                                                                                                   KOUDOUGOUl           l        OUAGADOUGOU
                                                                                                                            Tenado             l   l  l   l   l
                                                                                                                                                             Saria                          Volta                                                                         Tapoa
                                                                                                                                             l
                                   900                                                                                                                                                                   KOUPELA                               FADA
                                                                                                                                          l                                                                                                 N'GOURMA
12°                                                                         Volta                                                      l                          Saponé           Kombissiri                                                                                                  Diapaga
                                                                                                                                    l                                                             Blanche
                                                                                                                                 l                                                                                             Kouaré                                                                                   12°
                                                                                                                            l                                                                                                                                                                              900
                                                                                                                     l
                                                                                                                 l                                                                                                                            S AVA N E O R I E N T A L E
                                                                                                          l   l
                                  Niena                                                                l                                                                     Volta
                                                                                                 l  l    Boromo                                                                                                   Tenkodogo
                                                                                              l                                                                                             Manga
                                                       S O U T H W E S T                   l

                                                                                        l                                  Noire
                                                                                     l

                                                                                  lHoundé                                                                                               Rouge
                                                                              l                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pendjari
                                                                           l
                                                                        l                                             Volta
                                                                      l

                                   BOBO-DIOULASSO                  l                                                                                                                     Po
To Sikasso                                                                                                                                                                                                 Zabré                               Pama
                                   Farako-ba                                                                                                                                                                                                                                900
                                                                l                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B E N I N
                                                              l                                                                                          Léo
                                                           l
                                    Orodara              l                               DIÉBOUGOU
                                                                                                                                                     G        H     A      N      A                                To Bawku
                                                      l                                                                                                                       900
                                                  l                                                                                                                                 To Navrongo                                                               To Natitingou
                                            l                                                                                                               To Tumu                                                                   T O G O            Oti

                          BANFORA         l                                                                                       900
                                         l                             S U D - O U E S T                                                                   REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CENTERS                               ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS (AVERAGE ANNUAL RAINFALL)
                                                                                                                                                           CENTRES REGIONAL DE RECHERCHES AGRICOLES                             ISOHYETS EN MILLIMETRES (QUANTITE MOYENNE DE PLUIE ANNUEL)
                                        l
                                                                                                                                                           INERA AND IRBET HEADQUARTERS                                         ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS (RAINFALL, ONE YEAR IN FIVE)
                                      l
                                                                                                                                                           INERA ET IRSAT SIEGES                                                ISOHYETS EN MILLIMETRES (QUANTITE DE PLUIE UNE ANNEE SUE SUR CINQ)
                                     l                                                                                                                     AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING CENTER                            PAVED ROADS
                                  l
                                    Niangoloko                                                             Gaoua                                           CENTRE DE RECHERCHES AGRICOLES ET DE FORMATION                       ROUTES BITUMEES
                                l
                             l                                                                                                                             SUBSTATION                                                           UNPAVED ROADS (NATIONAL, PRIMARY, SECONDARY) - ALL WEATHER USE
                                                                                                                                                           SOUS-STATION                                                         ROUTES NON-BITUMEES (NATIONALES, PRIMAIRES, SECONDAIRES) - USAGE TOUTES SAISONS
             1200
                                                                                                                                                           NORTHERN LIMIT FOR GROUNDNUT CULTIVATION                             UNPAVED ROADS (PRIMARY AND SECONDARY) - INTERMITTENT USE
10°              To Abidjan
                                                                                                                                  1200                     LIMITE DU NORD DE LA CULTURE D'ARACHIDE                              ROUTES NON-BITUMEES (PRIMAIRES ET SECONDAIRES) - USAGE INTERMITTENT                     10°

                                               Komoe                                                                                                       NORTHERN LIMIT OF COTTON CULTIVATION                      l   l   l  RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                           LIMITE DU NORD CULTURE DU COTON                                      CHEMINS DE FERS
                                                                                                                                                           NORTHERN LIMIT OF MAIZE CULTIVATION                                  RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                           LIMITE DU NORD DE LA CULTURE DU MAIS                                 FLEUVES
                                                                                                                                                           NORTHERN LIMIT OF SOYBEAN CULTIVATION                                REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION (ORD) CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                           LIMITE DU NORD DE LA CULTURE DU SOJA                                 SIEGE DE L'ORGANISME REGIONAL DE DEVELOPPEMENT (ORD)
                                                                                                                                                           NORTHERN LIMIT OF YAM CULTIVATION                                    REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION (ORD) BOUNDARIES
                        C Ô T E                     D ' I V O I R E                                                                                        LIMITE DU NORD DE LA CULTURE D'IGNAME                                LIMITES DES ORGANISMES REGIONAUX DE DEVELOPPEMENT (ORD)
                                                                                                                                                           AGRICULTURAL ZONES                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                           ZONES AGRICOLES                                                      FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
                                                                          4°                                                                                 2°                                                                0°                                                                    2°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   APRIL 1997

                                                                       4°W                                                 2°W                                                               0°                                           2°E   This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                        OUDALAN                                                                 the part of The World Bank

                                                                                                              M A L I                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
                                              BURKINA FASO                                                                                                                        Gorom                                                         boundaries.
                                                                                                                                              SOUM                                Gorom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N I G E R
                                                                                                               LOROUM                   Djibo
                                                                                                                                                                                              Dori

                                                                               To                                                                                                                                                                                        14°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                              Mopti                                   a                                                                   SÉNO
                                                                                                                                                                                          SÉNO                            Niamey
                                                                                                    YATENGA     n  g        Titao                                                                                                  Niger
                                                                                                            t e
                                                                                                     a              Ouahigouya    BAM          SANMATENGA                                               Sebba
                                                                                                   Y                              Kongoussi                                                             YAGHA                                                To
                                                 To                                                                                                                                                                                                          Dosso
                                                 San                                        SOUROU                    Gourcy
                                                                                                               ZONDOMA                                                                  GNAGNA
                                                                          KOSSI        Tougan                                                  Kaya                                                       Sirba
                            To                                                                                         Yako
                            Ségou                                                                                                                                       NAMENTENGA
                                                                                                                               KOURE-                                                      Bogandé
                                                                                                                                                                                           Bogandé      KOMONDJARI
                                                                           Nouna                    Toma         PASSORÉ
                                                                                                                  ASSORÉ
                                                                                                                              WÉOGO
                                                                                                                              WÉOGO
                                                                                            NAYALA                               Boussé
                                                                                                                                 Boussé OUBRITENGA
                                                                                                                                                                                  Boulsa                Gayéri
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Gayéri
                                                                                                                                                Ziniaré
                                                                                                                                                Ziniaré                                                          Goroubi
                                                                                      Dédougou
                                                                                      Dédougou                         OUAGADOUGOU
                                                                                                                                                     GANZOURGOU
                                                             BANWA              MOUHOUN                      Réo
                                                                                                             Réo   Koudougou       KADIOGO                                                                                           a
                                                           Solenzo                                                                                                                                                             r m
                                                                                                                 BOULKIEMDÉ
                                                                                                                 BOULKIEMDÉ                                                                          Fada         G     o  u
                                                                                                                                                                                                     N'Gourma                           Diapaga
                          12°N                                                                     SANGUIÉ
                                                                                                   SANGUIÉ                                                                                                                    TAPOA
                                                                                                                                           BAZÉGA
                                                                                                                                           BAZÉGA    Volta Blanche
                                                                                                                                                                Zorgo                  Koupéla
                                                                                                                                                                                       Koupéla

                                                                                                                                   Kombissiri                           KOURITENGA

                                                                   Noire                                                           Volta                                                          GOURMA                                                                 12°N


                                                                                           Boromo                                              ZOUNDW
                                                                                                                                               ZOUNDWÉOGOTenkodogo
                                                                                                                              ZIRO       Rouge
                                                                                                                                                        Manga       BOULGOU                KOULPÉLOGO
                                                                                                                                                                                           KOULPÉLOGO
                                        KÉNÉDOUGOU
                                        KÉNÉDOUGOU            Volta                           BALÉ
                                                                                              BALÉ
                                                                                                                          Sapouy
                                                                           Houndé
                                                                           Houndé                                                                                                              Ouargaye   KOMPIENGA
                                                           HOUET                                                                                         ÉOGO
                                                                                 TUI                                                     NAOURI                                                               Pama
                                                                                                Dano           SISSILI
                                                              Bobo-                                                        LLéo
                                                                                                                             éo                 Po                                                                              B E N I N
                BougounioT                     Orodara        Dioulasso                       IOBA

                                                                                Diébougou
                                                                                Diébougou                                                                                                                                To                    To
              TTéna Kourou
               éna                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Djougou               Parakou
                            (747 m)     Sindou                               BOUGOURIBA

                                                  Banfora
                                  LLÉRABA
                                    ÉRABA                                          PONI                                                                                                                             BURKINA FASO
                                                          KOMOÉ
                                                          KOMOÉ                     Gaoua                                                                          To                                    To
                                                       é                                                                                                           Tamale                                Sokidé
                                                                                                      VoltaN                                                                                                                     PROVINCE CAPITALS
                          10°N                       Komo
                                                                                           NOUMBIEL oire                                     G H A N A                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                               Batié
                                                                                               Batié
                                                                                                                  To                                                                                TOGO                         RIVERS
                                                                                                                  Bole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                       0   20   40   60    80 100 Kilometers
SEPTEMBER                                      C Ô T E D ' I V O I R E                                                                                                                                                           RAILROADS                                      IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                         To                                                                            0      20       40     60      80 Miles                                                                                                                      33379
                                        Bouaké                                          To
         2004                                                                      Koutouba                                                                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                       4°W                                                 2°W                                                               0°

