Page  1
May 8, 1998
H.E. Tertius Zongo 
Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso
Excellency:
Credit No. 2974 BUR (Second National Agricultural Services 
Development
Project) Waiver of Effectiveness Condition/ Amendment 
to the Development Credit Agreement
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the "Agreement") dated 
December 15, 1997, between Burkina Faso (the Borrower) and the International 
Development Association (the Association).  As you know, the above-referenced Project 
is due to become effective on May 14, 1998.  It has recently come to our attention 
that the effectiveness condition referred to in Section 6.01. (d) of the Agreement 
(relating to the employment of independent auditors) might delay project 
effectiveness.  In order not to unduly delay the Project effectiveness, we would 
propose to waive the effectiveness condition referred to in Section 6.01. (d) and 
instead provide for a dated covenant dealing with the employment of independent 
auditors.  It is of course understood that all other effectiveness conditions referred 
to in Section 6.01. will have to be met before May 14, 1998 for the Project to become 
effective.
We are pleased to confirm, therefore, our consent to amend the Agreement as 
follows:
1.
Section 6.01 (d) is deleted and Section 6.01 (e) is renumbered Section 6.01 (d).
2.
A new paragraph is added at the end of Part I of Schedule 4:
"9.
The Borrower shall, no later than November 30, 1998, employ the 
independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement."
If you agree with the foregoing amendments, please sign and date this letter in 
the spaces provided below. This amendment letter shall be executed in two 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original. Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.
The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date the 
Association receives one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hasan Tuluy 
Country Director for Burkina Faso 
Africa Region
AGREED:
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Tertius Zongo
Authorized Representative
Date:
May 12, 1998
Page  2
