Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2974 BUR
Development Credit Agreement
(Second National Agricultural Services Development Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 15, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2974 BUR 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 1997, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated April 21, 1997 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve 
the delivery of agricultural services to farmers (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, or (c) at any time, the Association determines, with respect to 
any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of 
a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, 
the Association determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures 
set 
forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and establishes 
the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) 
after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  
Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Beneficiary" means a farmer group to whom a Grant (as hereinafter 
defined) is made or proposed to be made; 
(b)
"CFAF" means Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine, the currency of 
the Borrower; 
(c)
"CNRST" means Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique et 
Technologique, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 96-400, 
dated December 13, 1996; 
(d)
"CRPA" means Centre Régional de Promotion Agro-Pastorale, the Borrower's 
regional center for agro-pastoral promotion; 
(e)
"CU" means the Coordination Unit, established by the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Agriculture and Animal Resources pursuant to the Borrower's Ministerial Decree No. 
92-0114/AGRI-RA, dated April 3, 1992; 
(f)
"DPCLR" means MAGRI’s Direction de la Promotion Coopérative et de la 
Législation Rurale;
(g)
"DPIA" means MRA's Direction des Productions et des Industries Animales; 
(h)
"DSV" means MRA's Direction des Services Vétérinaires; 
(i)
"Financing Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between MAGRI 
Page  3
and a Beneficiary for the purposes of carrying out a Subproject; 
(j)
"Grant" means a grant made, or to be made, by MAGRI out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, to a Beneficiary to finance eligible expenditures incurred in respect 
of a Subproject under Parts D.1 and D.3 of the Project; 
(k)
"INERA" means the Borrower’s Institut de l’Environnement et de Recherches 
Agricoles established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 96-400, dated December 13, 
1996, and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Arrêté No. 97-040/MESSRS, dated April 
25, 1997; 
(l)
"IRSAT" means Institut de Recherche en Sciences Appliquées et de 
Technologie established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 96-400, dated 
December 13, 1996, and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Arrêté No. 97-041/MESSRS, 
dated April 25, 1997; 
(m)
"LNE" means the Borrower’s Laboratoire Nationale d’Elevage established 
pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 97-044/PRES/PM/AGRI-RA, dated February 5, 1997;
(n)
"MAGRI" means Ministère de l'Agriculture, the Borrower's ministry 
responsible for agriculture; 
(o)
"MESSRS" means Ministère des Enseignements Secondaires Supérieurs et de 
la Recherche Scientifique, the Borrower's ministry responsible for secondary and 
higher education and scientific research; 
(p)
"MRA" means Ministère des Ressources Animales, the Borrower's ministry 
responsible for animal resources; 
(q)
"Project Account" means either or all of the accounts referred to in 
Section 3.02 of this Agreement; 
(r)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 
6.01 (a) of this Agreement and setting out, inter alia, procurement and disbursement 
procedures, performance indicators and other administrative, financial and 
organizational arrangements for the implementation of the Project, including 
procedures and guidelines for the administration, promotion, appraisal and supervision 
of Subprojects, to be followed by MAGRI in carrying out Parts D.1 and D.3 of the 
Project; 
(s)
"Special Account" means either or all of the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(t)
"Steering Committee" means the interministerial committee established by 
the Borrower's Arrêté Conjoint No. 97/00010/MF/AGRI-RA/MESSRS, dated May 13, 1997, for 
the purpose of coordination of the execution of the Project; and 
(u)
"Subproject" means a specific activity under Parts D.1 and D.3 of the 
Project, which complies with the eligibility criteria specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual, Part II of Schedule 4 to this  Agreement, financed, or proposed 
to be financed, through Grants extended made under Parts D.1 and D.3 of the Project.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 30,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (other than Parts D.1 and D.3 thereof) and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit;. and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association 
shall so agree, to be paid) by MAGRI on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of 
a Beneficiary under a Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for a Subproject to be financed under Parts D.1 and D.3 of the Project, and in respect 
of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower may: (i) for the purposes of Parts B, C, D and E of the 
Project, open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account (Special Account A for 
MAGRI and MRA); (ii) for the purposes of Parts A.1 and A.3 of the Project, open and 
maintain in CFAF a special deposit account (Special Account B for INERA); and (iii) 
for the purposes of Part A.2 of the Project, open and maintain in CFAF a special 
deposit account (Special Account C for IRSAT), all in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each respective 
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 15 and November 15, commencing November 15, 2007 and ending May 15, 2037.  
Each installment to, and including the installment payable on, May 15, 2017 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
Page  5
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts B, C, D and E of the Project and Part A of the Project through CNRST, all with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, environmental, technical and agricultural practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall cause CNRST to carry out Part A of the Project, and shall carry out Parts B, C, 
D, and E of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open, and thereafter maintain until the completion of the Project, an 
account for Parts B, C, D and E of the Project, to be operated and maintained by MAGRI 
(the MAGRI and MRA Project Account), an account for Parts A.1 and A.3 of the Project, 
to be operated and maintained by INERA (the INERA Project Account), and an account for 
Part A.2 of the Project, to be operated and maintained by IRSAT (the IRSAT Project 
Account), all in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association and on terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association;
(b)
deposit an initial contribution of:  (i) CFAF 100,000,000 (CFAF one 
hundred million) into the MAGRI and MRA Project Account, (ii) CFAF 55,000,000 (CFAF 
fifty-five million) into the INERA Project Account, and (iii) CFAF 6,000,000 (CFAF six 
million) into the IRSAT Project Account;
(c)
thereafter, replenish any of said accounts at least on a semiannual 
basis, up to the amount of the initial contribution, or whenever its balance shall be 
less than the equivalent of CFAF 40,000,000 (CFAF forty million) for the MAGRI and MRA 
Project Account, CFAF 22,000,000 (CFAF twenty-two million) for the INERA Project 
Account and CFAF 3,000,000 (CFAF three million) for the IRSAT Project Account; and
(d)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Accounts in accordance with 
paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be used exclusively to finance the Borrower’s share 
of  expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit. Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the continued achievement of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Page  6
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Accounts, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
(i) the Borrower has finalized and adopted the Project Implementation 
Manual; (ii) MESSRS, through CNRST, has adopted a manual setting out procedures and 
guidelines for financial control and external audits and has furnished to the 
Association a draft manual setting out procedures for the evaluation of researchers, 
in form and substance acceptable to the Association; (iii) MESSRS, through CNRST, has 
adopted a manual of procedures regarding the approval, monitoring and evaluation 
process, in form and substance acceptable to the Association; and (iv) INERA and IRSAT 
Page  7
have adopted an internal management manual, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association an environmental analysis 
of the probable effects of the Project, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association;
(c)
the Borrower has adopted regulations, in form and substance acceptable to 
the Association to:  (i) require full recovery for veterinary services provided by its 
public sector that veterinary services provided by the Borrower's public sector are 
charged at full cost to recipients of such services, and (ii) regulate subcontracting 
(mandat sanitaire) of its livestock services to private sector service providers; 
(d)
the Borrower has employed the independent auditors referred to in Section 
4.01 (b) of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement; and
(e)
the Project Accounts referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement 
have been duly opened, and the Borrower has made the initial deposits referred to in 
Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement paragraph (b) thereof. 
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and fifty (150) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this Agreement 
[and the provisions of paragraphs shall cease and determine on the date on which the 
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date ten yearsafter the date of 
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Le Ministre Chargé des Finances
Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances
03 BP 7050
Ouagadougou 03 / Burkina Faso
Cable address: 
Telex:
5555
5555
SEGEGOUV
SEGEGOUV
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BURKINA FASO
Page  8
By /s/ Bruno N. Zidouemba 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works for:
100% of foreign
expenditures and
95% of local
expenditures
(a)
MAGRI
    40,000
(b)
MRA
   250,000
(c)
INERA
 1,830,000
(d)
IRSAT
   140,000
(2)
Goods for:
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(a)
MAGRI
3,030,000
(b)
MRA
  350,000
(c)
INERA
1,250,000
(d)
IRSAT
  450,000
(3)
Grants under Parts
1,900,000
80%
D.1 and D.3 of the
Project
(4)
Training,
100%
Consultants' services
and studies for:
(a)
MAGRI
2,980,000
(b)
MRA
  320,000
(c)
INERA
2,350,000
(d)
IRSAR
  290,000
(5)
Incremental operating
75%
costs for:
(a)
MAGRI
6,000,000
(b)
MRA
  680,000
(c)
INERA
4,600,000
(d)
IRSAT
  140,000
Page  9
(6)
Unallocated
3,700,000
TOTAL
     30,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs and research and 
laboratory supplies, as well as temporary labor relating to research activities, but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)
payments made, or to be made, in respect of expenditures set forth in 
Categories 1 (c), 2 (c), 3 (c), 4 (c) and 5 (c) of the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule relating to Part A.2 until the Borrower has furnished evidence acceptable to 
the Association showing that IRSAT has established an accounting and financing system, 
in form and substance acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
in respect of a Grant, unless the Grant has been provided in accordance 
with the procedures, and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to, in this 
Agreement and the Project Implementation Manual.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (i) works 
and goods and consultants' services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 
equivalent; (ii) training and operating costs; (iii) consultant's services 
(individuals) for contracts not exceeding $20,000 equivalent; and for Grants not 
exceeding $50,000 equivalent per Grant, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to reduce rural poverty by increasing small 
farmers’ production through provision of essential agricultural services and 
strengthening of the link between agricultural research, farmer organizations and 
extension services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Agricultural Research 
1.
(a)
Strengthening technical and managerial capacities of INERA to carry out 
priority agricultural research programs, in collaboration with farmer organizations, 
including research programs in forestry, and fruit and vegetable production, through 
the carrying out of civil works, the acquisition of equipment, agricultural inputs, 
teaching materials, the provision of technical advisory services, and training.
(b)
Construction or rehabilitation of physical infrastructure, as well as 
improvement of experimentation plots at Kamboinse, Saria, Farakoba, Dori-Katchari, 
Di-Tougan, Fada-Kouare and Niangoloko. 
2.
Strengthening the technical, managerial and operational capacities of IRSAT to 
Page  10
carry out priority agricultural research programs, including research programs in 
agroprocessing and agricultural mechanization, through the carrying out of civil 
works, the acquisition of equipment, the provision of technical advisory services and 
training. 
3.
Strengthening the technical, managerial and operational capacities of CNRST, 
through the acquisition of equipment, the provision of technical advisory services and 
the carrying out of joint research activities with universities and other research and 
training institutes. 
Part B:
Agricultural and Livestock Extension 
1.
Improving the delivery of the Borrower’s agricultural extension services for 
rainfed and irrigated crops, livestock production and natural resource management, 
through the acquisition of equipment, the provision of technical advisory services and 
training. 
2.
Implementation of programs designed to improve women’s access to extension 
services, including information, communication, literacy and numeracy programs, and 
operation of economic units, through the acquisition of equipment, the provision of 
technical advisory services and training.
Part C:
Animal Health and Pastoralist Promotion 
1.
(a)
Ppromoting private sector participation in the animal health sector to 
improve the quality of animal health services delivery and strengthening the 
Borrower’s legislative and regulatory  framework on animal health, through provision 
of technical advisory services and training; and 
(b) strengthening the technical, managerial and operational capacities of DPIA, 
DSV and the national laboratories (virology, bacteriology, parasitology and 
epidemiology), and four of LNE’s regional laboratories, to carry out more effective 
animal sanitary control, through the acquisition of equipment and vehicles, the 
provision of technical advisory services and training. 
2.
(a)
Eestablishment and operation of a mobile specialized unit within MRA to 
provide relevant information to transhumant pastoralist producers, through the 
acquisition of equipment, the provision of technical advisory services and training; 
and 
(b) establishment and operation of a small unit within MRA to provide advisory 
services to peri-urban livestock producers, through the acquisition of equipment, the 
provision of technical advisory services and training.
Part D:
Pilot Participation Programs 
1.
Implementation of pilot programs, and provision of Grants for the financing 
thereof, to strengthen the technical, managerial and operational capacities of the 
farmer organizations to provide agricultural services to their members, through the 
acquisition of equipment and vehicles, the provision of technical advisory services 
and training. 
2.
Strengthening the capacity of DPCLR to carry out information and communication 
activities and to prepare legislative and regulatory reforms aimed at creating an 
enabling environment for the development of farmers’ organizations, through the 
acquisition of equipment, the provision of technical advisory services and training. 
3.
Implementation of a two-year pilot program to test the aptitude of farmer 
organizations to conduct rainfed water control and soil conservation activities, 
including promotion, appraisal, designing, supervision, and evaluation of 
farmer-initiated projects  activities, and provision of Grants for the financing 
thereof, for the construction of small dams (boulis), village wells and latrines.
Part E:
Institutional Strengthening 
Restructuring of MAGRI and CRPAs to improve its their efficiency and economy, 
through the provision of technical advisory services and training.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
Page  11
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works and goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for works and goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestic contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Community Participation 
Goods and works required for Parts D.1 and D.3 of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$3,000,000 equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with procedures set forth in 
the Implementation Manual and acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for works, and for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  12
(b)
With respect to each contract, except for Part D.3, for goods estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and 
(ii)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 
(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants' services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The shortlist of consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$20,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for small contracts, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for contracts to be implemented, estimated to cost less than $20,000 
equivalent per contract for individual consultants and $50,000 equivalent per contract 
for consulting firms, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for technical and professional support under the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract for individual consultants and $50,000 
equivalent per contract for consulting firms, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for consultants and other contractual staff employed in Project 
implementation for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
Page  13
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the terms of 
reference, the qualifications, experience and terms of employment of the consultants 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after said approval shall have been given. With respect to any such 
consultant contract estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000, the terms 
of reference for employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association 
for its review, promptly upon receipt, except for contracts under Parts D.1 and D.3 of 
the Agreement, for which such terms of reference of employment shall be furnished to 
the Association for its information. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
Part I: 
General 
1.
Under the overall supervision of the Steering Committee, (a) the CU shall be 
responsible for the coordination of the execution of Parts B, C, D and E of the 
Project; and (b) MESSRS, through CNRST, shall be responsible for the coordination of 
the execution of Part A of the Project. For this purpose, the CU shall employ 
competent staff in adequate numbers, including (i) a Project coordinator, who shall be 
the head of the CU, (ii) a financial manager, and (iii) a procurement specialist, to 
be responsible for the planning, coordination, supervision and monitoring of 
activities of the Project, all with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Association and in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that the positions of Director and Deputy Director of 
INERA and IRSAT shall, at all times during the execution of the Project, be kept 
filled by persons having qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association.
3.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare and transmit to the Association a Project Implementation Manual, 
acceptable to the Association, setting out, inter alia, procurement and disbursement 
procedures, performance indicators and other administrative, financial and 
organizational arrangements for the implementation of the Project, including 
procedures, and guidelines for the administration, promotion,  appraisal, and 
supervision of Subprojects, to be followed by MARA in carrying out Parts D.3 of the 
Project;
(b)
 carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in the 
Project Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in 
Page  14
the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of 
the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than November 30 of each year, undertake, in conjunction with 
the Association, MAGRI, MRA, MESSRS, CNRST and farmer organization representatives, a 
joint annual review of the Project, during which they shall exchange views generally 
on all matters relating to the progress of the Project and the performance by the 
Borrower, MAGRI, MRA and MESSRS, through CNRST, of their respective obligations under 
this Agreement, including: 
(i)
a review of the progress achieved by the Borrower, MAGRI, MRA and 
MESSRS, through CNRST, in the implementation of the Project, 
having regard to the performance indicators referred to in 
paragraphs 4 (a) of this Schedule;
(ii)
a review of the proposed work plans and budget for the forthcoming 
fiscal year; 
(iii)
a review of the public expenditure program for the agriculture 
sector, including the adequacy of budgetary support provided under 
the Project during the current year and proposed budgetary 
allocations for the forthcoming fiscal year; and
(iv)
the performance of Beneficiaries in the implementation of the 
Subprojects under Parts D.1 and D.3;
(c)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project and giving details of 
the various matters to be discussed at such review; and
(d)
following each annual review, undertake to act promptly and diligently in 
order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted 
in the implementation of the Project or to implement such other measures as may have 
been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
5.
(a) 
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31 of each year, submit to 
the Association, for review and approval, proposed annual work plans and budget for 
the forthcoming fiscal year, including details of proposed budgetary allocations and 
disbursement estimates and, proposed procurement activities.
(b)
The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for review:
(i)
not later than one month after the end of each quarter, quarterly 
progress reports on the status of the Project; and
(ii)
reports as needed on the award of contracts under the Project. 
6.
For purposes of civil works under the Project, the Borrower shall take adequate 
steps to ensure that such works shall be undertaken with due regard to the need for 
adequate safeguards for the protection of the environment and that adequate provisions 
to that effect are included in the relevant works contracts.
7.
The Borrower shall cause MESSRS, through CNRST, to:  (i) adopt, no later than 
December 31, 1998, an annual evaluation and promotion of researchers’ system based on 
criteria which encourage development research and compensate the best performers 
amongst all research personnel; and (ii) recruit progressively, out of the permanent 
budget of CNRST, the contractual personnel financed by the Association during the 
first year of the Project, as follows:  33% of the total amount of such salaries in 
the second year, 66% of the total amount of such salaries in the third year and 100% 
in the fourth year.
8.
The Borrower shall cause MAGRI and MRA to:  (i) adopt a reorganization plan 
satisfactory to the Association and thereafter redeploy personnel and organize related 
personnel transfers,pursuant to the terms of its reorganization plan, before  in 
Page  15
accordance with such plan by June 30, 1998, such arrangements to include separation of 
the control and advice functions at the level of field agents and unification of the 
available livestock personnel into the national extension system, based on annual 
action plans for each province; (ii) not later than April 30, 1998, submit to the 
Association a report by independent auditors, acceptable to the Association, relating 
to the liquidation of the assets and liabilities of the ex-CRPAs; (iii) liquidate the 
assets and liabilities of the ex-CRPAs not later than April 30, 1999; (iv) carry out a 
study to assess the feasibility of transforming LNE into an independent administrative 
entity no later than December 31, 1998; and (v) introduce payment for specialized 
peri-urban advisory services not later than December 31, 1999.
Part II:
Parts D.1 and D.3 of the Project 
1.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 3 above, no Subproject shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless the CU verifies 
that the Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and in more 
detail in the Project Iimplementation Manual, which shall include, inter alia, the 
following:
(a)
the Subproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary;
(b)
the Subproject shall be financially and technically viable, and 
environmentally sound, in accordance with and meet the standards specified in the 
Project Implementation Manual;
(c)
the Beneficiary shall provide at least 20% of the estimated Subproject 
costs in the form of cash, materials, labor or other services;
(d)
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection; and
(e)
Subprojects involving involuntary resettlement of population shall not be 
eligible for financing under the Project, unless an action plan for the resettlement 
of the affected population, satisfactory to the Association, has been agreed upon with 
the concerned population. 
2.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Subprojects
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Financing Agreements, to be 
concluded between MAGRI and the Beneficiary, under terms and conditions set forth in 
the Project Implementation Manual and satisfactory to the Association, which, inter 
alia, shall include the following:
(a)
financing to be on a grant basis;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
environmental, technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(d)
the right of MAGRI to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works sites, plants and 
construction included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents;
(e)
the right of MAGRI to obtain all information as MAGRI or the Association 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and financial 
conditions of the Subproject; and 
(f)
the right of MAGRI to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary 
to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject upon failure by the Beneficiary 
to perform any of its obligations under its Financing Agreement, such failure to be 
determined by external audits carried out in accordance with the procedures set forth 
Page  16
in the Implementation Manual.  \0c
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of Special Account A 
for MAGRI and MRA, Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; in the case of Special Account B for 
INERA, Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the said table; and in the case 
of Special Account C for IRSAT, Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the said 
table; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and amounts paid, or to 
be paid, in respect of Grants and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of Special Account A for MAGRI and MRA, to 
CFAF 600 million; in the case of Special Account B for INERA, to CFAF 400 million; and 
in the case of Special Account C for IRSAT, to CFAF 100 million; provided, however, 
that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for: (i) 
Special Account A for MAGRI and MRA shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
CFAF 300 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts B, C, D and E 
of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of CFAF 6.6 billion; (ii) 
Special Account B for INERA shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 200 
million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A.1 and A.3 of the 
Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of CFAF 4.5 billion; and (iii) 
Special Account C for IRSAT shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 50 
million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A.2 of the Project shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of CFAF 500 million. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Accounts 
shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Accounts of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Accounts such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Accounts, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Accounts at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Accounts such amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
Page  17
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Accounts for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Accounts, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Accounts, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Parts of the Project related to 
that Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation for that Special Account.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
for that Special Account shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Accounts as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Accounts (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  18
