Page  1
H.E. Tertius Zongo
September 15, 1998
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso
Excellency:
Credit No. 2974 (Second National Agricultural Services  Development Project)
Amendment of Development Credit Agreement
(Increase in Authorized Allocation/Sub-account)
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement), dated December 15, 
1997, for the above-mentioned Project between Burkina Faso (the Borrower) and the 
International Development Association (the Association) and to your letter, dated June 29, 1998 
in which you requested us to amend the Agreement in order to (i) increase the Authorized 
Allocation of Special Account A from CFAF 600 million to CFAF 700 million; and (ii) to create 
a
sub-account under Special Account A for the financing of the proceeds of the Credit under Part 
D of the Project.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association accedes to your request and agrees, 
accordingly, to amend the Agreement as follows (with changes indicated in bold):
1.
A new definition is added at the end of Section 1.01, as follows:
(v)
“Sub-Account” means the sub-account referred to in Section 2.02. (c) of this 
Agreement.
2.
A new subsection is added at the end of Section 2.02, as follows:
(c)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of carrying out Part D of the Project, 
open and maintain in CFAF, under Special Account A for MAGRI and MRA, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Section 4.01. (b) (i) is amended to read as follows:
(i)    
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
including those for the Special Accounts, 
and the Sub-Account,
 for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently                   applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  2
4.
Schedule 5 is amended to read as in the Annex to this amendment letter.
All provisions of the Agreement, except as amended herein, shall remain in full force and 
effect.
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating the 
confirmation form on the attached copy of this letter and returning it to us, while keeping the 
original for your records.
This amendment will become effective as of the date of confirmation of this letter.
Sincerely,
/s/ Florent Agueh
Florent Agueh
Acting Country Director for Burkina Faso
Africa Region
Attachment
AGREED:
BURKINA FASO
By:
/s/ Tertius Zongo
Authorized Representative
Date:
October 23, 1998
ANNEX
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means, in the case of Special Account A for 
MAGRI and MRA, Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; in the case of Special Account B for INERA, Categories (1), (2), 
Page  3
(3) and (4) set forth in the said table; and in the case of Special Account C for IRSAT, Categories 
(1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the said table; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and amounts paid, or to be paid, in respect of 
Grants and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, equivalent, in the case of Special Account A for MAGRI and MRA, to CFAF 
700 
million
;
in the case of Special Account B for INERA, to CFAF 400 million; and in the case of 
Special Account C for IRSAT, to CFAF 100 million; provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for: 
(i)
Special Account A for MAGRI and MRA shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to 
CFAF 300 million until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account 
plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts B, C, D and E 
of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of CFAF 6.6 billion; 
(ii)
Special Account B for INERA shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
CFAF 200 
million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A.1 and A.3 of the Project shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of CFAF 4.5 billion; and 
(iii)
 Special Account C for IRSAT shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
CFAF 50 
million 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A.2 of the Project shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of CFAF 500 million. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Accounts shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Accounts of an amount 
Page  4
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis 
of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Accounts such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Accounts, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the respective Special 
Accounts at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the 
Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. 
On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Accounts 
such amounts as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the  respective Special 
Accounts for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Accounts 
or out of 
the Sub-Account
,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Accounts 
and the Sub-Account
; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
Page  5
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Accounts, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Parts of the Project related to that Special Account, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation for that Special Account.  Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
allocated to the eligible Categories for that Special Account shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Accounts 
or the Sub-Account
 as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account 
or the Sub-Account
:
(i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Accounts (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account 
or the Sub-Account
 will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to 
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts 
or the Sub-Account
. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
