Documei
The Worln
FOR OFFICIAL
C>i'Z 3S7-èCAM
Report No. 9894-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
NOVEMBER 15, 1991
Environment, Human Resources and
Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQLIVALENTS
(as of September 1, 1991)
Currency Name - Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit  -  Yuan (Y)  - 100 Fen
Y1.00 - $0.19
$1.00 - Y5.33
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
g              -    gram (0.035 ounce)
kg             -   kilogram (2.2 pounds)
km             -   kilometer (0.6 mile)
km2                  square kilometer (0.38 square mile)
m 2            -    square meters (1.2 square yards)
mA             -   milliampere
ppm            -   parts per million
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AES            -   Anti-Epidemic Station
AIDS           -   Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
AFB            -   Acid-fast bacteria
AST            -   Anti-Schistosomiasis Station
BCG            -    Bacille Calmette-Guerin
DEDC           -   Department of Endemic Disease Control of the MOPH
EPI            -    Expanded Program of Immunization
FLO            -    Foreign Loan Office of the MOPH
HIV            -   Human Immune Deficiency Virus
ICB            -    International Competitive Bidding
INSTRIMPEX     -   China National Instruments Import and Export
Corporation
IUATLD         -    International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung
Disease
LCB            -   Local Competitive Bidding
MCH            -   Maternal and Child Health
MMR            -   Mass Miniature Radiography
MOF            -   Ministry of Finance
MOPH           -   Ministry of Public Health
NTCRC          -   National Tuberculosis Control and Research Center
NTP            -   National Tuberculosis Program
PTP            -    Provincial Tuberculosis Program
SAA            -    State Audit Administration of China
SCC            -    Short Course Chemotherapy
SOE            -    Statements of Expenditure
SPC            -    State Planning Commission
STD            -    Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TCC            -   Tuberculosis Control Center
TPO            -   Tuberculosis Project Office (of the MOPH)
TDR            -    Special Programme for Research and Training in
Tropical Diseases
UNDP           -   United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF         -   United Nations International Children's Emergency
Fund
WHO            -   World Health Oraanization



Vm U.. r tAAL UbtL Ci L-
CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMM.IARY
Borrower:      People's Republic of China.
Beng.ficiarie: 12 provinces for tuberculosis; 8 provinces for schistosomiasis
and the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH).
Amount:         SDR 95.9 million (US$129.6 million).
Terms:          Standard, with 35-year maturity.
Onlending       The Go-ernment would onlend SDR 94.42 million to the project
Terms:         provinc3s at no interest, repayable over 20 years, including a
10-year grace period. The provinces would assume the foreign
exchange risk for credit proceeds disbursed for forei-n
expenditures and the Ministry of Finance would assume the risk
for proceeds disbursed for local expenditures. The provinces
would pay a commitment fee of 0.5 percent p.a. and a service
charge of 1 percent p.a. to the Ministry of Finance. SDR 1.48
million would be made available to the Ministry of Public
Health under arrangements which are substantially the same as
a budgetary transfer.
Prolect        The project would support the Borrower's national tuberculosis
DescriRtion:   control program in selected provinces and the main parts of
the national schistosomiasis control program. A. Support to
the tuberculosis control program will consist of the following
sub-components in 12 provinces during the period 1992-1998:
1. Tuberculosis Control through a) expansion, improvement and
free provision of tuberculosis diagnostic services; b) free
provision of anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy to reduce the
sources of infection; c) improvement of case management by
adoption of a revised standard tuberculosis registry,
reporting forms and supervisory protocol; and 2. Institutional
Strengtheninz through d) strengthening infectious disease
control capacity by establishing a nationaL Tuberculosis
Project Office and Tuberculosis Control Center; e)
reorganizing and upgrading provincial tuberculosis programs;
f) implementing a Tuberculosis Policy Package of
administrative, technical and financial reforms to improve the
systems by which the tuberculosis dispensaries in
participating provincial programs are financed and managed;
and g) operational research on management, economic, social
and epidemiological factors to improve tuberculosis control
and preparation of future health programs.
B. Sumport to the national schistosomiasis control erozram
(1992-1996) would consist of the following sub-components in
eight provinces, constituting the main elements of the
Borrower's Eighth Five Year Plan for schistosomiasis control
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
to be carried crut in accordance with an agreed Schistosomiasis
Policy Statement: 1. Schistosomiasis Control through a) case
identification and treatment of infected individuals by mass-
and selective- chemotherapy; b) identification and treatment
of infected animals; and, c) snail control by mollasciciding
and environmental control; and, 2. Institutional Strengthening
through d) strengthening schistosomiasis control program
offices and institutes; e) improvement of the surveillance
system; f) improvement of the monitoring and evaluation
systems; and g) undertaking studies, through a Joint Research
Management Committee, of management, economic, social and
epidemiological factors to improve schistosomiasis control in
different settings in China and preparation of future health
programs.
C. The project would also support a program of research into
alternatives for improving surveillance and control of other
key infectious diseases, including (i) sexually transmitted
diseases and human immune deficiency virus sl-veillance, and
(ii) epidemiological studies of all types of hepatitis and
operational research on effective control of hepatitis B virus
through immunization.
Benefits:       For tuberculosis, the project would sharply increase the cure
rate of initially-treated, smear-positive patients in
participating provinces from less than 50 percent to over 90
percent, and improve the case detection rate from about 35
percent to 70 percent. As a net result of the project, over 1
million people can be expected to be saved from premature
death due to tuberculosis and a similar number of new
infectious cases will be prevented. Patients, their families
and communities will directly benefit from avoidance of
illness costs, disability, death and preservation of
productive capacity. In addition, because of the greatly
reduced risk of infection resulting from the project there
will be a long-term benefit after the project from the
avoidance annually for the next several decades of about
100,000 premature deaths and a similar number of new
infectious cases.
For schistosomiasis, the project would: (a) decrease the
prevalence of infection in the population in endemic areas by
40 percent, reducing the number of patients from about 1.5
million in 1989 to approximately 0.9 million in 1996; (b)
decrease the prevalence of infection in cattle and water
buffalo by 40 percent, reducing the number of infected animals
from 200,000 in 1989 to about 120,000 in 1996; and (c)
decrease the snail infection rate and the density of infected
snails in the high transmission areas, thus reducing the
transmission of infection. This would reduce the incidence of
acute and advanced cases, most of which occur among working
adults (aged 20 to 60 years), thereby producing direct
economic benefits, mainly in poor rural areas. Disease



- iii -
prevalence will be brought down to a level at which an
affordable maintenance strategy would be appropriate.
Risks:         For tuberculosis, the main risk is that provincial and lower
level tuberculosis programs will persist with old technical
practices and patterns of emphasizing case finding, rather
than stressing successful completion of traatment. This may
happen: (a) if financial policy changes introduced by the
project are not fully implemented and past policies continue
to adversely influence the tuberculosis program; and (b) if
new anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy, diagnosis and registration
protocols are not effectively adopted. Commitment by project
provinces to financial and technical policy changes have been
required by MOPH as a condition of participation in the
project and will help to guard against these risks. In
addition, careful supervision of the program by MOPH with
frequent (quarterly) reporting by provinces of actual program
results will allow targeted assistance and supervision to
manage slippage in adoption of the Tuberculosis Policy
package.
The major risks for the schistosomiasis component are that
further prevalence reductions in areas of very low prevalence
may be difficult to achieve, and the strategy of morbidity
control through chemotherapy may requf" e time to fully
implement as it requires changes in co' :rol measures and staff
practices, and increased cooperation vf the population in
endemic areas. To counter these risks, the project includes a
substantial program of operational research to identify
appropriate changes in technical approaches at the local level
and increased attention to program monitoring and
surveillarce. To encourage greater participation of the
population in chemotherapy, attention would be given to
improved, nationally coordinated health education programs
targeted at specific risk groups such as farmers, fishermen,
people living on boats, and school children. Rapid
application of the revised chemotherapy strategies to
populations and areas subjected to disease risk as a result of
floods and climatic changes will provide the best protection
against new infection outbreaks and in newly endemic areas.
The strategy is expected to be implemented flexibly, so as to
remain responsi-- to locally changing disease and
epidemiologica'    '4tions.



- iv -
Est mated Costs:                               Local          Foreign         Total
----       (US$ million)----------
TB Control Prozram                        62.7            5.5            68.2
TB Institutional Strenzthening            29.1            5.2             34.3
Schisto - Control Program                 99.7            8.7           108.4
Schisto Institutional Strengthening   32.7                4.3            37.0
Central Project Sub-component              2.8            1.2             4.0
Base Costs                               227.0           24.9           251.9
Physical Contingency                       2.3            0.2             2.5
Price Contingency                         15.6            1.1            16.6
Total Project Cost g/                 244.8          26.2            271.0
Financing Plan:                                Local         Foreign          Total
----------(US$ million)----------
Provincial Governments                   138.7            0.5           139.2
Central Government                         1.9            0.3              2.2
IDA                                      104.3           25.3           129.6
Total                                 244.8          26.2            271.0
Estimated Dlsbursements:
IDA FY       1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   1997    1998    1999
-------------------------(US$ million)---------------------
Annual            3.9      19.4    31.1    31.1    15.6    15.6    10.4    2.6
Cumulative        3.9      23.3    54.4    85.5   101.1   116.6   127.0  129.6
Rate of Return:    Not Applicable
&/ Project-financed goods are _xempt from import duties and taxes.
Note: All values are rounded and totals may not add exactly.



-v -
DEFINITIONS
Incidence rate:                Number of persons contracting a disease as a
proportion of the population at risk, per unit
of time. Usually expressed per 1,000 or per
100,000 persons per year.
Prevalence rate:               Total number of all individuals who have a
disease at a particular time (or during a
particular period) per population at risk of
having the disease. Usually expressed per 1000
or per 100,000 persons per year.
Active case detection.         Surveillance activities in which the
schistosomiasis or tuberculosis services
actively search for new disease cases through
screening examinations (stool or serological
examination for schistosomiasis; radiographic
or bacteriologic examination for tuberculosis).
Passive case detection:        The surveillance activities in which the public
health and medical services, including the
regularly constituted tuberculosis and
schistosomiasis control staff, detect new
disease cases among the population who present
with symptomatic complaints.
Short course chemotherapy:    Tuberculosis treatment regimens of less than 10
months duration which contain the drug
rifamRicin.
Smear-positive patient:        A tuberculosis patient with at least two acid
fast bacilli (AFB) smear-positive sputum
specimens by microscopy, or, with one sputum
specimen positive for AFB and radiographic
abnormalities consistent with active pulmonary
tuberculosis.
Smear-negative patient:        A tuberculosis patient with radiographic
abnormalities consistent with active pulmonary
tuberculosis, at least three negative sputum
examinations, and decision by a physician to
treat with a full curative course of anti-
tuberculosis chemotherapy.
Note: Other definitions relevant to tuberculosis management consistent with
the detailed strategy for the proposed project are contained in Technical
Protocol I of Annex 5 to this report.



- vi -
CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   i
I.     THE  HEALTH   SECTOR  .  .  .  .  .   .   .  .  .   .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  1
II.   TUBERCULOSIS IN CHINA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
A.  Background and Present Situation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
B.  Current Issues in the Tuberculosis Control Program . . . . .  3
III.   SCHISTOSOMIASIS IN CHINA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
A.  Background and Present Situation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
B.    Results  Achieved   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   10
C.  Current Issues in the Schistosomiasis Program  . . . . . . . 11
IV.    GOVERNEMENT STRATEGY AND BANK ROLE IN PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . 15
V. THE PROJECT .........  20
A.  Project  Strategy   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    20
B.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
C.  Detailed Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Tuberculosis Control  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Institutional Strengthening - Tuberculosis  . . . . . . . 26
Schistosomiasis Control . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Institutional Strengthening -Schistosomiasis . . . . . . 30
Central Project Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
VI.    PROJECT COSTS AND TINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
A. Costs .34
B.  Financing  Plan   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    35
VII.   ORCANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTITION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
A.  Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
B.  Procurement   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    41
C.    Disbursements  .  .  .   .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .   45
D.  Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
China in June 1991. Appraisal team members included Mr. R. Bumgarner (Task
Manager and Principal Operations Officer), Ms. Laura Kiang (Operations
Analyst), Mr. P. Sachdeva (Consultant), Dr. Peter Jordan (Consultant), Dr. K.
Styblo (WHO), Dr. S. Spinaci (WHO), Dr. J. Quinley (Consultant). The Peer
Reviewers were Mr. J. Hammer (Health Economist, PHRHN), Ms. L. Keough (AS5CO),
Dr. M. Young (EMTPH), Dr. S. Scheyer (ASTPH). The Division Chief is Mr. Zafer
Ecevit (AS3EH). The Department Director is Mr. Shahid Javed Burki (AS3DR).



- vii -
VIII,  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  47
A.   Benefits    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  47
B.   Risks  .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  47
IX.    A3REEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
TALE
6.1  Estimated Pzoject Cost By Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
6.2  Summary Froject Cost by Expenditure Category . . . . . . . . .    39
6.3  Financing   Plan   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  40
7.1  Summary of Procurement Arrangements   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
1.  Tuberculosis   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    51
2.  The Tuberculosis Dispensary System Costs and Financing . . . . . 64
3.  Tuberculosis Policy Package:  General Poli.ies and Technical
Protocols to Strengthen and Rationalize TuEerculosis Control
Services in Provinces Participating in the Infectious and
Endemic Disease Control Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
4.  Schistosomiasis in China . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
5. Schistosomiasis Control Organizations, Planning and
Implementation in China . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
6. Schistosomiasis Policy Statement; Policies to Strengthen and
Rationalize Schistosomiasis Control Services  . . . . . . . . . 121
7.  Schistosomiasis Surveillance System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
8.  Operatioual Research for Control of Schistosomiasis  . . . . . . 128
9.  Other Infectious Diseases  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
10.  Project Cost Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136
11.  Summary Project Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 142
12.  Disbursement Schedule  . . . .  . . . . . . . .                      145
13. Implementation Schedule and Estimated Annual Contractual and
Other   Payments   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  146
14. Schistosomiasis Component Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators . 147
15.  Estimated Numbers of Vehicles Needed by Component and
Province    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   155
16.  Project Supervision Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 159
17.  Selected Documents and Data Availeble in the Project File  .  . 162



CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
I. THEI iEALTH SECTOR
1.1       Background.  China's health status achievements have been far
better than what could be expected at its stage of economic development. They
were firmly founded on a broad, publicly-financed disease prevention strategy,
coupled with accessible primary health care. By the early 1980s the major
challenges for the future were clearly seen to be completion of the first
health care revolution againsv infectious disease and initiation of a second
health care revolution to prevent excess levels of chronic disease, disability
and death in the health transition. The Bank's sector report entitled "China,
Long Term Issues and Options in the Health Transition", (report 7965-CHA),
dated June 25, 1990, explores these challenges and their implications in
detaill/.
1.2       During the last decade it has become increasingly clear that only
limited progress has been made in completing the most urgent aspects of the
first health care revolution. Immunization coverage is up and immunizable
childhood disease deaths have been falling. However, infant mortality has
remained above 40/1000 live births for the last decade and maternal mortality
is now recognized to be much higher than previously reported levels (now
estimated at 90/100,000). More importantly, progress against the broad range
of infectious and endemic diseases may have been less robust than hoped for.
Much of the population, particularly in rural areas, is still at risk, or
suffers unacceptably high levels, of some infectious and encemic diseases. The
chief public health priority for this part of the population is to complete
the first health care revolution.
1.3       Against this background the government and IDA in mid-1990
initiated preparation of a project to address two of the key infectious
disease problems -- tuberculosis and schistosomiasis -- on which progress had
stagnated, which still accounted for large numbers of unnecessary deaths cr
avoidable morbidity, and which put very large numbers of people at risk.
These preparatory efforts included examination of how the health financing
system affected the two disease programs. This was done in response to sector
study findings that sectoral development problems may have been contributed
to, if not caused by, reforms in health financing strategy in the 1980s.
These reforms decentralized most responsibility for health financing and
required emphasis on cost recovery from health system users, even for basic
1/   Details of health sector organization, financing, epidemiological
trenrd, hospitals, manpower and technological resources are reviewed in
detail in the health sector report. The MOPH is responsible for overall
health policy and its implementation, supervision of disease prevention,
medical education, and coordination among institutions in the health
sector. The structure of the MOPH is mirrored at the provincial level
in the public health bureau which, with health bureaus at subsidiary
administrative levels, bears primary responsibility for financing,
providing and supervising health services.



-2 -
preventive services with widespread public welfare benefits. As a result, in
many areas preventive services have changed in technical content, or have not
been available to some segments of the population. Sharpening the impact of
tlese changes among the poor has been uneven economic growth, an overall
relative reduction of public funding for health and an increased reliance on
revenue generation as a substitute for budgetary subsidies in most health
service institutions.
1.4       Today, as a consequence of the financial policy changes, most
health institutions face fixed cost deficits and must earn income sufficient
to cover these and to provide operational funds for any new programs needing
to be undertaken. This situation has encouraged provision of more diagnostic
and therapeutic services aimed at insured, primarily urban, resiuents. Health
education and disease prevention activities, and poorer and remote
populations, have been relatively neglected in the patterns of spending which
have emerged. Implementation of China's long-standing policy of "prevention
first" has been hampered by the natural tendency for health service
institutions, even in rural areas, to be oriented to treatment of diseases in
response to patient demand, particularly when these institutions are faced
with an operating deficit and pressures to collect fees from patient services.
This situation has adversely affected tuberculosis and schistosomiasis
programs as described in sections II and III below.
II. TUBERCULOSIS IN CHINA
2.1       The disease of tuberculosis and the technical aspects and potential
for control are described in Annex 1, Parts A and B. At present an estimated
6 million Chinese have active pulmonary tuberculosis and it is the most
important single cause of premature adult mortality. Much of the population
over age 20 has been infected with the bacillus and total tuberculosis deaths
have averaged about 360,000 annually for the last decade (380,000 deaths in
1989).
A. Background and Present Situation.
2.2       China had very high rates of mortality due to tuberculosis before
1909, with highest rates in cities. Early tuberculosis programs were
hospital-oriented, strongest in the cities, made use of the early antibiotics
and contributed, along with improved living conditionsZl and nutritionV/, to
lowering overall death rates from tuberculosis, especially in urban areas.
The Cultural Revolution (1965-1976) led to the dismantling of specialized
tuberculosis institutions at most levels. Tuberculosis treatment was still
available at general health service institutions, but treatment was not
standardized and cases were not systematically registered and followed to
2/   Which helped to reduce the rate of infection of persons living with
tuberculosis patients before they were diagnosed.
3/   Which helped to improve the body's natural immune response to combat
tuberculosis when infections did occur.



ensure cure. During this period, declines in incidence of tuberculosis slowed
or reversed in most areas.
2.3       In the 1980s a National Tuberculosis Program (NTP) was re-
established with standards for treatment and reporting which represented best
available approacbhs as of the late 1970s.  The organizational structure of
the programs and functions of the various units are described in Annex 1.
Provincial Tuberculosis Programs (PTPs) were encouraged, but not required, to
meet national program guidelines. Little central funding was provided to
influence program content at provincial and lower levels. As a result, PTPs
show a wide range of approaches and standards in almost every feature of
tuberculosis control. After the financial reforms implemented in the mid-
1980s the costs of tuberculosis treatment effectively became the
responsibility of the patient, or his insurer, and treatment largely became a
consequence of ability to pay. 'The financing system for tuberculosis services
and its impact on the dispensary system and disease control is described in
Annex 2.
2.4       During the decade, urban areas with large numbers of insured
persons and good access to medical care services generally experienced
reductions in disease rates consistent with improved chemotherapy. Overall,
however, only about half the provinces showed modest decreases and half
experienced stagnation or increases in prevalence. Total prevalence is
estimated at 560/100,000 with smear positive prevalence of 156/100,000 (rural)
and 92/100,00" (urban). A reasonable estimate of incidence would be about
75/100,000 (ru.al) and less than 50/100,000 (urban), with wide variations
among provinces, much higher rates in poor rural areas and much lower rates in
the large cities with good tuberculosis control programs.
B.  Current Issues in the Tuberculosis Control Program
2.5       Institutional Issues.  Both the NTP and National Tuberculosis
Control and Research Center (NTCRC) have been inadequately funded and staffed
for even minimal supervision of the national program. The mandate of the NTP
has been unclear. Complex administrative affiliationsA/ of the NTCRC have
distracted the efforts of staff and have impeded effective and consist_nt
program dissemination and strong national leadership for the NTP. The
independence of the provincial tuberculosis control programs has led to long
delays and inconsistency in implementing improved control programs, especially
as the MOPH has had no effective budgetary or policy levers with w7hich to
influence rapid, consistent adoption of modern, short-course, supervisee
chemotherapy programs which ensure high rates of cure.
2.6       Provincial Tuberculosis Program Issues.  Within provinces,
tuberculosis institutions that are able to generate much of their own income
tend to become independent of supervision and guidance. When inappropriate
4/   Described in Annex 1.



- 4 -
practices are noted 5', the PTP lacks authority to mandate change in the
practices of lower level institutions.
2.7       General hospitals sometimes treat tuberculosis outpatients without
registering them at the dispensary and there is no PTP supervision of the
treatment regimen which these patients receive. Patients who cannot afford to
complete treatment initiated in a hospital inpatient or outpatient setting are
not likely to transfer themselves to a dispensary. As they return to the
community they often become a highly infectious additional source of disease.
2.8       Specialized tuberculosis hospitals and general hospitals with a
tuberculosis service are poorly linked to the tuberculosis dispensary network.
Unnecessary admissions and prolonged lengths of stay are common due to
financial incentives to keep all beds full. Most of the tuberculosis
hospitals are sluggish or remiss in reporting the newly detected cases to the
tuberculosis registry maintained at each dispensary. Patients discharged from
the tuberculosis hospitals are seldom registered by the tuberculosis
dispensaries for continuation of treatment, largely due to financial barriers.
Outpatient departments of tuberculosis hospitals often neglect proper case
management to ensure cure. Moreover, the completion rate of treatment at many
of these departments is lower than at the tuberculosis dispensaries.
2.9       Some provincial or prefectural (city) dispensaries share the campus
of the tuberculosis hospitals at the same administrative level. These
dispensaries are dependent on the hospitals for both allocations of budget and
staff. Mixture of directorships and staff between tuberculosis dispensaries
and hospitals at provincial and prefectural levels usually leads to the
neglect of the supervision, quality control, and training work for lower level
programs, in favor of a clinical and inpatient work, particularly because of
the financial rewards to these pursuits.
2.10      County dispensaries receive inadequate supervision from the PTP.
Supervision which does occur often fails to focus on raising basic diagnostic
skills and thus perpetuates misdiagnosis and over-diagnosis. Present
supervisory practices also do not address the failure of the present program
to cure a high percentage of patients diagnosed. Case-finding targets, rather
than cure-rate, targets tend to be inappropriately emphasized in supervisory
visits by PTP officials. Lastly, the system of PTP financing leads to
inappropriate staffing patterns and revenue generating behavior with little
influence exercised by the PTP, as further described below.
2.11      Tuberculosis Program Finance Issues.  There are no special budgets
allocated to tuberculosis dispensaries by the central or most provincial
governments. The budget for tuberculosis control is therefore largely
dependent on the sympathetic understanding of local leaders and is severely
limited by the financial capability of most local governments, particularly
rural counties. This leads to wide variations in staffing, equipment,
ß/   e.g. tendencies to perform unnecessary tests or prescribe excessive,
expensive drugs because of the profit accruing to the hospital or
dispensary.



facilities and program orientation in tuberculosis dispensaries. Poorer
counties usually have higher tuberculosis rates but much less capability to
meet the costs of a good control program.
2.12      Because parts of their own salaries, bonuses, welfare and
retirement benefits, and even housing, are dependent on dispensary income, the
dispensary staff have financial incentive to prescribe unnecessarily long or
intense chemotherapy regimens, to use non-standard crugs intravenously6', to
purchase and utilize diagnostic equipment, and to schedule excessive and
frequent laboratory examinations. They also have incentive to unnecessarily
stress case-finding through mass radiologic screening in factories, GCC
immunizations, or other activities which generate income or budget subsidies,
even while cure rates are unacceptably low (less than 50 percent of detected
smear-positive patients can be documented to have converted to smear-negative
status after initiating chemotherapy). Activities which do not generate
income, such as supervision visits or training of lower level personnel and
patient education, may be neglected.
2.13      For uninsured patients, the high cost of treatment for tuberculosis
leads many to either never start treatment2' or to discontinue treatment once
symptoms have disappeared, but before cure has been achieved. This accounts
for the high rates of previously treated smear-positive patients and high
rates of drug resistance found in the national surveys. Even among those who
are able to pay, treatment often imposes a substantial, sometimes long-term,
hardship, arising from large debts to pay for treatment.
2.14      Case-finding Issues.  Good practice calls for tuberculosis cases to
be initially diagnosed among patients who come to general health services with
symptoms suggestive of tuberculosis.81 In principle, China's widespread
network of village, township, and county clinics and hospitals makes basic
health services accessible to nearly the entire population. Successful
passive case-finding should therefore mainly depend on the ability of primary
health workers to recognize symptoms compatible with tuberculosis and refer
patients to the tuberculosis dispensary for confirmation of diagnosis as
called for by current national policy, and enrollment in treatment.
6/   e.g., most anti-tuberculosis drugs can be taken in tablet form.  An
intravenous administration of drugs at the clinic earns a considerably
higher fee however. The adding of extra antibiotic drugs, vitamins,
liver enzymes and Chinese herbal medicines further increases income to
the dispensary.
2/   Only about one patient in five reports to the dispensary for
registration and treatment in many rural areas.
8/   This is termed "passive case finding".



- 6 -
2.15      However, overall rates of case registration at dispensaries have
been low.21 This is due to several factors:
(a) Nearly all county level tuberculosis services have only been re-
established in the last 10 years, and some counties still do not
have tuberculosis control programs. There is a natural lag as
other health care institutions become accustomed to referring
patients to the dispensary for diagnosis and registration.
(b) Sputum smear examination skills are weak and microscopes are of
poor quality leading to unsatisfactory quality of direct smear
examination. The majority of microscopes used in the county
dispensaries and health clinics are monocular, of poor optical and
mechanical quality and should be replaced with good quality
binocular microscopes. Microscopy skills are weak and training is
uneven and infrequent. There is no regular system of supervision
and checking of smear results by higher level technical staff. In
many dispensaries x-ray units are absent or of poor quality and
films are in short supply. In any setting these factors would lead
to low case-detection rates and uncertain follow-up of cure.
Sputum culture and drug sensitivity testing, available only at
prefectural and provincial levels, is not easily accessible to the
county level. Nor would widespread use of bacteriological cultures
at the county level be appropriate as they are expensive and very
time consuming. The situation can only be improved through much
better microscopy. This requires acceptable quality microscopes,
improved protocols for diagnosis, better trained and supervised
technicians, and a sound provincial reference laboratory system for
tuberculosis bacteriology and for quality assurance of the county
microscopy program.
(c) The expense of treatment leads many new and chronic cases to avoid
registration even though they continue to have symptoms101.
2/   In the second nationwide epidemiological survey (1984/85), the
registration rates of active tuberculosis, bacteriological positive
cases and smear-positive cases were 23/100,000, 11/100,000 and
10/100,000 respectively. This case registration rate corresponds to only
4.4% to 7.0% of estimated prevalence.
XQ/ About a third of all smear positive patients will spontaneously become
smear negative, and most of them can be considered cured, at least
temporarily. Almost all of the other two-thirds will die within five
years without treatment. How long smear positive patients will survive
with occasional, incomplete treatment is unknown but it is certain that
they infect many healthy people and are a prime source for development
and dissemination of tubercle bacilli which are resistant to the main
anti-tuberculosis drugs.



(d) Lower level, general health institutions may not recognize symptoms
of tuberculosis and may treat patients for long periods of time
with inappropriate medications.
(e) The number of older patients registered is relatively low. Older
patients, many of whom may be previously treated chronic cases, may
be less willing to spend family resources to have chronic illnesses
evaluated or treated. Village and township doctors may easily take
less notice of chronic cough in older patients and fail to refer
them for evaluation. Failure to detect, register and treat such
cases leads to further transmission of the disease.
(f) Active case-finding (structured programs of X-ray or sputum
screening of workers, peasants, county residents, miners, etc.) is
still encouraged by policy at several levels and should in theory
be able to avoid tuberculosis spreading in the community. Because
of the large number of persons who must be screened per case found,
it is a very expensive approach. Such campaigns are still carried
out periodically by local governments but only a small fraction of
the population can be covered, and the overall contribution to
case-finding is very small. Its contribution to program costs is
dis-proportionately large and it uses scarce funds to find more
cases for which money to ensure cure may not be available.
2.16      ChemotheraRy and Case Management Issues.  Case treatment practices
are not satisfactory in many parts of China. There are two main reasons -
inappropriate chemotherapy and poor patient compliance and supervision - each
with a number of aspects.
2.17      In the early 1980s a standard, long-course chemotherapy regimen
continued to be used. This has been gradually replaced with various short-
course chemotherapy regimens with considerable variability among and within
provinces. Current national policy encourages supervised chemotherapy for all
infectious (smear-positive) cases, at least for the first two months. Actual
practice varies, depending on provincial policies, the enthusiasm of the local
staff, and the availability of funds for supervision and for payments to
village doctors. Unnecessarily long treatment regimens, and infrequent use
of intermittent short-course chemotherapy, for patients for whom regular
supervision is difficult, increases the cost of the regimen without
substantially increasing the potential for cure.
2.18      Some tuberculosis dispensaries allow their staff wide discretion in
prescribing drug regimens. A variety of drug formulations not found in the
NTP or PTP recommended regimens are used. Drugs are also often administered
intravenously even though no clinical indications justify this practice. The
only benefit is to the dispensary, which can charge more for more costly drugs
or for giving intravenously what could have been taken by mouth.
2.19      A substantial percentage of all cases found either do not start
treatment, or drop out of treatment. The exact number is difficult to
evaluate since statistics on treatment outcome often do not follow correct
methods, but about half of all treatment is reportedly stopped, at least in



- 8 -
part due to financial problems. In rural areas especially, financial barriers
present serious problems for program success.
2.20      Even if treatment is given for free, supervision of chemotherapy is
important due to the difficulties experienced in all countries in getting
patients to comply with self-admini.stered therapy. This is especially true
once acute symptoms of the disease have been relieved. However, supervised
chemotherapy is relatively neglected in most locations in China. Village
doctors may give streptomycin injections, but often fail to record this on the
patient treatment card. Most other chemotherapy (drugs in tablet form) is
self-administered rather than being observed by the physician and supervision
of patient cards to check on compliance is unusual.
2.21      Follow-up sputum exams, usually at the county dispensary, are
needed to document the success or failure of treatment, especially for smear
positive cases. Current practice in the NTP has been for sputum exams to be
done monthly, but every two months would be acceptable, and would pose a
lesser barrier for the patient. At present, follow-up exams are often not
completed, either because the patient stops treatment, or simply fails to come
for appointments. Some dispensaries report as cured those patients for whom
follow-up data is inadequate. This makes evaluation of program effectiveness
much more difficult and reflects inadequate supervision practices by
prefectural and provincial tuberculosis program managers.
2.22      Side effects of anti-tuberculosis medications in proper treatment
regimens should be uncommon. At present, in part because treatment regimens
are not optimal, physicians feel they need to monitor for side effects by
liver function tests, and other blood tests.!l1 As patients or their
insurers must pay for these tests the dispensary also has a financial interest
in their encouragement. At present these kinds of tests may be recommended as
often as monthly. Blood tests to evaluate side effects should not be done
routinely, but only for the very few patients who develop clinical signs of
side effects. These tests should be performed in general hospitals on
recommendation by the tuberculosis dispensary physicians based on patient
symptoms. Dispensaries should not themselves be equipped to perform serology
tests.
2.23      At present, patient and family education programs to encourage and
motivate compliance with treatment are not effective. There are no guidelines
for patient education to be conducted during the supervisory home visits by
local staff, usually village doctors, and there are no training courses to
provide dispensary staff the skills and guidance needed to remedy this
situation. Patient education materials for tuberculosis are minimal to non-
existent.
U!   The profusion of non-standard drug regimens, some routinely containing
highly toxic second- and third-line anti-tuberculosis drugs, underlies
much of the occurrence and concern with complications which require
frequent examinations. Adoption of standardized, less toxic first-line
drug regimens will virtually eliminate the real clinical basis for
concern.



- 9 -
2.24      Recording. Reporting and Evaluation Issues,  The principle
objective of a tuberculosis control program must be to cure patients of
tuberculosis. This prevents further infections being caused in the general
population. A national reporting system established in the last few years is
a great improvement over the very limited reports collected in the early
1980s. However, the current forms are complex and inconsistent. Annual
reporting from the county level is too infrequent to allow for good
supervision and feedback and should be changed to quarterly reporting. The
national reporting system is weakened by the inconsistent inclusion of
hospitalized patients, and the remaining difficulties in getting all health
units to report tuberculosis patients. The present record system for
case-finding and case-management, and the registry system methods have not
been standardized for all PTPs.   As a result, data for assessment and
evaluation of the tuberculosis control program remains weak at best.
2.25      Overall, the reporting system should clearly indicate the incidence
and types of tuberculosis cases found in the population, the extent to which
cure is achieved for each and whicLi step in the process is missing or weak
when it is not achieved. The system presently in use does not meet this test
and it leaves open many possibilities for mis- or under-reporting, avoidance
of responsibility for supervision and yields inconsistent data sets and
reports, making evaluation of case-finding and treatment results impossible.
III. SCHISTOSOMIASIS IN CHINA
A. Background and Present Situation.
3.1       In the 1940s, morbidity and mortality rates due to schistosomiasis
were relatively high in endemic areas in China. Terms such as "village
without villagers," "widow's villages," or "big-belly villages" graphically
depicted the impact of the disease. In the worst cases, people deserted their
villages and large areas of cultivated land to move to distant areas free of
the infection.
3.2       The first schistosomiasis control program was launched in 1955.
Schistosomiasis was endemic in two million square kilometer area over twelve
provinces12.. A total of 378 counties and 5,102 cities were positive for
both schistosomiasis patients and the intermediate host, oncomelania snails.
Of the more than 100 million population at risk, almost 10 million were
infected. Infection among domestic and wild animals was epidemiologically
important, with et least 1.2 million cattle infected. Infected snail habitats
covered over 14.5 billion square meters.
3.3       The schistosomiasis control strategy entailed a mix of approaches
with initial emphasis on transmission control through large scale
environmental modification and mollusciciding. Treatment of infected persons
12/ Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Anhui, Jiangxi, Hunan, Hubei, Sichuan, Yunnan,
Fujian, Guangdong, the municipality of Shanghai, and Guangxi Autonomous
Region.



- 10 -
and animals was also undertaken but drugs then available were toxic and
difficult to administer. There was strong central leadership from a National
Leading Group for Sehistosomiasis Control with direct political ties and a
direct vertical line of technical control to the provincial health bureaus.
These arrangements ensured adequate budgets, attentiveness of local
authorities and coherence of technical approach. During the subsequent 30
years, the control strategy was modified gradually in response to changing
epidemiological patterns and technological advances. China's progress in
controlling the disease was widely noted in international health circles.
B. Results Achieved
3.4       Schistosomiasis prevalence was drastically reduced, primarily due
to the extraordinary priority given and efforts put into program design and
implementation. Snail control was carried out in the course of agricultural
work, e.g. reclaiming of wetlands, leveling of land, digging of new ditches
and filling old ones, changing rice paddies into dry crops, and plowing by
machines and afterwards compacting the earth and by mollusciciding areas where
people easily come into contact with water infested with snails. Massive
mobilization of the population to find and eliminate snails and their habitat
was regularly conducted in some regions. The results achieved over 30 years
have been impressive.
Results Achieved in Schistosomiasis Control -- 1956-87
Reduction
Indicator                                1956         1987        (Percent)
Number of endemic provinces                12           9            25
Number of endemic counties               373          107            71
Population at risk (in millions)         100.0         50.0          50
Infected persons (in millions)            10.0          1.5          85
Infected cattle (in millions)              1.2          0.3          75
Snail habitats (in billion mi2)           14.5          3.2          78
3.5       By the mid-1980s the remaining major endemic areas were in the
swamp and lake regions -- mostly in the five provinces surrounding Poyang and
Dongting lakes and along the Yangtze River -- Jiangsu, Anhui, Jiangxi, Hubei
and Hunan Provinces -- and mountainous regions in Sichuan and Yunnan
Provinces. Zhejiang province was approaching the criteria for eradication.
Progress overall had been so good that the National Leading Group for
Schistosomiasis Control had been disbanded in 1986 and responsibility had been
lodged with a small office in the Department of Endemic Disease Control (DEDC)
of the MOPH.



- 11 -
3.6       In retrospect, however, it is clear that even while these steps
based on success were being taken, the epidemiological situation was
fluctuating, and in some areas schistosomiasis progress was by no means
secure-U.  In fact, during the last half of the 1980's snail habitats have
been increasing, by 20 percent and 36 percent per year respectively in 3ichuan
and Jiangsu provinces for example.  In the Dongting lake area, snnil habitat
has been increasing at a rate of 40 million square meters per year. The
number of acute infections has increased from 2,435 in 1985, -o 13,189 in
1989, the most since 1971. Of the 1989 acute cases over half were from
Hunan, Hubei and Jiangxi, an increase of 98 percent over the previous year.
The number of advanced cases have also increased, reaching a total of 55,000
in 1989. In Hunan province alone, the number of advanced cases were 9,952 in
1989, compared with 2,711 in 1979. The infection rate of cattle has remained
high. In 1989 it was 17 percent in Hunan and 8 percent in Anhui, and over 40
percent in Sichuan. Lastly, the egg positive rate of stool examinations has
shown a steadily increasing trend for both the lake region provinces and other
endemic areas.
3.7       By late 1989, these trends had begun to cause serious concern at
the highest levels of government that past progress against the disease was in
danger of being eroded and that a revitalized schistosomiasis program was
required.
C. Current Issues in the Schistosomiasis Program.
3.8       Difficulty of Control in Remaining Endemic Areas.  While the
success achieved in schistosomiasis control is impressive, the more recent
stagnation and reversal of progress shows the danger of neglect of the program
and its funding needs. For the future, although about one third of the
endemic counties have reached the criteria of eradication and more than a
third are under effective control, these areas were comparatively easier to
control. Control in the remaining endemic counties will be a much more
difficult and long term task for several reasons: (a) there is increasing
silt deposit in rivers to form islets, and expansion of river banks on which
weeds (and snails) can grow, placing the nearby human population at risk of
infection; (b) water level in the lake regions varies considerably with
seasonal changei/'; (c) the snails habitats on the river and lake beaches,
and swamps outside the dikes, cannot be eliminated with existing technologies;
(d) large numbers of snails can be spread from these habitats outside the
dikes into agricultural areas inside as control gates are opened for
irrigation and drainage; (e) construction works of the kind previously used
U/   The average prevalence in the endemic areas was: Hunan 14.7%; Hubei
12.9%; Yunnan 16.8t; Anhui 8.46% and Sichuan 4.4%. In Jiangxi province
the prevalence rates were higher than 10% in 326 villages, the infection
rate being as high as 80% in a few of them. New infections were common.
In some provinces the number of newly infected persons accounted for
30-40% of the total.
L./  For example, differences in seasonal water levels in Dongting Lake can
be as much as 17 meters.



- 12 -
for snail control would be very expensive in the remaining endemic areas of
the lake regions and will raise questions of impact on water conservation and
ecological equilibrium; (f) changed socio-economic conditions make
mobilization of the populace for collective efforts at disease control more
difficult to organize than before; 'g) the mountainous regions, mainly in
Sichuan and Yunnan provinces, have extensive snail habitats, are economically
underdeveloped, and are physically difficult to reach.
3.9       Changes Required in Technological Strategy.  The objective of
control measures in the past was to eradicate schistosomiasis by snail
control, defecation management, provision of safe water supply, treatment of
infected persons and domestic animals, etc. Emphasis was given to snail
control and treatment of patients with clearly defined disease. Less
attention was paid to health education and disease surveillance and
generalized morbidity control of the effects of the disease. In budget
allocations, snail control received a relatively large proportion. This was
appropriate at the time and with the control tools then available.A11/
3.10      However, snail control cannot continue to be the primary means of
disease nontrol for the remaining lake areas and mountainous regions. The
water level of the lakes and rivers change dramatically during the year,
thereby vastly changing viable snail habitat. The distribution of the snails
is constantly-changing and extensive. Molluscicide is expensive. The
chemical used in China for the last decade (NaPCP) is toxic to workers and
fish and environmental concerns effectively limit its use as a primary tool of
snail control. Even environmentally acceptable molluscicides (such as
Niclosamide) must be carefully limited in use to selected "'focal" sites6/1.
Other traditional snail control strategies such as continued use of large
scale embankments and land reclamation to reduce snail habitat and develop new
agricultural area is limited by the need to preserve ecological balance as the
lakes in central China play an important role as seasonal flood storage
impoundments. Conversely, modern chemotherapy (praziquantel) is cheap, easy
to administer, has no serious side-effects, cures the infected person promptly
and reduces probability of transmission of the disease to the snail
intermediate host. By 1984 the clear advantages of chemotherapy for morbidity
reduction and morbidity control were fully accepted by the WaHO as preferred
strategy for control and management of the disease in all but those areas with
the lowest endemicity.
5-~/ Drugs available before 1978 were toxic and difficult to administer
because of poor patient compliance and the need for medical observation.
The main approaches to disrupting transmission were thus necessarily
limited to large scale environmental modification and snail control or
elimination.
l>/ "Focal" mollusciciding refers to the application of molluscicide only in
those areas where significant numbers of people cannot avoid water
contact and where prevalence of snails is high (e.g. beaches and banks
near heavily settled rural and urban areas, schools, markets, ferry
landings, etc.).



- 13 -
3.11      These technical changes were not fully accommodated in China's
program however, for a number of reasons - e.g. adherence to custom, different
strategic objectives, and administrative or popular resistance to new
approaches, among others. In addition, after the success achieved in control
by 1980, funds provided by the central and provincial governments for
schistosomiasis were kept constant, in current terms, for a decade. In real
terms schistosomiasis control expenditures during the decade fell
sharplyi71. (Annex Table 4.5 provides detailed expenditure data by province
in both current and constant prices.) The distribution among provinces also
remained fixed for a decade, thus creating wide differentials in resources
available per infected persons and per snail area despite changing conditions.
The sharp decline of real financial resources for schistosomiasis control and
the differentials among provinces was reflective of the lack of attention to
the disease in planning and finance agencies and the absence, after the
disbanding of the National Leading Group, of a strong national program office
with clear planning criteria and the ability to target resources effectively.
3.12      Dysfunctional Sectoral Policies.  Policy changes at the national
level which reduced budget provisions for basic prevention and health
servicesll of all kinds have adversely affected schistosomiasis program
coverage and performance as well. The government's insistence that all
sectors and programs -- including such "public good" activities as endemic
disease control -- take responsibility for earning part of their funding has
distorted program priorities. The impact of this policy is most pronounced at
the field-level anti-epidemic stations (AES), which have become overly
dependent on user-fees for fixed cost deficits and meeting basic operational
costs.
3.13      Control program characteristics have been directly affected by the
resources available. Because prevertive activities (such as mass
chemotherapy, health education and epidemiological surveillance) do not
generate revenues, they have been de-emphasized in daily field activities.
Instead, anti-schistosomiasis stations (ASTs) and workers have clear
preferences now to provide clinic- or hospital-based treatment of even minor
or suspected infections for those who can payl.91 -- mainly civil servants,
other workers covered by insurance programs and wealthier peasants. There is
no incentive for field staff to directly emphasize effective morbidity control
by providing ambulatory chemotherapy of infected persons and adequate supplies
of praziquantel for mass- and selective chemotherapy of populations at risk
1/  Budgets were increased in 1989 when government again became concerned
about the disease but by then far more resources were needed to address
the problem.
la/ See para 1.4 and general discussion under Section II about financial
reforms and their impact.
9/  Patients are provided, for a fee, ultrasound scans, bed rest, liver
enzymes, vitamins, glucose intravenous solutions with multiple anti-
biotics and, sometimes, praziquantel - which is cheap and free of
charge.



- 14 -
have not been purchased because of the overall shortfall in government funding
for useful operational activities. There are reasons, however, for AST staff
to undertake screening and field surveillance activities because of per-diem
and other incentive payments they receive for performing these tasks,
regardless of disease control effectiveness.
3.14      Institutional Resources for control of schistosomiasis in the
endemic areas are still good (Aninex Table 4.1), The existing network of
control stations and staff provides a sound base for a revised strategy of
disease control. A total of about 14,000 professional staff (scientists,
physicians, and public health workers) can be directly engaged in
schistosomiasis control at various levels (Annex Table 4.2)2∞/. The
majority of these staff have intermediate level. qualifioations and are trained
as field technicians for schistosomiasis control 3perations (Annex Table 4.3).
Although they are undLr the administrative control of the local health bureau,
technical guidance and support are provided by the professional staff of the
schistosomiasis institutes or stations at the next higher administrative
level. This distinction between technical and administrative supervision
reinforces - at all levels - the specialized character of the schistosomiasis
control program.  Key challenges remain however in four main aspects.
3.15      Weak Operational Research Practices.  China has a large number of
good basic science researchers in the schistosomiasis topics, but their skills
are not yet comparable in social science methods, medical and economic
research, and organization and management issues. Strengthening research
institutions and their personnel, especially operational research on cost-
effective methods of disease control, is thus a high priority in view of the
changing technologies and strategies.
3.16      More Health Education Required.  There is a weak understanding of
schistosomiasis prevention among the population in the endemic areas. In
recent years, health education about transmission of infection and its
prevention has been neglected. The budget for health education in the five
lake region provinces was only about Y500,000 in 1989, about 0.25 percent of
the total. As 40 percent of acute infections occur among children, often the
result of previously uninfected individuals coming into contact with infected
water, introduction of effective health education for schools and the general
public .ould help both to avoid exposures which may result in acute infection
and to influence the behavior of the general population to help reduce
transmission.
3.17      URgrading of Technical Skills Reauired.  Training and reorientation
of attitudes and skills of AST staff and workers is required. Among existing
AST professionals there will soon be retirement of many experienced staff.
Many of those recruited in recent years while the program was languishing need
to be trained in the basic techniques of schistosomiasis control. All staff,
particularly program managers at each level, need training to reorient
2Q/ In addition, there are about 10-15,000 part-time para-professional snail
control workers.



- 15) -
traditional concern with eradication of the disease in favor of a revised
strategy of morbidity control.
3.18      Rehabilitation of Facilities Reaqired.  Inadequate facilities and
inappropriate equipment characterize many ASTs.   Those established in the
1950s tend to be in poor condition and in need of maintenance and renewal,
Basic equipment for case identification and surveillance work (microscopes,
refrigerators, incubators and vehicles) are of poor quality and old. Floods
in mid-1991 damaged structures and ruined existing basic equipment in some
county-level ASTs in a number of endemic provinces. Additions and replacement
of good quality, simple equipment are needed while more sophisticated
instruments need to be avoided or purchased only very selectively.
IV. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND BANK ROLE IN PROJECGi
4.1       Government Strategy and Plan.  There is a close relation between
government's revised strategy for control of the two diseases and the Bank
Group's role in the project (paragraphs 4.10-11 below).
4.2       In late 1989 concern at the highest levels of government with
trends showing possible resurgence of schistosomiasis led to a renewed
interest in the disease. Effective control in the still-endemic lake regions
and mountainous regions appeared in danger and it was not clear that the
provincial governments would be able to consolidate and maintain control
achieved to date. Failure to do so would mean that the disease will
eventually come back in many areas. Recognizing this, senior central and
provincial government officials have in the last year encouraged the MOPH to
reassess present and future needs, and propose corrective action. Provincial-
level program managers of the five lake region provinces jointly prepared a
draft program to revitalize schistosomiasis control for the Eighth Five Year
Plan (1991-95), along with a detailed program of action for 1991. However,
only marginal changes in past strategy (which mainly relied on environmental
controls and aimed at snail eradication) were included in these efforts,
largely because the officials in charge did not perceive that funds adequate
to make the fundamental changes needed in the program would be available. The
needs of the mountainous provinces and Zhejiang were not considered for the
same reasons.
4.3       In mid-1990, the State Council decided to further strengthen the
schistosomiasis control work. It called for strengthened leadership, better
coordination, further development of the roles of the control stations and
training of the staff, increased investment in disease control and improved
health education programs and better regulations for health protection. The
guidance given, while general, provided the framework within which the
preparation of a greatly improved control strategy2-11, emphasizing best
2?/  The prospects of success in a long-term program are now better than in
the past because of improved drugs. The availability of the high
effect, low toxicity and less expensive drug -- praziquantel -- provides
a practical method of treating large numbers of persons in field



- 16 -
Proven practices and morbidity control, rather than disease eradication in
nighly endemic areas, has been worked out between the MOPiI and the provinces.
IDA involvement in developing the strategy and willingness to fund the costs
of its implementation were catalytic to its evolution. The core of the
government's revised program for the Eighth Five Year Plan and the policy
document outlining this strategy for implementation by the provinces is
contained in Annex 6. It is based on a strategy of morbidity reduction and
control, with transmission control in only the lowest prevalence areas.  The
proposed project supports this strategy.
4.4       Tuberculosis was not planned to receive any significant attention
from the government as a health priority in the Eighth Five Year Plan. The
burden of financing treatment of the disease had inadvertently but effectively
been delegated to the patients in the course of financial reforms in the last
decade. Resources to reverse this undesirable situation appeared to be non-
existent. The disease was poorly understood by central authorities outside
the health sector, largely believed to be a problem of the past because of its
low urban prevalence today and it still bore a considerable social stigma
associated with "sanatoria".221 Health authorities were aware of the extent
of the problem but had to balance many competing priorities. Provincial
governments were much more closely attuned to the seriousness of the disease
but did not perceive that they could mobilize by themselves the funds and
consensus for administrative and financial system changes to deal with it.
4.5       Based on the findings of the World Bank's Health Priorities Review
and the just completed health sector report for China, IDA took the initiative
to suggest a reform-oriented project for tuberculosis. The MOPH welcomed this
initiative and quickly found that at least 12 provinces covering half the
country's population were strongly motivated to participate and expressed
their commitment to tuberculosis as a leading health problem, particularly for
the rural and disadvantaged areas. Other central authorities have expressed
increasing support for such a project as they came to understand more of its
importance and promise. In fact, the government's strategy for tuberculosis
control has now become this project's strategy for all of those provinces
where project resources will permit its initiation. The strategy is based on
free provision of diagnosis, chemotherapy and follow-up services to achieve
programs to kill the worms in the human host and thus disrupt the
transmission cycle while simultaneously treating morbidity in the
patient and avoiding the development of most serious chronic and acute
cases of disease. It also makes it more likely that progress can be
sustained.
il/ Prior to discovery of anti-biotics, the only therapy to treat
tuberculosis was rest and improved nutrition to strengthen the body's
natural immune defenses. To protect the community, isolation of
tuberculosis patients in sanatoria was common, and special diets and
long periods of rest could be provided. These institutions were often
in isolated locations and patients stayed for long periods, many never
to return. As sanatoria were by definition filled mainly with highly
infectious persons, they were places to be avoided.



- 1i -
very high cure rates of persons with infectious tuberculosis, thereby
preventing transmission of the disease.
4.6       Past Experience with Previous Bank Group Operations,  Bank Group
work with health sector authorities began when China resumed its membership in
1980. Strategy from that time has focused on four elements in order to
achieve the goals of (a) raisitig health sector efficiency while, (b) making
progress against important remaining infectious diseases, and (c) initiating
prevention of non communicable diseases which characterize the health
transition.2-1 The first element has been to assist government to analyze
and select priorities about which something can be done - i.e., to tackle
important and solvable problems. The second element has been strengthening oi
sector institutions at all levels through organizational development and human
resource development. The third element has been to enhance capacity for
research and technlologies compatible with effectiveness and efficiency
objectives.
4.7       The fourth element has been to improve sector effectiveness and
efficiency by addressing (a) disease-specific issues in the poorer areas and
(b) institutional and economic/financial issues which clearly pose problems.
In this context, China's implementation of economic reforms for the sector in
the mid-1980s have caused the Bank to become increasingly concerned about
health care market failures in a partially reformed environment. New barriers
to health service access and new inefficiencies have arisen as unanticipated
consequences of reforms. These issues will continue to pose challenges for
design and implementation of health projects. No single country has yet found
a solution to all the issues involved in health care financing but each
project must consider current problems and design changes to address them.
This process will contribute to the Bank's own understanding and provide
experience for other countries to consider.
4.8       Bank Group health sector dialogue with the government has been
pursued through sector work, and through three projects financed by the Bank
Group which are under implementation141. Experience on each of these has
been good. A Rural Heaith Manpower Development P_ject is under preparation
for FY93. The proposed project continues this process with close linkages to
23/ Health transition means the shift in disease predominance from mainly
communicable and infective diseases to mainly chronic and non-
communicable diseases. It is the result of demographic and
epidemiological factors and it will characterize future health status of
every society which succeeds in reducing childhood deaths and premature
death in early and middle age.
2-/  The Rural Health and Medical Education Project (Credit 1472) started in
1984 and will be complete by the end of 1991; the Rural Health and
Preventive Medicine Project (Credit 1713 and Loan 2723) started in 1986
and is largely completed except for component B, Vaccine Production,
which will run until 1995. The Integrated Regional Health Development
Project (Credit 2009) initiated activities in early 1990 and is
progressing satisfactorily.



- 18 -
many of the project activities and sector study findings of the last 10
years. 2l
4.9       Lessons learned have included the need to:  review carefully the
proposed construction and equipment purchases to ensure suitability; insist
on inclusion of technical assistance for key activities; adequately provide
for operational research and budget carefully for recurrent costs. The
importance of support for central project activities, inc.'.uding funding for a
program of work leading to future investments has also become clear. As
provincial governments have demonstrated increasing independence and taken on
greater responsibilities the need for specific and clear agreements with them
has become more apparent. In particular, when projects involve substantial
administrative and financial reforms, the details and key procedures for their
implementation are important to be accepted specifically by provincial
governments if full commitment to their implementation is expected. These
aspects of project development have been attended to during the project
preparation dialogue and in the conditions for lending and effectiveness for
the proposed project set forth in section IX below.
4.10      Bank Role and Contribution.  Identification and preparation of the
project has allowed IDA to contribute substantially to reorienting the disease
control program strategies for both diseases. Neither disease has a strong
gender bias and women are expected to benefit equally with men from disease
control programs. Both national and provincial government authorities entered
into a project preparation dialogue which exposed them to a reexamination of
the strengths and weakness of the present approaches to both diseases. Ideas
of cost effectiveness of program components, and technology and spending
alternatives were introduced which have resulted in commitment to introduce
financial reforms to achieve better results. The overall effect of this
dialogue has been agreement on revitalized tuberculosis and schistosomiasis
control programs which will substantially improve the social/economic
conditions for a large segment of Chtna's population.
2/  For example, understanding of the behavior and forces affecting health
institutions and disease control programs has emerged from rural health
component work under the first three projects, and analyzed in the
recent sector report.  Establishment and strengthening of the Chinese
Academy of Preventive Medicine, of which the Shanghai Institute of
Parasitic Diseases is a part, was a product of Credit 1472. Strengths
and weaknesses of the disease surveillance and reporting systems, and of
the health statistics systems, has emerged and been partially addressed
in Credit 1472 which established the Center for Health Statistics and
Information in the MOPH. Credit 1713 strengthened and assisted the
provincial Epidemic Prevention Stations in nine provinces, and provided
much better experience in surveillance and reporting methodologies.
Credit 2009 is exploring alternative means of health assessment,
surveillance and planning and has involved national institutions in
working with local governments to address some of the practical problems
imposed on the health system by decentralization of administrative and
financial responsibilities of government.



- 19 -
4.11      In this context the following aspects of the projecc dialogue with
Government are noteworthy:
(a) the planned reorientation of the disease control strategies for
tuberculosis and schistosomiasis has strategic implications fur
overall public health financing strategy in China. The project
represents a first step oward free "public" primary health care
and preventive services for activities which have "public" benefit.
This reorientation was discussed in detail with government in the
health sector report (7965-CHA) and has been accepted by many in
the MOPH. Remaining as a problem has been how to finance "public
benefit" services. In this case the IDA Credit provides a source
to do this and to stimulate local government cooperation with this
principle. Experience with the effects of this policy shift may be
important in determining national and local government views on
this important topic for the future.
(b)  IDA assistance for schistosomiasis will accelerate preventive
activities covering China's largest endemic areas, preventing a
further loss of program momentum and safeguarding past
accomplishments. For tuberculosis, IDA funding for free short-
course chemotherapy of pulmonary tuberculosis will be catalytic in
achieving high cure rates and preventing transmission of the
disease. Institutional strengthening activities and operational
research on tuberculosis and schistosomiasis control will be
enhanced with IDA involvement.
(c)  the project dialogue and design have addressed a number of
efficiency issues. With the schistosomiasis program the government
will make a major shift in strategy, moving away from large scale
eradication to a more appropriate morbidity control strategy. For
tuberculosis, it has been agreed that dispensaries need to
emphasize cure of all detected infectious cases to rapidly reduce
the infection rate rather than searching for new cases and only
treating those who can afford to pay. To implement this agreement,
participating provinces will make major reforms in both the
strategy of their tuberculosis programs and in the way these health
services are financed. The result will be sharply improved
effectiveness, accountability and equity.
(d)  there is a strong anti-poverty focus of the project which gives it
a priority for IDA's attention. For schistosomiasis it is mainly
rural, and mainly lower-income and less-educated groups who are the
natural targets of the disease. For tuberculosis, the project will
affect mainly peasants and help alleviate the immediate, often
financially devastating, impact of the disease on the patients and
their families while preventing further transmission of the disease
in the community.
4.12      Overall, preparation and financing of the project has provided the
Bank and the Government an unique opportunity to address some of the issues
closely associated with poverty themes of the 1990 World Development Report by



- 20 -
dealing with the shortfalls of public financing and imperfections in market
mechanisms for financing public health programs. This comes at a time when
there is (a) widespread international concern -ith the adverse impact of these
two diseases, ai  (b) interest and consensus that good technical methods of
effective prevention and control are established and suitable for
dissemination in many developing countries.
4.13      Collaboration with WHO.  With 2.9 million deaths and 8 million new
cases per year, tuberculosis remains a major global public health prcOlem
which is not being adequately addressed. In addition, because of the HIV
pandemic and rising drug resistance, the tuberculosis situation is now rapidly
worsening and there is an urgent worldwide need to bring tuberculosis under
control. In recognition of this situation the World Health Assembly approved
establishment of a new WHO Global Tuberculosis Control Programme in May, 1991.
Parallel development of this Programme has played a majcr role in development
of the tuberculosis component of the project. The component constitutes the
largest initiative to apply all elements of WHO's new tuberculosis control
strategy and its implementation will inevitably be influential for other
national tuberculosis programs. Successful implementation of the component
will be necessary for achievement of the global targets for tuberculosis
control for the year 2000 (85 percent cure of all detected sputum positive
cases and 70 percent detection of such cases). It is expected that the Global
Tuberculosis Programme will continue to participate closely with the
Association in supervising implementation of the component and providing the
necessary technical support. It is also expected that the Programme will
facilitate China's access to technical assistance and international research
efforts to advise on the design, implementation and policy implications of
operational research conducted to improve the effectiveness of tuberculosis
programs and to resolve problems encountered during implementation of the
component. For these purposes, IDA and WHO will continue to collaborate
closely.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Strategy
5.1       History and Development of the Project.  Lending program
discussions in May 1990 initiated a dialogue with the Government on the merits
and potential for the proposed project. A project identification mission in
July 1990 assessed the overall rationale and feasibility of initiating
improved disease control programs. The MOPH established project preparation
teams which have worked during late 1990 and early 1991 to develop de 'led
project elements. Preparation missions in September/October, 1990 an(.
January/February, 1991, staffed with specialists from the WHO, the IUATLD and
consultants, were able to make considerable progress in project preparation
and in identification of technical and financial reforms needed for the
proposed project. Revisions of the project proposals as agreed with the
preparatory missions was accomplished smoothly by the Government and the
project was appraised in June, 1991.



- 21 -
5.2       Project Objectives and Approach.  The project has two related
objectives:
(a)  to reduce the risk of tuberculosis infection and schistosomiasis
prevalence and infection rates. For tuberculosis, it would aim to
expand and improve free, ambulatory treatment with short-course
chemotherapy of patients with infectious pulmonary tuberculosis to
achieve reduction of the infection rate more equitably and
effectively in twelve provinces covering about half the population
of China. For schistosomiasis, the project would aim to revitalize
and reorient the national schistosomiasis control program to reduce
the prevalence and rate of infection in the eight main remaining
endemic provinces by implementing a morbidity reduction and control
strategy with limited transmission control objectives; and
(b)  to institute reforms and improve program management to achieve
greater efficiency and effectiveness of disease control activities.
For both tuberculosis and schistosomiasis, and for other important
infectious diseases, the project would aim to strengthen the
institutions, management and financing systems, personnel and
operational methods for disease control and to research, develop
and disseminate cost-effective methods and materials for improving
future disease control and sustaining the progress made.
B. Proiect Description
5.3       The project would support the national tuberculosis control program
by providing support to the provincial tuberculosis programs (PTPs) in twelve
participating provinces261, the main parts of the national schistosomiasis
control program in the eight endemic provinces"I7, and essential operational
research and capacity building at the central and provincial levels for
program implementation and for prevention of other infectious diseases.
5.4       The tuberculosis control component will consist of the following
sub-components implemented during the period 1992-1998:
(a)  expansion, improvement and free provision of tuberculosis
diagnostic services at all tuberculosis dispensaries and upgrading
of the quality of bacteriological services at provincial and
prefectural levels.
(b)  provision of free, short-course chemotherapy and other treatment
services to achieve high cure rates of: (i) all smear positive
pulmonary tuberculosis patients; and, (ii) symptomatic, newly-
>/  The provinces are:  Gansu, Guangdong, Hainan, Hebei, Heilongjiang,
Hubei, Hunan, Liaoning, Ningxia, Shandong, Sichuan and Xinjiang.
Z2/ The endemic provinces are five in the lake regions (Hubei, Hunan,
Jiangxi, Anhui, Jiangsu) plus parts of Zhejiang, and two provinces in
the mountainous region (Sichuan and Yunnan).



- 22 -
detected, pulmonary smear-negative tuberculosis cases with cavitary
(a cavity-like) or miliary (many small dispersed) lesions.
(c) improvement of case management by adoption of a revised standard
tuberculosis registry, reporting forms and supe,-visory protocol.
5.5       Institutional strengthening in support of tuberculosis control
would include the following sub-components:
(a) strengthening the MOPH's infectious disease control capacity by
establishing a national Tuberculosis Project Office, and under its
leadership, to reconstitute the National Tuberculosis Control and
Research Center as the Tuberculosis Control Center (TCC) with
adequate staff, facilities and budgets to be responsible for
formulating, supervising and enforcing national tuberculosis
control policies to be implemented by the PTPs.
(b) reorganizing and upgrading the PTP, in each project province, with
a provincial tuberculosis dispensary under the Epidemic Prevention
Division of the Public Health Bureau, to plan, manage and supervise
the PTP.
(c) implementing a Tuberculosis Policy Package of administrative,
technical and financial reforms to improve the systems by which the
tuberculosis dispensaries in participating PTPs are financed and
managed.
(d) undertaking operational research into management, economic, social
and epidemiological factors to improve tuberculosis control in
different settings in China and to undertake research and prepare
future programs.
5.6       Support to the national schistosomiasis control program during a
five year period (1992-1996) would consist of the following sub-components in
eight provinces, constituting the main features of the Borrower's Eighth Five
Year Plan for schistosomiasis control to be carried out in accordance with an
agreed Schistosomiasis Policy Statement:
(a) case identification and treatment of infected individuals. Mass-
and selective-chemotherapy, will be provided to eligible
individuals according to disease prevalence rates in endemic areas.
(b) case identification and treatment of infected cattle and buffalo.
(c) snail control by mollusciciding and environmental control.
5.7       Institutional strengthening to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of the national schistosomiasis control program will be provided
through the following sub-components:
(a) strengthening of the division of schistosomiasis control within the
DEDC as the national schistosomiasis control program office with



- 23 -
additional staff, facilities and budgets and strengthening of
provincial endemic disease control divisions and subsidiary
schistosomiasis institutes to manage the program, to coordinate
design, testing, production, dissemination of health education
programs and materials, and staff training programs and materials.
(b)  improvement of the disease surveillance systA.m for schistosomiasis
with timely aggregation in the DEDC to provide reliable
epidemiological data to suitably adjust and target control
activities.
(c)  improvement of the schistosomiasis program's monitoring and
evaluation systems at all levels.
(d)  undertaking, through the schistosomiasis control offices and
institutes under the direction of a Joint Research Management
Committee, a program of m..nagement, economic, social and
epidemiological studies to improve schistosomiasis control in
different settings in China and to prepare future disease control
programs.
5.8       The project would also support a program of research into
alternatives for improving surveillance and control of other key infectious
diseases, including (i) sexually transmitted diseases and human immune
deficiency virus surveillance, and (ii) epidemiological studies of all types
of hepatitis and operational research on effective control of hepatitis B
virus through immunization.
C. Detailed Proiect Description
Tuberculosis Control. (US$68.2 million, base costs)
5.9       The following investments and activities will be implemented in
participating provinces during a seven year period of implementation (1992-
1998). A detailed Tuberculosis Policy Package of administrative, technical
and financial reforms governing tuberculosis component activities has been
agreed with the government and is presented in Annex 3. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Borrower will ensure that each province
RarticiRating in the tuberculosis comRonent of the project shall imRlement the
Tuberculosis Policy Package. in all its terms and conditions. and maintain its
Drovisions in effect for the full period of project implementation.
5.10      The Tuberculosis Policy Package addresses each of the main issues
currently facing the PTPs, and provides a basis from which rapid progress on
tuberculosis control can be expected. The main features of the Tuberculosis
Policy Package provide:
(a) chemotherapy for eligible patients, and all case-detection
examinations, follow-up, and other procedures done by tuberculosis



- 24 -
dispensaries, and other tuberculosis control units281, and
supervision of chemotherapy at village and township health clinics,
shall be free of charge to the patient.
(b) only approve short-course chemotherapy regimens would be stocked
and prescribed by dispensaries.
(c) tuberculosis dispensaries and their staff would be prohibited from
charging for any services. Provincial governments would provide
budgets to finance fixed operating cost deficits for the
dispensaries estimated at Y500 per staff year on average to bring
dispensary staff wages and benefits to the average levels of AES
workers of similar skills and qualifications.
5.11      Diagnostic Services.  (US$13.6 million)  Diagnostic services will
rely on passive finding and self-referral by sick persons, but health workers
at all levels, and particularly rural doctors, will be encouraged to actively
identify suspected tuberculosis cases and refer them to dispensaries for
confirmation of diagnosis (see para 5.12 below). The project provides for
construction or expansion of simple county level tuberculosis dispensaries (up
to 30 m2 each) in counties (or urban districts) which do not now have one or
where existing space is too small to accommodate a new X-ray unit and
microscopy center. Selected major township health centers will receive
additions for a microscopy center where distances or population densities are
such that reliance on a county level dispensary for diagnosis is
inappropriate. Civil works are estimated to cost US$800,000 equivalent.
5.12      Fluoroscopy examinations will be provided to all persons presenting
at the dispensaries (both self-referred and those referred by health workers)
with symptoms suggestive of tuberculosis. Suspected positives will have a
chest X-ray film made and at least three sputum specimens examined for
tubercle bacilli. About 3.5 million chest X-ray films and about 15 million
sputum examinations are expected to be required. The project provides for
appropriate equipment (about 1500 binocular microscopes and 430 X-ray machines
for those dispensaries which are not yet appropriately equipped, along with
ancillary supplies for n- croscopy and radiography. Equipment costs are US$2
million. Ancillary supplies, X-ray films, slides, stains, and the incremental
recurrent costs of performing diagnostic services are estimated at US$10
million equivalent. 'he detailed project cost tables provide information by
province and on the unit costs and case loads expected. Procedures to be
followed in dispensaries for diagnosis are outlined in Annex 3, Technical
Protocol II. Training for rural doctors and other health workers to recognize
and refer tuberculosis symptomatics will be provided by the dispensaries.
5.13      Chemotherapy. (US$41 million)  Improvement of chemotherapy outcome
(the cure rate) is the most important part of the tuberculosis component of
the project, since adequate case-detection and sputum conversion of excretors
31/ e.g. tuberculosis control units within anti-epidemic stations,
infectious disease control units at major township health centers,
tuberculosis clinics at urban hospital outpatient departments.



- 25 -
of tuberculosis bacilli are virtually the only tools for prevention of
tuberculosis. The cure rate indicates not only the proportion of cases who
convert from having positive sputa to negative sputa but also the proportion
of patients who remain sources of infection. Since the lives of those who are
not cured are prolonged by inadequate treatment, their cumulative nunber
increases the pool of infectious cases. In addition, these cases are the most
likely to spread tubercle bacilli resistant to anti-tuberculosis drugs. To
drastically reduce these sputum positive sources of infection is a main
medical activity of the tuberculosis component of the project. In order to
achieve this specific technical criteria must be strictly followed and
supervised. These are set out in detail in Annex 3, Technical Protocol II.
The project would provide for the purchase and distribution of the five basic
drugs required by the anti-tuberculosis regimens. Drug types and dosages have
been agreed and expected drug volume requirements have b en estimated.
5.14      Case Management. (US$13.6 million)  All PTPs participating in the
project will adopt and maintain a new registry system, including reporting
forms and evaluation and supervision procedures as part of the Tuberculosis
Policy Package. These are described in Annex 3, Technical Protocol V and the
forms attached thereto and have been approved by the MOPH.
5.15      The project will provide the materialsB21 and the costs for
patient management. The two most important elements of this will be a Y5.O
payment to village doctors (or other health workers) who originally refer
tuberculosis suspects to the dispensary for examination, if the diagnosis of
tuberculosis is confirmed. Village doctors will also be paid a case
management fee of Y40 for smear-negative patients and Y50 for smear-positive
patients for whom they supervise chemotherapy. Payment will be made after the
patient completes the full treatment course and the final sputum is collected.
Payment will not be made to dispensary staff, or if treatment cards and
registry evidence show that drug administration was not fully supervised in
the initial phase.
5.16      All counties will adopt the standardized registry and associated
reports and forms within 3 months of the start of the project (i.e., by March
31, 1992 and the first project progress report should present summary analysis
of the registry for each province). The registry will make it possible to
identify tuberculosis dispensaries at the county level with lower than average
case detection rates and low proportions of bacteriologically confirmed cases.
This will allow the provincial dispensary supervisors and the MOPH to target
management efforts and training to these dispensaries to improve the
situation."1 It will allow the provincial tuberculosis dispensary to be
able to monitor and evaluate results of treatment achieved in the respective
counties and to identify those prefectural dispensaries which are not doing an
adequate job of training and supervising counties in their jurisdiction. The
22/ Ledgers, patient cards, treatment cards, reporting sheets.
22/  Bank supervision missions will also be able to use the registry reports
to supervise project progress and to identify program topics and
counties which require special focus.



- 26 -
registry and its associated forms and reports will provide the most important
tool for PTP supervision and monitoring.
Institutional Strengthening - Tuberculosis (US$34.3 million, base costs)
5.17      A Tuberculosis Project Office (TPO) has been established (March
1991) under the Division of Chronic Infectious Diseases, Department of
Epidemic Diseases Prevention, MOPH. It has been provided with offices,
equipment and a core group of full time staff, The TPO is responsible for
implementation and supervision of the project at the national level. It would
supervise implementation of the Tuberculosis Policy Package by participating
provinces, provide training for provincial level supervisory staff to manage
their own PTPs, develop specifications and plan procurement of drugs and
equipment, and monitor and evaluate overall progress of the project.
Assurances were obtained from the Borrower at negotiations that it will
maintain the TPO with facilities. budgets. functions and staffing acceptable
to the Association throughout the period of project implementation. The TPO
would be assisted in exercising its responsibilities by the Tuberculosis
Control Center (TCC), which would report administratively and for budgetary
purposes to the TPO. The TCC will be responsible for coordinating the
provinces in operational research on tuberculosis control and for operation of
the national reference laboratory. In addition, the TCC will: monitor and
recommend to the TPO needed improvements in standards and regulations for
tuberculosis control; manage the national tuberculosis training program for
organizing the initial and subsequent national level training. This would
include microscopy training, program management training, field training bases
at five demonstration counties in Hebei province, national level data
collection and analysis training, supervision and evaluation procedures
training and help to prepare and host national meetings on tuberculosis to
assess national program progress and its dissemination. The TCC will also
assist and guide training programs carried out in the PTPs. Assurances were
obtained from the Borrower at negotiations that it will maintain the TCC
throughout the period of project implementation with facilities. budgets,
functions and staffine acceptable to the Association,
5.18      Provincial Tuberculosis Program.  (US$4.4 million)  Under the
leadership of the provincial health bureau, a provincial tuberculosis
dispensary will be established&L2 or reorganized to be responsible for the
overall PTP, including management, budgeting, supplies, training and
supervision of the tuberculosis program for the province (US$1.4 million
equivalent). The dispensary would consolidate, computerize and monitor for
targeting of supervision the county registry and reporting data (the forms
I1/ All but three provinces now have a provincial dispensary. The
responsibilities, size and scope of work of each existing dispensary will
be adjusted to be in accordance with the policy package (Annex 3). Those
which are administratively part of, or share directorships with, provincial
or other tuberculosis hospitals will be reorganized to be administratively,
and budgetarily, responsible to the provincial health bureau, division of
epidemic prevention.



- 27 -
attached to Annex 3) and would submit quarterly, consolidated reports in
agreed format to the TPO/TCC.
5.19      To improve bacteriological services and assure microscopy quality,
& reference laboratory will be established or upgraded as a unit within the
provincial dispensary. Where possible this laboratory will share the campus
and buildings of the provincial epidemic prevention station laboratories. No
provincial dispensary or reference laboratory should be administratively
attached to or located within the campus of a tuberculosis hospital, nor
should dispensaries share directorship or staff with hospitals. Where a
separate accommodation is justified this will be provided by the project. The
reference laboratory will be primarily responsible to supervise the provincial
network of microscopy centers and to train dispensary teclnicians. This would
be done in cooperation with prefectural tuberculosis laboratories. The second
priority of the reference laboratory should be to determine reliable primary
and secondary resistance patterns in the province and to advise PTP management
in taking appropriate action in case the pattern of resistance is out of the
provincial range. Total civil works for this component are estimated to cost
US$2.9 million equivalent. Equipment for the provincial dispensary and its
reference laboratory will be provided under the project. A detailed package
of acceptable main items of equipment was agreed (US$150,000) during
appraisal.
5.20      Health Education.  (US$1.4 million)  For tuberculosis control the
most important aspect of health education is patient (and family) commitment
to strict adherence and completion of the chemotherapy regimen. A variety of
health education material need to be prepared, tested and disseminated for
this purpose - some aimed at physician education to build counseling and
communications skills, and some aimed et patients and their families. The
provincial dispensaries would cooperate with the TPO/TCC in the collaborative
development and testing of materials (US$400,000 equivalent). Provinces would
be responsible for production of approved and tested materials which suit
their needs (US$1 million equivalent).
5.21      Program Implementation.  (US$19.3 million)  Regular, frequent
supervision of the dispensaries at each level will be critical to ensuring
implementation of the Tuberculosis Policy Package provisions, particularly the
appropriate use of the new registry system to ansure improved diagnosis,
chemotherapy and case management. Provincial and prefectural dispensary
supervisors must be mobile and have adequate operating budgets. Vehicles
(US$6.1 million), their operating costs (US$4.2 million equivalent) and
incremental recurrent costs to undertake county-level supervision and to
adjust dispensary staff remuneration at all levels as part of the Tuberculosis
Policy Package (which prohibits charging for services), as well as costs for
national and provincial management meetings, are provided in the project (US$9
million equivalent).
5.22      Training and Technical Assistance.  (US$9 million)  Training and
technical assistance will be crucial to the ability of dispensary managers and
staff at all levels to successfully adopt modern supervised, short-course
chemotherapy and the Tuberculosis Policy Package. From April 1, 1991 pilot
programs to develop and field test registry materials, training modules,



- 28 -
supervision methods and operational procedures have been underway in five
counties in Hebei province. These counties will form the core national
training field base for the project during implementation.  'hrough December,
1991 operational methods and trairning procedures will continue to be tested
and refined in the Hebei pilot counties. Methods, procedures anid forms
adopted are in accordance with the Tuboerculosis Policy Package.
5.23      Basic training equipment (US$170,000) will be provided for each
provincial dispensary training center, along with rehabIlitation or
construction of training space as needed (US$800,000). The costs of
conducting the training programs (US$6.8 million) and of materials
(US$390,000) are included. Foreign and domestic technical assistance
(US$340,000) to further develop training modules, to evaluate course impact
and to assess overall training program progress in order to modify and improve
training modules will be required. Training abroad (US$390,000) will be
provided for select staff from each province to build capacity for program
management and future operational leadership.
5.24      Training of dispensary workers at each level, and for the village
doctors who would provide the first line of supervision for chemotherapy for
most patients, would be provided by the provincial dispensary. Training for
program supervisory staff at each level will be provided by the provincial
dispensary, and provincial dispensaries will receive regular supervisory and
program management training from the TCC.
5.25      Operational Research  (US$200,000)  under the project will help to
improve management, control techniques and develop new drugs, control measures
and approaches throughout project implementation. The main research subjects
are expected to include: improved methods for bacteriology of tuberculosis;
assessment of the cost-effectiveness of sputum culture and drug sensitivity
testing in tuberculosis control programs; acceptable approaches for fully
supervised domiciliary chemotherapy, particularly in rural areas;
cost-effectiveness of passive and active case-finding methods; and,
epidemiological studies on the containment of drug resistant tubercle bacilli.
5.26      Within this sub-component the costs of modest foreign technical
assistance (US$40,000) in operational research will be charged to the
provinces, who would also share the financing costs of the research program
(US$170,000) to be coordinated and directed by the TCC. The WHO global
tuberculosis control progrdm would provide guidance and support in operational
research to the TCC in implementation of the research in selected provinces.
Schistosomiasis Control. (US$108.4 million, base costs)
5.27      The following sub-components of investments and activities will be
funded by the schistosomiasis control component of the project as the main
elements of the national schistosomiasis control program during a five year
period (1992-1996). The participating provinces will implement the project in
accordance with the Schistosomiasis Policy Statement agreed with the
government and presented in Annex 6. This policy statement sets out the
general objectives of the schistosomiasis control program, defines the
approach to be used and elaborates on the specific technical strategies to be



- 29 -
employed. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Borrower will
en_ure that each province Participating in the schistosomiasis component of
the project will implements its schistosomiasis control program in accordance
with the Schistosomiasis Policy Statement.
5.28      Case Identification.   (US$26.4 million)  Case identification of
infected persons will be accomplished primarily through the Kato Katz stool
examinations (and under certain conditions by serological tests). Hatching
tests will be employed for identification of infected cattle and buffalo.
Basic equipment (US$2.7 million for microscopes, incubators, refrigerators,
etc.) and vehicles (US$1.9 million for jeeps, mini-vans and bicycles) will be
supplied to those ASTs at various administrative levels which do not have them
or where the equipment is old or insufficient in quantity. Civil works
(US$1,6 million) for renovation to existing ASTs and new construction where
justified is also provided. Other materials (US$5.2 million) for case
identification (glassware, stool sample containers, buckets, rubber gloves,
antigen, syringes, etc.) will allow appropriate expansion of the case finding
activities from the current low levels to implement the new strategy.
Incremental recurrent costs for supplemental staff remuneration and temporary
labor (US$10 million), operating costs (US$3.3 million), and vehicle and
equipment operations and maintenance (US$1.6 million) are included in this
sub-component. Principles for conduct of case identification activities for
humans and for animals are included in the Schistosomiasis Policy Statement.
Details of how case identification is performed are contained in Annex 5.
5.29      Chemotherapy.  (US$44.9 million)  Treatment of infected persons and
animals, and mass- and selective- chemotherapy of at-risk populations and
population groups with high levels of prevalence will be done solely with
praziquantel. The dosage of drug to be given has been standardized, and the
operational procedures3' to be used by each province in administering the
drug will be continuously reviewed by the MOPH through field supervision to
ensure cost-effective practices are being followed. Purchase of praziquantel
(US$33.8 million) in sufficient quantities to treat the populations at risk in
accordance with the Schistosomiasis Policy Statement will allow rapid
reduction and control of morbidity, prevention of advanced and acute
infections and reduce transmission of the disease. Other materials (US$2
million), vehicles for the treatment teams and their supervisors (US$640,000),
and civil works in a few ASTs (US$600,000) are included in the investment
costs. Recurrent costs of treatment activities (US$7.8 million) include staff
supplements and temporary labor, operating costs and vehicle operation and
maintenance. Well-established procedures are in place for cooperation with
Animal Husbandry offices to test and treat cattle and buffalo in the endemic
areas.
3/  The drug will normally be administered under the supervision of the
schistosomiasis field team (in the presence of a team doctor) in a
single dose. Present practices in some provinces to keep mass- and
selective-chemotherapy patients in bed, and to excuse patients from work
for a day or more will be discontinued.



- 30 -
5.30      Snail Detection and Control.  (US$37.2 million)  Where possible,
traditional methods of snail control will be employed by making minor
environmental modifications. 33 Snail control by mollusciciding will only
be carried out in selected areas in accordance witn the Schistosomiasis Policy
Statement. Only niclosamide, an environmentally appropriate molluscicide,
will be used for the national program.  It will be employed through focal
mollusciciding -- i.e., application along river and lake beaches, ditches or
canals near the residential quarters where contact with water is frequent and
unavoidable, and which have a high density of snails and at sites such as
piers and ferry landings, mooring spots for fishermen and boatmen, housing
areas for temporary labor, marketplaces, and cattle pens and pigsties. At
negotiations. assurances were obtained that the Borrower will ensure that the
provinces use only niclosamide as an acceptable molluscicide for the
schistosomiasis control program.
5.31      Project investments would include equipment for mollusciciding and
for snail control (US$1.9 million), vehicles for mollusciciding teams and
tractors for plowing in some areas (US$1.5 million), civil works for storage
of molluscicide and garages for vehicles and spraying equipment (US$1.3
million). Niclosamide will be purchased for estimated program needs (US$17.8
million). Other materials (rubber boots, hoses, gloves, masks, etc.) and
items for snail survey (US$5.9 million) and incremental recurrent and
operations and maintenance costs (1S$8.8 million) complete this sub-component.
Institutional Strengthening - Schistosomiasis (US$37 million, base costs)
5.32      The division of schistosomiasis control of the DEDC is responsible
for implementation and supervision of the schistosomiasis component at the
nat.Lonal level. It would supervise implementation of the Schistosomiasis
Policy Statement by participating provinces, coordinate the provision of
health education and training by provincial staff and consultants, develop
specifications and plan procurement of drugs and equipment, coordinate
operational research, and monitor and evaluate overall progress of the
project.  The MOPH will provide the division with additional staff and
equipment for this purpose.
5.33      Health Education. (US$10.5 million)  A well designed health
education program is essential for sustaining the morbidity control strategy
supported by the project. The purpose will be to communicate knowledge of
disease prevention and self-protection. The program will rely on the existing
structure of health education offices composed of the existing provincial
health education center and the education divisions of AES units of
prefectural and county levels. There are also some AST health education
staff. Various mass media and health education tools to reach different
groups of population will be used. The MOPH has already sought technical
assistance from abroad to help develop and test details of the program. A
"/  These include filling low areas, building low dams and sluices to
contain snail movements and control wazer levels, plowing and compacting
the soil to kill snails, and small infrastructure improvements to limit
contact of the population with snail infested water.



- 31 -
domestic advisory group for schistosomiasis health education under the
leadership of the DEDC has been established to serve as the main counterpart
for the technical assistance and will guide the continued evolution of the
health education programs and materials during project implementation. This
group will help avoid duplication of effort in the various provinces.
Because of the newness of modern health education methods in China, materials
appropriate to the educational and cultural characteristics of the target
audience will be experimentally developed and tested for effectiveness before
dissemination. Production of media including comics, radio, television and
other innovative techniques, especially for school health education, will be
contracted out i:or production after testing and validation. Budgets for
development, te!;ting and production of materials total US$6 million.
Equipment for health education (US$1.8 million), vehicles for health education
teams (US$774,000) and construction for health education centers in selected
places (US$613,000) complete the investment costs for this sub-component.
Recurrent costs for operations, and vehicle and equipmenF operating costs are
estimated at US$1.3 million.
5.34      Trairing.  (US$6.1 million)  Short-term training (US$5 million)
will be provided for schistosom.asis control staff in the technical details
and procedures of program implementation in accordance with the revised
strategy provided by the Schistosomiasis Policy Statement. This will help the
program move quickly toward fully employing more effective case identification
practices and mass- and selective-chemotherapy and snail control practices
than today is the case. The Schistosomiasis Policy Statement yields the
potential for sharply improved program efficiency and mt'zh lower costs per
treatment administered. Training will be important in realizing this
potential as staff will need to substantially change their present field
practices to improve productivity, and lower and middle level staff have been
relatively neglected in their technical knowledge and skill training in recent
years. Program managers, health educators, su.veillance staff and others also
require skills upgrading and a broader perspective of management knowledge and
practices to make the program work better. Long-term training (US$430,000)
programs for these staff will help to meet this need. Selected staff from
each province will benefit from overseas fellowships (US$600,000) which will
lay the foundation for better epidemiological, surveillance and management
skills needed for the long term.
5.35      Program Management.  (US$15 million)  The program requires a
systematic and sustained capacity-building effort in certain areas, including
the capacity to monitor and evaluate the program, a4- both central and
provincial levels. The project would provide civil wcrP.s (US$550,000) at the
provincial and prefectural levels to provide or rehabilitate office space
where it is urgently needed. Office equipment (US$600,000) and equipment for
the monitoring and evaluation system (US$280,000) would provide program
managers with the basics of running the large program, ensuring timely
reporting and dissemination of instructions and guidance. Vehicles to provide
mobility for program supervisors (US$1.1 million) and incremental recurrent
costs (US$12.4 million) for management and guidance meetings at all levels,
office suppl5es, intensive supervisory field visits, and equipment and vehicle
operations and maintenance are also budgeted. Detailed forms for monitoring
program implementation at each administrative level have been developed and



- 32 -
summary reports aggregating key information for monitoring and evaluation will
be promptly prepared at each level. Receipt of province-level reports would
be a routine component of the periodic progress reports to IDA and would help
to target future supervision visits by Bank missions.
5.36      Surveillance.  (US$1 million)  Disease surveillance will be
undertaken on an ongoing basis under the project as part of the routine work
of the AST at each level. The objective is to determine the epidemiological
changes and trends of schistosomiasis during implementation of the technical
strategy in order to provide the basis for its adjustment and improvement at
the administrative village level. In the past, little attention was paid to
surveillance until endemicity increased and program managers would then
"react", but on the basis of incomplete, probably unrepresentative, data. The
previous system of a limited number of fixed surveillance points for intensive
screening over a number of years is inappropriate for identifying the changing
patterns of disease prevalence and intensity throughout an endemic area. Such
surveillance also tells program managers nothing about overall field program
efficiency and appropriateness. Instead a surveillance system that regularly
determines trends through stratified random sampling system will be
implemented under the project. Equipment (US$130,000) and vehicles for the
surveillance teams (US$340,000) will be provided. Incremental recurrent costs
of establishing and running the system are estimated at US$550,000. Annex 7
provides a description of the revised system including management
responsibilities, indices and surveillance methodologies to be employed.
5.37      Operational Research.  (US$4.3 million)  Operational research to
improve the morbidity control strategy and to ensure its cost-effective
application in the field, and for the longer term, will be the objective of
this sub-component. It would include studies to help to raise the quality of
field management and program management, improve snail control techniques and
develop new health education, management, monitoring and evaluation and
surveillance approaches. Provincial institutes and program managers have
already suggested a long list of topics for research. Priority topics for the
operational research program are presented in Annex 8.
5.38      While most such research would necessarily be carried out in the
provinces, the management of this sub-component needs to be centrally directed
and monitored to avoid duplication, poor research designs and lack of sound
policy analysis because of inexperience with operational research. In
addition, the questions to be examined should have broad scope and
significance for the program and there must be a forum for the exchange of
ideas and dissemination of findings among researchers and provinces. There is
little experience in China, and less in the provinces, with designing and
wsnaging such operational research, or in developing specific policy
recommendations on the basis of research findings. To provide for this in the
sub-component, and to build capacity for these skills in China, the Central
Government will establish a Joint Research Management Committee (JRMC)
consisting of senior Chinese scientists and specialists from the Special
Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases (TDR) in Geneva
jointly sponsored by the WHO, UNDP and the World Bank. TDR would support this
project sub-component by contributing specialist expertise to the Committee.
Project financing would defray the cost of additional external advisors, and



- 33 -
JRMC travel and national and international meeting costs. The broad terms of
reference of the Committee would be to manage operational research sub-
component of the project by inviting and reviewing proposals for research,
vetting and requiring improvement of these as needed and deciding which will
be financed, supervising the studies underway, and analyzing and recommending
to government appropriate public policy action on the basis of the findings of
completed studies. The first meeting of the Committee to work out detailed
terms of reference, procedures for review of proposals and approval of
operational research funding will be held in January 1992. Nominees to the
Committee, including economists and sociologists as well as tropical disease
experts, have been exchanged between the TDR and the government.
5.39      Operational research funding for schistoson.ias's control provided
by the project will be administered by the Committee, which should function
throughout the project. Regular reporting of Committee meetings and their
decisions would be included in project progress reports to the Association.
At negotiations assurances were obtained that the Borrower will establish and
maintain during the vroject implementation period. in cooperation with the TDR
and with arrangements. functions and staffing acceptable to the Association. a
Joint Research Management Committee to review and approve, monitor. and advise
on implementation of the findings of oRerational research proposed for
schistosomiasis control,
Central Project Components, (US$4 million)
5.40      For the TPO and TCC to implement their responsibilities the project
includes a small component of funding in support of tuberculosis control
activities at the national level. About US$1.9 million is provided for the
TPO and TCC to receive necessary equipment, vehicles, additional staff, civil
works for the tuberculosis training center, budgets for training programs (for
program supervision), overseas training and technical assistance as well as
incremental funding for supervision of project implementation. A simple
national reference laboratory would be established and equipped. Operational
research in key national program questions would also be provided.
-.41      To assist the DEDC .o fulfill its responsibilities for the
schistosomiasis component implementation and management, project investments
include a small central component to strengthen national activities. Project
investments (US$1.1 million) include necessary equipment, a vehicle and
additional staff and incremental operational costs for supervision and
management of the national program, funding for the national training program
activities (short- and long-term), and operational research and technical
assistance in support of the national program and for preparation of future
investments. Training programs for provincial level and lower staff and would
be coordinated by the DEDC and the Institute of Parasitic Diseases of the
Academy of Preventive Medicine, in cooperation with provincial level
schistosomiasis institutes. Overseas training for a few key DEDC and
Institute staff are included and technical assistance and operational research
funding is included to finance costs (transportation, meeting and consultant
fees) associated with the Joint Research Management Committee and to address
key study topics which cut across provincial level concerns.



- 34 -
5.42      Control of Other Key Infectious Diseases.  (US$1 million)  In
addition to the central level activities in support of tuberculosis and
schistosomiasis control components, the project includes a small sub-component
aimed at preparation and research of control alternatives for other key
infectious diseases. Development of research on improved control strategies
and better disease surveillance, and preparation of potential future projects,
for these diseases are a high priority. The project will assist with sub-
components for: (i) the sexually transmitted diseases and HIV surveillance
(US$480,000); and, (ii) epidemiology of hepatitis and the control of
hepatitis B through immunization (US$520,000). Details of these sub-
components are presented in Annex 9. The project would finance selected
equipment and reagents, training, technical assistance and operational
research. The MOPH technical units responsible for STDs, AIDS and infectious
disease would manage these activities. At negotiations assurance were
obtained that in carrying out research activit'es for other key infectious
diseases the Borrower will by October 31 of each year. provide to the
Association for its review and comment. a detailed proposal of the research to
be carried out during the coming calendar year.
VI. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs
6.1       The total cost of the project components is estimated at Y1,591
million or US$271.0 million equivalent, net of duties and taxes.  The foreign
exchange costs are estimated at about Y150 million (US$26.2 million)
equivalent to about 10 percent of project costs. The estimated costs of the
project by component and by expenditure category are summarized below in
Tables 6.1 and 6.2. Summary project costs are presented in Annex 10.
Detailed project costs by province and sub-component are contained in the
three project cost volumes available in the project file.
6.2       Costs are based on mid-1991 prices for similar items of equipment,
drugs and other contracts recently procured. Civil works costs are derived
from space estimates and unit costs by province based on the requirements for
rehabilitation and new construction in small institutions. The cost range of
the various types of rehabilitation and construction is US$75-260 per square
meter, with variation due to the differing costs of civil works in provinces
and the higher unit costs inherent where laboratories are being built.
Equipment costs are based on detailed equipment lists appraised for each
province for both disease control activities and for institutional development
sub-components. The cost of other inputs needed are based on detailed studies
of unit costs for services, done by MOPH during project preparation. These
include consumable materials and incremental costs of operation. Attention
was paid to estimating incremental recurrent costs so that provincial
governments can make adequate and timely provision of counterpart costs which
will vary over time.
6.3       Quantities of anti-tuberculosis drugs and praziquantel expected to
be required by each province during the project have been calculated on
population, disease prevalence, program implementation and estimates of



- 35 -
epidemiological progress. Project costs are based on the total number of
cases expected to be identified and treated, and on the average 1991 unit
costs for specific drug types. There is no reasonable way to make precise
estimates of the quantity of molluscicide required for any given degree of
snail control. Its quantities have been estimated in accordance with the
criteria in the Schistosomiasis Policy Statement (Annex 6), but subject to the
principle that the expenditures for snail control should not exceed those for
chemotherapy in each province.
6.4       Local technical assistance will mainly be provided by staff from
academic and research institutions in China. Foreign technical assistance is
expected mainly to be provided by staff of public sector and international
agencies. Local training costs vary depending on the duration, level and type
of course. Foreign training is estimated to cost an average of US$10,000 per
study year. Price contingencies have been included in all cost estimates as
follows: local price contingencies of 8 percent in 1992, and 5 percent each
year thereafter; foreign price contingencies of 1.1 percent in 1992 and 2.95
percent each year thereafter. Physical contingencies of 5 percent of base
cost have been added to civil works and drugs.
B. Financing Plan
6.5       The Association would finance about 48 percent of total project
expenditures, with the balance being financed by the provincial governments
(51 percent) and the central government (1 percent). IDA will finance 46
percent of the national schistosomiasis control program in project provinces
during 1992-1996 and about 50 percent of tuberculosis control activities in
project provinces during 1992-1998. The Credit would cover all direct and
most indirect foreign exchange costs (US$25.3 million) and approximately 43
percent of local costs (equivalent to US$104.3 million). Some indirect
foreign exchange costs would be financed by the central and provincial
governments. More detailed financing plan information is summarized in Table
6.3 below and shown in detail in Annex 11.
6.6       On-lending arrangements.  The Government would on-lend SDR 94.42
million to the project provinces at no interest, repayable over 20 years,
including a 10 year grace period. Project provinces would assume the foreign
exchange risk for credit proceeds disbursed for foreign exchange costs and the
MOF would assume the risk for expenditures made for local costs. The
provinces would pay a commitment fee of 0.5 percent p.a. and a service charge
of 1 percent p.a. to the Ministry of Finance. SDR 1.48 million would be made
available to the Ministry of Public Health. These funds would be provided to
the MOPH with the same terms as provided to the provinces but, as the MOPH has
no sources of revenue with which to service debt, the MOF will provide MOPH
with additional financial allocations with which to make these debt service
payments. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Borrower will
make the proceeds of the credit available to the MOPH and to the provinces on
terms and conditions acceRtable to the Association. and that the Borrower will
ensure that the provinces make the groceeds of the credit available to
subsidiary levels of government and to health institutions on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association. At the provincial, prefectural and
county levels neither the health sector, nor specific health institutions,



- 36 -
will be responsible for any debt service. The provincial governments will
vary on-lending terms to their counties according to the financial
capabilities of counties, thereby taking into account the needs of the poorest
counties.
6.7       Financial Impact and Affordability.  Most project expenditures
(recurrent and investment) wi1l be incremental to amounts nIow being spent from
public sources in the project provinces. For schistosomiasis, however, field
activities will financed in part through reprogramming existing field work
(and budgets) toward activities and methods much more productive than 'hose
currently employed. Credit financed expenditures for praziquantel and
molluscicide will free budget funds currently being spent on those items for
use in other project activities, mainly case-finding, training and health
education.
6.8       For tuberculosis there will be very little replacement of existing
expenditures through the use of credit funds simply because budgets finance
little for tuberculosis control now. However, there will be a very
substantial shift in the sources of finance for tuberculosis control - from
the patient to the public budget - as consequence of services being freely
provided to eligible patients and dispensaries being fully compensated for
fixed cost deficits which they now face. This will be accompanied by sharp
improvements in efficacy and efficiency of services rendered because
inappropriate and useless medication and tests will no longer be provided, and
staff will have to cease performing activities which maximize income to their
unit work. They will instead be able to concentrate on achieving good
diagnosis, cure and registry of infectious patients.
6.9       At the end of the project, annual program costs for continuing the
project activities will be approximately those financed during the last year
of the project, minus savings attributable to declines in the prevalence and
thus treatment requirements, for both diseases. Debt service payments from
the provinces to the MOF will add about 1 percent to existing levels of
budgetary spending for health during the 10 year repayment period. For the
tuberculosis program, final year costs will thus be about Y72 million (US$15
million equivalent), representing only about a 1 percent increase over the
approximate budgetary expenditure of the twelve provinces on health services
today. These costs should continue to decline, in real terms, at about 5-7
percent annually reflecting the disease control gains. These might be
expected to level out about a decade later at about one-half of final project
expenditures and then decline more slowly for the next 50 years until the
present cohorts of the population which are infected with tuberculosis have
passed away. It would seem likely that all provincial governments would be
able to afford to continue the program.
6.10      For schistosomiasis, final year project expenditures will be about
Y135 million (US$25.6 million equivalent), or only 64 percent of the current
annual budgetary appropriations (Y210 million, or US$39 9 million, in 1989)
for schistosomiasis control. The project will result in sufficient drop of
prevalence and sufficient improvement of cost-effectiveness of program
activities that amounts needing to be allocated for maintaining
schistosomiasis control after project completion can be expected to decline



- 37 -
further. Much of this will depend, however, on improved management and the
results of operational research during the project to identify precisely the
most effective elements and approaches to maintaining control of low levels of
prevalence and endemicity.
6.11      For tuberculosis, it is worth noting that disease reduction gains
achieved under the project will not be eroded by the natural epidemiology of
the disease even if tuberculosis program efforts completely cease at the end
of the project. Future declines in the incidence and annual risk of infection
would slow however, at worst resuming the pattern they have displayed during
the past decade. This would still represent a major success, imply a very low
cost per year of life saved and fully justifies the project investment. It is
fully expected, however, that with success of the program, few provincial
governments will wish to return to the pre-project situation and will
therefore make the very modest commitment of budgetary funds required to
continue free short-course chemotherapy for all eligible tuberculosis
patients.



- 38 -
Table 6.1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT
YUAN MILLION               USS MILLION          X Foreign      X Total
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange    Base Cost
A. TB - CONTROL PROGRAM
1. Diagnostic Sorvices        64.9      7.6     72.5      12.2    1.4    13.6          10.5          5.4
2. Chemotherapy              196.8    21.9    218.7       36.9    4.1    41.0          10.0         16.3
3. Case Manageomnt            72.5      0.0     72.5      13.6    0.0    13.6           0.0          5.4
D. TB - INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1. Prov. TB Program           23.1      0.3     23.4       4.3    0.1      4.4          1.5          1.7
2. Hoalth Education            7.5      0.0       7.5      1.4    0.0      1.4          0.0          0.6
3. Pxogram Implement.         79.9    22.9    102.8       15.0    4.3    19.3          22.2          7.7
4. Train & Tech. Asst.        43.7      4.4     48.1       8.2    0.8      9.0          9.1          3.6
5. Operatlonal Research        0.9      0.2       1.1      0.2    0.0      0.2         20.2          0.1
C. SCHISTO - CONTROL PROGRAM
1. Case Identification       134.2      6.5    140.6      25.2    1.2    26.4           4.6         10.5
2. Chemotherapy              218.8    20.5    239.2       41.0    3.8    44.9           8.5         17.8
S. Snail Detect. & Cont.   178.6    19.5    198.1         33.5    3.7    37.2           9.8         14.8
D. SCHISTO - INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1. Health Education           48.8      7.3     56.1       9.2    1.4    10.5          13.0          4.2
2. Training                   29.4      3.2      32.6      5.5    0.6      6.1          9.9          2.4
3. Program ManAgement         73.4      6.4     79.8      13.8    1.2    15.0           8.0          5.9
4. Surveillance                3.8      1.6      5.4       0.7    0.3      1.0         29.2          0.4
5. Operational Research       18.8      4.4     23.2       3.5    0.8      4.3         18.8          1.7
S. CENTRAL PROJECT COHMPNENT
1. Central - TB Program        7.1      2.8       9.9      1.3    0.5      1.9         28.3          0.7
2. Central - Schisto Prog.   4.4        1.5      5.9       0.8    0.3      1.1         25.5          0.4
3. Other Diseases              3.4      1.9       5.4      0.6    0.4      1.0         35.9          0.4
Total Baseline Costs           1209.8   132.8   1342.6    227.0   24.9   251.9              9.9        100.0
Physical Contingencies        12.2      1.1      13.3      2.3    0.2      2.5          8.3          1.0
Price Contingencies          218.4    16.3    234.7       15.6    1.1    16.6           6.4          6.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            1440.4   150.3   1590.6    244.8   26.2   271.0              9.7       107.6
Note: Totals may not all add due to roundLng.
Project financed goods are exempt from Lmport duties and taxes.



- 39 -
Table 6. 2; SUMMARY PROJECT COST BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(US$ Million)
YUAN MILLION                 US$ MILLION            X Forelgn   X Total
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total            Excha, &e   Base Cost
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                  49.9      0.0      49.9        9.4    0.0       9.4          0.0        3.7
B. Equipment                    26.5    27.0       53.6        5.0    5.0    10.1          50.5         4.0
C. Vehicles                     27.3    39.5       66.8        5.1     7.4    12.5         59.2         5.0
D.  tolluscicide                85.2      9.5      94.7       16.0    1.8    17.8          10.0         7.1
E. Drugs                       360.5    40.0    400.6        67.6    7.5    75.2           10.0        29.8
F. Health Edu. Materials        40.0      0.0      40.0        7.5    0.0       7.5          0.0        3.0
G. Other Materials             129.7      0.0    129.7       24.3    0.0    24.3            0.0         9.7
H. Technical Assistance          0.2      8.6       8.8        0.0    1.6       1.6        98.1         0.7
I. Training
1. Local Training           67.6       1.6      69.2      12.7     0.3    13.0           2.3        5.2
2. Training Abroad           0.0       6.5       6.5       0.0    1.2       1.2        100.0         0.5
Subtotal                        67.6      8.1      75.7      12.7      1.5    14.2         10.7         5.7
J. Oper. Research               22.9      0.0      22.9        4.3    0.0       4.3         0.0         1.7
Total Investment Costs            809.7   132.8    942.5    151.9   24.9   176.8               14.1       70.2
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Staff Salary & Temp Lab 102.6          0.0    102.6        19.2    0.0    19.2            0.0        7.6
B. Other Operating Costs   235.9          0.0    235.9       44.2    0.0    44.3            0.0        17.6
C. Operations & Maint.          22.3      0.0      22.3        4.2    0.0       4.2         0.0         1.7
D. Vehicle Oper. & Maint.    39.3         0.0      39.3        7.3    0.0       7.4         0.0         2.9
Total Recurrent Costs             400.1       0.0    400.1       75.1    0.0    75.1            0.0       29.8
Total Baseline Costs             1209.8   132.8   1342.6    227.0   24.9   251.9                9.9      100.0
Physical Contingencies          12.2      1.1      13.3        2.3     0.2      2.5         8.3         1.0
Price Contingencies            218.4    16.4    234.7         15.6    1.1      16.6          6.4        6.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              1440.4   150.3   1590.6    244.8   26.2   271.0                9.7      107.6
Note: Totals may not all add due to rounding.



- 40 -
Table 6.3: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
Source                     Local         Foreign       Total       Percentage
Provinces               138.7           0.5         139.2           51%
Central Government        1.9           0.3           2.2            1%
IDA                     104.3          25.3         129.6           48%
TOTAL                 244.8          26.2         27i.0          100%
Note: Totals may not all add due to rounding.
VII. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management.
7.1       Proiect Management.  The MOPH has well-established systems and
offices responsible for accounting, procurement and project management at both
the national level and in most of the provinces which would participate in the
proposed project. The Foreign Loan Office (FLO) of the MOPH would continue to
play its coordinating function for all aspects of project implementation and
for liaison with the Association. Each participating province has already
established a project office to coordinate project implementation within the
local government. The Disbursements and Accounting Division of the FLO would,
together with the Mir.Lstry of Finance as appropriate, train and supervise
staff from the public health and finance bureaus in each participating
province to maintain and regularly submit to MOF and MOPH detailed project
accounts for consolidation. The FLO would coordinate the work of the
technical bureaus with other relevant departments of the MOPH (e.g. DEDC,
Epidemic Prevention Department, Planning and Budgeting Department, the Health
Policy and Legislation Department, etc.) and it would continue to coordinate
communications with the Association and with the provinces, help to facilitate
a good understanding of Bank Group procedures and project objectives by other
units in the MOPH and be the main channel for the Association to raise
concerns and issues within the MOPH. At negotiations. assurances were
obtained that the Borrower will maintain the ELO within MOPH throughout the
Rroiect implementation period with approRriate functions and staff.
7.2       Technical guidance and supervision of the project will be provided
by the TPO and the TCC for tuberculosis and by the DEDC, Division of
Schistosomiasis Control. Both units have already been allocated and recruited
additional staff. The TPO has moved to new offices and purchased basic
equipment. These units of the MOPH will be responsible for planning,
organizing and supervising the implementation of the overall project. In each



- 41 -
participating province, the provincial tuberculosis dispensary or office of
schistosomiasis control will be responsible for project implementation and
technical guidance to lower levels. The Borrower will bear a considerable
supervision load for the project. Training for staff, incremental operational
budgets and other suppo.t for fulfillment of this role have been included in
the project. Supervision requirements for IDA are not expected to be
unusually heavy, despite the project's coverage, if the Borrower performs
supervision functions as planned. A supervision input of about 13 staff weeks
per year, plus up to 8 staff weeks of additional input by the WHO tuberculosis
program, are planned.
7.3       Project Monitoring and Evaluation.  Detailed reporting forms for
monitoring of project progress have been agreed with the MOPH. For
tuberculosis the report formats and criteria are contained in the Tuberculosis
Policy Package (at the end of Annex 3). Forms to be used for the
schistosomiasis component are in Annex 14. Indicators include both project
input indicators, process steps, and epidemiological and output measures.
Progress indicators will clearly show whether and where project objectives are
being achieved. For both tuberculosis and for schistosomiasis reporting is to
be done quarterly, aggregated at each administrative level and forwarded to
the MOPH. The system is sufficiently specific that counties, prefectures and
provinces which are not making progress on agreed input, process and output
indicators will become evident very quickly and will provide focus for MOPH,
and IDA, supervision efforts. Each province will be asked to provide a report
quarterly to the MOPH on their respective implementation of the Tuberculosis
Policy Package, or Schistosomiasis Policy Statement, as appropriate.
7.4       Project Reportina to IDA.  Quarterly progress reports would also be
submitted to IDA by the MOPH. These reports should consist of the provincial
quarterly reports for tuberculosis together with an analysis thereof (standard
computer software is under development for this purpose). Each quarterly
report should also contain a detailed statement noting which PTPs which may
not yet in full compliance with the TuW rculosis Policy Package and stating
the specific action required to be taken by them to achieve compliance. These
reports would be simultaneously sent to the WHO, which would cooperate with
IDA in review of implementation of this component. For schistosomiasis, the
MOPH would also submit quarterly progress reports to IDA in the form of
province-specific summaries of the tables contained in Annex 14, together with
an aggregate summary for all provinces, plus an detailed statement noting
those provincial schistosomiasis programs which may not yet be in full
compliance with the Schistosomiasis Policy Statement and stating the actions
required to be taken by them to achieve compliance.
B.   Procurement.
7.5       The main items to be procured with credit proceeds are anti-
tuberculosis drugs, praziquantel (for treatment of schistosomiasis),
molluscicide (niclosamide), equipment and vehicles, and technical assistance
to assist with operational research and the establishment and operation of the
disease control programs.  The procurement division of the FLO, MOPH would
coordinate the procurement process, prepare the detailed equipment lists and
technical specifications and obtain the clearance of state agencies. FLO



- 42 -
would organize the bid evaluation teams and would coordinate receipt,
inspection and distribution of goods. The MOPH has selected the International
Tendering Department of the China National Instruments Import and Export
Corporation (INSTRIMPEX) as the tendering and contracting agency for the
project. INSTRIMPEX would use the new standard general procurement documents
agreed between the government and the Bank Group for all ICB.
7.6       Drugs. Molluscicides. Equipment and Vehicles.  Detailed procurement
lists for all goods have been prepared and reviewed by MOPH, the SPC at.d the
Association. FLO would coordinate procurement and group similar items for
purchase under international competitive bidding (ICB). Suitable bid packages
have been prepared by FLO for tendering at the end of 1991 with delivery to
commence in mid-1992. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 7.1
below. Equipment, vehicles, drugs and molluscicide contracts estimated to
cost more than $200,000 equivalent would be procured through ICB in accordance
with the Guidelines. Local manufacturers would be eligible for a margin of
preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent or the prevailing rate of customs
duty, whichever is lower. Contracts estimated to cost between $50,000 and
$200,000 equivalent, in aggregate not exceeding US$5 million, may be procured
through LCB in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
However, FLO would also coordinate and encourage ICB for amounts under
$200,000 to the extent feasible given considerations of economy and
efficiency.
7.7       Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract, and in
aggregate not exceeding $3 million may be procured directly through: (a)
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison and evaluation of written
quotations invited from at least three eligible suppliers; and (b) direct
purchase, of proprietary items or where justified by the need for
standardization. IDA would review the list of items to be procured under
these procedures.
7.8       To meet the most urgent requirements for items needed to start
disease control activities, an initial drug and equipment purchase may be
procured under contracts awarded before January 31, 1992, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to US$5 million on the basis of a comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. This will allow
the essential anti-tuberculosis drugs, praziquantel for schistosomiasis
control, and 120 microscopes for diagnosis of tuberculosis to be ready for use
in the start-up areas of each participating province by early January, 1992.
7.9       Technical Assistance.  Domestic and foreign consultants would be
selected in accordance with IDA Guidelines and would be coordinated and
supervised by the MOPH. Most specialist services are expected to be provided
by individuals from public sector institutions both abroad and from within
China, which specialize in tuberculosis and schistosomiasis control activities
and research. Most technical assistance activities should involve repeated
visits by the specialists to ensure continuity of advice and expertise. The
FLO would provide assistance to the DEDC and TPO in developing terms of
reference and forms of contract to simplify management of technical



- 43 -
assistance, and would maintain close contact with the Association in planning
and implementing technical assistance.
7.10      IDA review prior to contract award and signing, would be required
for equipment, vehicle, .rug, and molluscicide contracts of more than $200,000
equivalent, estimated to cover more than 90 percent of the total value of all
such contracts. ICB procurement is expected to take place through several
tendering exercises each year (a total of 10-15 packages) with most equipment
and vehicles included in a single tender exercise. Drug tenders would provide
for phased delivery to protect against spoilage. Sample post reviews of other
contracts and of direct purchases would be carried out during regular
supervision missions. Because of the small size and highly diversified nature
and location of the technical assistance services for different research and
monitoring activities for this project, IDA prior review of technical
assistance contracts would be limited to those exceeding $25,000 in value.
IDA would have the right to review smaller contracts on an ex-post basis
during supervision. A standard form of contract to be agreed between MOPH and
IDA will be used for contracts under US$25,000.



- 44 -
Table 7.1: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method                    Total
Project Element                      ICB     LCB        Othertl  N.B.F.       Cost
Civil Works                           --       --        --        10.0       10.0
--       --        --        (0.0)    ( 0.0)
Equipment and Vehicles              19.0      1.0        1.6        --        21.6
(19.0)    (1.0)      (1.6)       --       (21.6)
Drugs                               75.0      2.0        6.3         --       83.3
(75.0)    (2.0)      (6.3)                (83.3)
Molluscicides                       16.8      2.0        --         --        18.8
(16.8)    (2.0)                           (18.8)
Health Education Materials            --       --        --        15.3       15.3
--      --         --        (0.0)      (0.0)
Other Materials                       --       --        --        19.9       19.9
--  --  --  (0.0)   (0.0)
Technical Assistance                  --       --        1.8        --         1.8
(1.8)      --        (1.8)
Training                              --       --       15.3        --        15.3
(1.3)      --        (1.3)
Operational Research                  --       --        4.6        --         4.6
--  --  (2.8)       --        (2.8)
Incremental Recurrent Costs          --       --         --        80.4       80.4
(0.0)     (0.0)
Total                     110.8       5.0       29.6     125.6      271.0
(110.8)    (5.0)    (13.8)       (0.0)   (129.6)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-financed.
-i Includes direct purchases, local shopping and Bank consultant selection
procedures.



- 4J-
C. Disbursements
7.11      The proposed credit of SDR 95.9 million (US$129.6 million
equivalent) would be disbursed over a period of about seven years. The
expected disbursement schedule is shown in --nex 121V. Disbursements would
be made against the following categories or Jnpenditures:
1. for the tuberculosis control component i. participating provinces -
(a)  100 percent of foreign expenditures, aid 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) for good; (drugs, equipment and
vehicles); and 75 percent of local expenditures of these itews
procured locally (US$56 million);
(b) 100 percent of the cost of consultant services and overseas
training (US$700,000);
(c) 65 percent of the cost of operational research studies
(US$200,000);
2. for the schistosomiasis control component in participating provinces -
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures, and 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) for goods (drugs, molluscicides,
equipment and vehicles); and 75 percent of lozal expenditures of
these items procured locally (US$67.7 million);
(b) 100 percent of the cost of consultant services and overseas
training (US$700,000);
(c) 65 percent of the cost of operational research studies (US$2.3
million);
3. for the centrally implemented component of the project -
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures, and 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) for goods (drugs, equipment and
vehicles); and 75 percent of local expenditures of items procured
locally (US$700,000);
(b) 100 percent of the cost of consultant services, operational
research studies and overseas training (US$1.3 million).
At the end of 1996, the period for support of the schistosomiasiD control
program will be finished and the prevalence reductions achieved should allow a
maintenance phase of schistosomiasis control to be implemented b.y the project
provinces at affordable costs (see para 6.10 above). Amounts not used for
2/  Expected disbursements are conservatively forecast on the basis of the
disbursement profile for all sectors in China. If project
implementation goes smoothly disbursements will be somewhat more rapid.



- 41a -
schistosomiasis control categories would be reallocated to tuberculosis
control at the beginning of 1997.
7.12      SRecial Accounts.  A Special Account with an authorized allocation
of US$5.8 million, based on four months average expected expenditures, would
be established. Application for replenishment of the Special Account will be
submitted monthly or whenever the Account is drawn down by about 50 percent,
whichever occurs first. Reimbursement against overseas training, studies and
all contracts for goods costing less than US$200,000 equivalent, contracts for
technical assistance costing less than US$25,000 equivalent, would be made on
the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Documentation supporting the
SOEs would be retained and made available for review by IDA supervision
missions. All other disbursements would be made against fully documented
expenditures.
7.13      Effectiveness.  As a condition of effectiveness, Rroject
implementation agreements. with terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. would be signed between the Borrower and provinces participating
in the project. These agreements would, inter-alia, incorporate the
Tuberculosis Policy Package and the Schistosomiasis Policy Statement.
7.14      Retroactive Financing.  To ensure that disease control programs
could effectively begin in January 1992 without long delays for procurement of
key items, expenditures after September 30, 1991 for items eligible for
financing under the Credit, and procured in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement, would be retroactively financed. Total retroactive financing
would not exceed US$5 million.
7.15      Completion and Closing.  The proposed project would be implemented
over about a seven year period, plus six months for the completion of payments
and full withdrawal of credit proceeds. The project is thus expected to be
completed by December 31, 1998, with a closing date of June 30, 1999. A
project completion report would be submitted by the FLO to IDA within six
months of the closing date.
D. Accounts and Audits
7.16      Project accounts showing total expenditures for the schistosomiasis
and/or tuberculosis control programs in their jurisdiction would be maintained
by each province. A total project account would be maintained by the World
Bank Department of the MOF and would aggregate all provincial components and
the central component expenditures. The MOF would maintain an account showing
amounts expended under SOEs for each fiscal year and would maintain the
Special Account.  The provincial accounts would be audited by the provincial
audit bureaus annually.  The overAll project accounts (Total Project Account,
SOE account, and Special Account), would be audited annually.  At
negotiations. assurances were obtained that the Borrower will submit to the
Association within six months after the end of each Government fiscal year an
annual audit reRort preRared by an indeRendent auditor acceotable to the
Association.



- 4/ -
VIII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISK
A. Benefits
8.1       Tuberculosis. There will be of two types of benefits - disease
transmission benefits and illness/death avoided benefits. The former will
result from rapid reduction in the pool of previously treated smear-positive
cases, more rapid treatment and cure of new smear-positive cases, and, as a
consequence, a decrease in infection rate, resulting in permanently lowered
incidence rates. The project would sharply increase the cure rate in
participating provinces from less than 50 percent to over 90 percent of
initially-treated, smear-positive patients, and improve the cost detection
rate from about 35 percent to 70 percent. In epidemiological terms, the
benefits should be a reduction of tuberculosis prevalence by 50-60 percent
from current levels and a 6-8 percent rate of decline in the annual risk of
infection.
8.2       As a net result of the project, over 1 million people will be saved
from premature death due to tuberculosis and a similar number of new
infectious cases will be prevented. Patients, their families and communities
will directly benefit from avoidance of illness costs, disability and death
and preservation of productive capacity. In addition, there will be a long-
term benefit after the project from the avoidance annually for the next
several decades of about 100,000 premature deaths and a similar number of new
infectious cases. Economic costs of the project, based on investment period
benefits only, are estimated at less than US$2 net per discounted year of life
saved. This makes the tuberculosis control component one of the most cost-
effective health interventions China could make.
8.3        Schistosomiasis.  For schistosomiasis, the project would:  (a)
decrease the prevalence of infection in the population in endemic areas by 40
percent, reducing the number of patients from about 1.5 million in 1989 to
approximately 0.9 million in 1996; (b) decrease the prevalence of infection in
cattle and water buffalo by 40 percent, reducing the number of infected
arimals from 200,000 in 1989 to about 120,000 in 1996; and (c) decrease the
sr.ail infection rate and the density of infected snails in the high
transmission areas, thus reducing the transmission of infection. This would
reduce the incidence of acute and advanced cases, most of which occur among
working adults (aged 20 to 60 years), thereby producing direct economic
benefits, mainly in poor rural areas. Disease prevalence will be brought down
to levels where a maintenance strategy would be appropriate.
B. Risks
8.4       For tuberculosis the basic methods involved in the project have
been successful in other locations both inside and outside of China. If
implemented as designed, risks are small. Strong guidance from the national
level to ensure that province. -nderstand and strictly implement the project
according to the Policy Package w,'l minimize the risks. The main risk is that
provincial and lower level tuberculosis programs may persist with old
technical practices and patterns of emphasizing case finding, rather than



* 48 -
stressing successful completion of treatment, This mav happen: (a) if
financial policy changes introduced bv the project are not fully implemented
and past policies continue to adversely influence the tuberculosis program;
and (b) if new anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy, diagnosis and registration
protocols are not effectively adopted. Commitment by project provinces to
financial and technical policy changes has been required by the MOPH as a
condition of participation in the project and will help to guard against these
risks. In addition, careful supervision of the program in the provinces by
MOPH with frequent (quarterly) reporting by provinces to the MOPH and IDA of
actual program results will allow targeted assistance and supervision to
manage slippage in adoption of the Tuberculosis Policy Package. If the
control strategy of free short course chemotherapy is discontinued after the
project, there is the possibility that cure rates of tuberculosis patients
will drop again and the rate of decline of tuberculosis incidence will slow.
However, reductions in the annual risk of infection achieved by the project
will be permanent.
8.5       The major risks for the schistosomiasis component are that: (a)
while the technical strategy is appropriate and is based on the best available
epidemiological data, further reduction in areas of very low prevalence may be
difficult to achieve; (b) the proposed strategy of morbidity control through
chemotherapv, rather than the previous emphasis on transmission control
through mollusciciding and environmental modification, may require time to
fully implement as it requires changes in control measures and staff
practices, as well as increased cooperation of the population in endemic
areas; and (c) unforeseeable events such as floods or abnormal climatic
con-iitions could create peaks of acute infections and new areas of endemicity,
lo counter these risks, the project includes a substantial program of
operational research, with strong technical supervision by both domestic and
international expertise, to identify any further needed changes in technical
strateg,. Th.-. project also provides increased attention to program monitoring
and surveiilanze. To encourage greater participation of the population in
chemotherapy, improved, nationally-coordinated health education programs
targeted at specific r-isk groups such as farmers, fishermen, people living on
boats, and school chii±xren is provided. Rapid application of the revised
chemotherapy strategies to copulations and areas subjected to disease risk as
a result of floods and climatic changes will provide the best protection
against new infection outbreaks and new areas o' endemicity.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.1       At negotiations assurances were obtained that the Borrower will:
(a) ensure that each province participating in the tuberculosis
component of the project shall implement the Tuberculosis Policy
Package, in all its terms and conditions, and maintain its
provisions in effect for the full period of project implementation
(para 5.9);



- 49 -
(b) maintain the TPO with facilities, budgets, functions and staffing
acceptable to the Association throughout the period of project
implementation (para 5.17);
(c) maintain the TCC throughout the period of project implementation
with facilities, budgets, functions and staffing acceptable to the
Association (para 5.17);
(d) ensure that each province participating in the schistosomiasis
component of the project will implements its schistosomiasis
control program in accordance with the Schistosomiasis Policy
Statement (para 5.27);
(e) ensure that the provinces use only niclosamide as an acceptable
molluscicide for the schistosomiasis control program (para 5.30);
(f) establish and maintain during the project implementation period, in
cooperation with the Special Programme for Research and Training in
Tropical Diseases and with functions and staffing acceptable to the
Association, a Joint Research Management Committee to review and
approve, monitor, and advise on implementation of the findings of
operational research proposed for schistosomiasis control (para
5.39).
(g) in carrying out research activities for other key infectious
diseases, provide to the Association by October 31 of each year for
its review and comment, a detailed proposal of the research to be
carried out under the project during the coming calendar year (para
5.42);
(h) make the proceeds of the credit available to the MOPH and to the
provinces on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association,
and that the Borrower will ensure that the provinces make the
proceeds of the credit available to subsidiary levels of government
and to the health institutions on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association (para 6.6);
(i) maintain the FLO within MOPH throughout the project implementation
period with appropriate functions and staffing (para 7.1);
(j) submit to the Association within s.ix months after the end of the
Government's fiscal year an annual audit report prepared by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Association (para 7.16).
9.2       Conditions for Credit Effectiveness would be (a) approval by the
State Council of the Development Credit Agreement, and (b) signing of project
implementation agreements between the Borrower and the provinces with terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association (para 7.13).



9.3       With the above assurances, the Infectious and Endemic Disease
Control Project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 95.9 million
(US$129.6 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms, with 35 years maturity,
to the People's Republic of China.



Annex 1
Page 1 of 13
CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Tuberculosis
A. Tuberculosis - the Disease.
1.        Tuberculosis is an ancient disease that has long been a major
public health challenge in the world, and remains a major health problem in
developing countries. In the last century, tuberculosis was responsible for
nearly one in ten deaths in Europe. Since then, the decline of tuberculosis
in developed countries has been accelerated with the introduction of anti-
tuberculosis chemotherapy in the 1950s. In many developed countries, a steady
decrease in mortality from tuberculosis in the pre-chemotherapy era was
observed from the turn of this century. On the other hand, in developing
countries tuberculosis continues to be a major problem and there appears to
have been virtually no tendency for tuberculosis to eliminate itself, in the
absence of intensive control measures. Tuberculosis remains, therefore, one
of the top priorities for action in developing countries, since tools exist to
diagnose and cure infectious cases of tuberculosis and thus to decrease
transmission of tuberculous infection.
2.        The epidemiology of tuberculosis is complex and a certain knowledge
of the natural history of tuberculosis is required to discuss the policy
options for its control. Tuberculosis is caused by the bacillus Mycobacterium
tuberculosis which in most cases attacks the lungs. Tuberculosis is commonly
transmitted from a person with infectious pulmonary tuberculosis to other
persons, in particular through coughing or sneezing. If one or more bacilli
reach the lung tissue, they can cause a non-specific inflammatory response
which may result in a primary complex. The primary complex has two
components, one in the lung and the other in the corresponding lymph node(s).
In most cases, both the primary pulmonary lesions and lesions in ly.mIph nodes
heal spontaneously leaving behind a focus of a few 'dormant' bacilli that can
be reactivated and cause clinical disease at any moment during an individual's
lifetime. Before the development of allergy and immunity, some bacilli escape
from the primary lesions into the blood stream and set up blood-borne foci in
other parts of the body, e.g., in the kidneys, ends of long bones, spine or
brain. In newborns and small children, the infection progresses either in the
primary site or metastatic foci and serious forms of tuberculosis may develop,
in particular miliary tuberculosis and/or tuberculous meningitis. These forms
of tuberculosis also occur in adolescents and adults but much less frequently
than in newborns and small children.
3.        Two to six weeks after the primary infection, the body's immune
system develops a certain level of immunity to M.tuberculosis antigens.
Clinical disease, on the other hand, may occur weeks to years after the
primary infection with the bacillus, although about 80% of all cases occur
during the first 2 years after infection. The key aspect of the natural
history of tuberculosis is that infection may lead, in a relatively small
proportion (5%) of infected persons, to clinical disease at a much later date.
Consequently, the process of elimination of tuberculosis in a community is



- 52 -
Annex 1_
Page 2 of 13
very slow because of a .-ertain risk of latent infections developing into
active tuberculosis canr.ot be completely prevented.
4.        There are four major diagnostic strategies used to detect
tuberculous infAction and/or clinical disease:
(a)  A recently or remotely infected person, whether or not he/she has
clinical disease, de elops a certain degree of immune response to
M.tuberculosis antig4n.  An intradermal injection of tuberculin
(preferably purified protein derivative - PPD) will cause an
induration (swollen area of skin) in 48-72 hours. This skin test
(Mantoux test) permits a relatively easy detection of the
prevalence of tuberculous infection in any population. However,
the tuberculin test does not distinguish between recent and remote
infections, nor whether the infection was caused by M.tuberculosis
or by some other mycobacteria. In spite of these limitations,
tuberculin sensitivity surveys in a representative sample of a
population are one of the mainstays of tuberculosis epidemiology.
The tuberculin test, however, bas a limited value for the diagnosis
of clinical tuberculosis. If it positive, it does not distinguish
between infection and disease; if it is negative it does not always
exclude disease.
(b)  Detection by microscopy of acid-fact bacilli (nearly always
identical with tubercle bacilli) in sputum and other specimens
(e.g. gastric washings) is the most important tool to detect highly
infectious cases of tuberculosis. There is strong evidence that
those patients whose sputa contain sufficient bacilli to be
detected by microscopy are highly infectious. These cases are
referred to as smear-positive.
(c)  The culture of specimens for mycobacteria detects, in about 4 to 6
weeks, tubercle bacilli in sputum containing insufficient bacilli
to be detected by microscopy. These cases are then classified as
sputum smear-negative but culture-RosiLtive pulmonary tuberculosis.
Patients whose sputum is smear-negative and culture-positive or
culture-negative are many times less infectious than smear-positive
cases.
(d)  In smear-negative and culture-negative patients (particularly in
children and young adults) diagnosis of tuberculosis is made on the
basis of clinical examination and interpretation of pathology on
chest X-ray.
5.        Extra-pulmonary tuberculosis is diagnosed in a number of cases by
bacteriology (in patients with tuberculous meningitis, lymphadenitis, genito-
urinary tuberculosis, etc.) or by histology of biopsy material. Depending on
the site of infection, roentgenological and other special examinations are
required to diagnose extra-pulmonary tuberculosis. It is important to stress
that extra-pulmonary tuberculosis is either non-infectious or the degree of
infectivity Is very low.



- 53 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 13
6.        The natural history of tuberculosis shows that the main source of
infection are patients suffering from smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis.
For this report, therefore, tuberculosis will be divided into two categories:
i) sputum smear-positive tuberculosis which will be referred by the shorthand
smear-positive tuberculosis and ii) other tuberculosis which includes those
cases of pulmonary tuberculosis that are sputum smear negative and extra-
pulmonary tuberculosis. As children ralely suffer from sputum smear-positive
tuberculosis, most cases of tuberculosis in children will be included in the
category other tuberculosis. The distinction between sputum smear-positive
tuberculosis and other tuberculosis is particularly important wheni considering
the policy options for tuberculosis control and prevention.
Tuberculosis Incidence and Mortality
7.        Incidence of smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis cases is one of
the two key epidemiological indices (the other being the average annual risk
of tuberculous infection) for evaluation of the overall tuberculosis
situation. Lack of data on smear-positive tuberculosis cases in developing
countries makes it difficult to convey the enormity of the tuberculosis
problem to the public health community. It is not possible to readily obtain
reliable information on incidence of smear-positive tuberculosis in developing
countries because case-detection rates can be only a fraction of the
respective true incidence rates.
8.        Prevalence of smear-positive cases is of limited value as an
epidemiological index because it largely depends on the quality of
chemotherapy of smear-positive cases and the extent and quality of case-
finding. (In developed countries, prevalence may be substantially lower than
incidence specially if a 6-month short-course regimen is applied. In
developing countries, prevalence may be several times higher than incidence if
treatment results are poor and/or the case-detection rate is low.)
9.        The relationship between the annual risk of infection and the
incidence of smear-positive tuberculosis can provide one of the only means of
estimating the incidence of smear-positive tuberculosis. In developing
countries, the relationship between the annual risk of infection and incidence
of pulmonary smear-positive tuberculosis is estimated at 50 cases of smear-
positive tuberculosis per 100,000 for every 1% annual risk of infection.  The
95% confidence interval for the coefficient is 39 to 59.
Tuberculosis Mortality
10.       Without appropriate chemotherapy, tuberculosis is highly fatal--
without treatment from 50% to 60% of tuberculosis cases will die within five
years. The case-fatality rate for smear-positive cases is higher. With good
chemotherapy more than 95% of tuberculosis cases can be cured.
11.       Prevention Activities.  The most important preventive measure for
tuberculosis is the early detection and effective treatment of smear-positive
cases. The rationale for tuberculosis control in developing countries is
based on the following:



- 54 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 13
(a) Unlike many other infectious diseases seen in developing countries,
tuberculosis can be controlled with existing tools because the
infectious agent is almost exclusively in the diseased person, who
can be quickly rendered non-infectious.
(b) Case-finding of infectious, particularly smear-positive, cases of
pulmonary tuberculosis and their cure is the key to effective
prevention and control of the disease. In addition, treatment
reduces suffering and if adequately applied, very much lowers the
death rate of tuberculosis.
(c)  Since a balance exists in developing countries between the tubercle
bacillus and man in the absence of man-made interference (i.e.,
case-finding and chemotherapy), any reduction in the sources of
infection will inevitably improve the epidemiological situation.
If nearly all smear-positive cases of pulmonary tuberculosis
diagnosed at present in any developing country could be rendered
non-infectious, the risk of tuberculous infection would immediately
start to fall. If the decrease in the annual risk of tuberculous
infection is 4 percent or more, this will not only result in a
decrease in the incidence rate of the disease but will also
outweigh increases in the population and consequently the absolute
number of smear-positive cases will fall as well. A five percent
decrease in the risk of infection each year will ensure that the
tuberculosis problem in a given community or country will halve
itself about every 14 years.
B. The Tuberculosis Situation and Program in China.
E,idemiological Situatio .
12.       Three nationwide, random epidemiological surveys have been carried
out in 1979, 1984/5 and 1990. While these surveys contained some technical
flaws, both in design and in data analysis they provide a good overview of the
fundamental epidemiological situation and its trends.
13.       The national prevalence of pulmonary tuberculosis, smear-positive
tuberculosis and bacteriological positive tuberculosis were 550/100,000,
156/100,000 and 205/100,000 respectively in 1984/5. The annual infection rate
of children under 14 years was reported 0.6% but must be at least double that
level. The estimated number of persons with active pulmonary tuberculosis and
smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis (prevalence) were 5,700,000 and
1,620,000 respectively. The overall tuberculosis mortality and the mortality
of pulmonary tuberculosis were 35/100,000 and 31/100,000 respectively. The
number of deaths from tubercu'losis (all forms) was about 360,000 annually, of
which pulmonary tuberculosis accounted for 320,000, for the past decade.



- 55 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 13
14.       The prevalencel' and mortality rates for tuberculosis gradually
increase with age and level out above 60 years of age. There is wide
-variation of both prevalence and mortality by locality, with rural areas
having much higher indices than urban (see Table 1 below).
Table 1
Epidemiological index                Rural areas      Urban areas
Prevalence (1/100,000)                     561            257
Smear-positive prevalence(l/l00,000)       156             92
Mortality (1/100,000)                       37              8
Source: 1984/5 National Prevalence Survey.
Trends. The nationwide surveys showed tuberculosis prevalence in the rural
areas to be declining only slowly (see Table 2). The smear-positive
prevalence in some provinces (i.e. Henan, Hunan, Ningxia, Shaanxi and
Xinjiang) increased at rates of 0.5% to 5.7%. annually.
Table 2
Epidemiological index           1979    1984/5   Annual reduction
rate (%)
Prevalence (1/100,000)           717       550          4.7
smear + prevalence(l/100,000)   187        156           3.2
The National Tuberculosis Control Program in the 1980s.
15.       Case-finding and Diagnosis.  The majority of tuberculosis is
initially detected among patients who present to general health services with
symptoms compatible with tuberculosisl'. This is generally called "passive
case-finding". Current policy, in theory, is for general health institutions
to refer patients with symptoms compatible to tuberculosis to a tuberculosis
1'   Total prevalence, bacteriological prevalence and smear-positive
prevalence.
2t   A persistent, productive cough, chest pain, coughing up blood, weight
loss, fatigue, fever, night sweats. These symptoms are suggestive of
tuberculosis but are non-specific and may be attributable to other
diseases.



- 56 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 13
dispensary for confirmation of diagnosis and treatment. Initial screening of
suspects at township and county level is usually by fluoroscopy.
Occasionally, before referral is made, a treatment trial (usuall.y antibiotics)
is carried out to see whether symptoms are related to another respiratory
disease. Screening of suspects of tuberculosis is done at the city or county
tuberculosis dispensary through a combination of sputum examination and
fluoroscopy for all patients referred. An x-ray film is taken if a suspicious
lesion is seen on fluoroscopy. About 60% of patients diagnosed are found to
be sputum negative, which is suggestive of the poor quality of present
bacteriological services.
16.       Traditional, "active case-finding" by means of miniature mass
radiography (MMR) is still used in some provinces (mainly in large cities) and
also for the purpose of screening out the patients of lung cancer. Both
practices are wasteful and not cost-effective. In areas where there has been
a well-organized treatment program with all newly detected and known patients
already properly treated, a modified version of active case-finding is
sometimes conducted in order to find more new cases for treatment. A
questionnaire or survey is used to find persons within the population who have
symptoms compatible with tuberculosis. Fluoroscopy and sputum examinations
are performed for this group. In other places local authorities have
recommended mass screening among individuals over age 50 by fluoroscopy, and
by tuberculin testing of primary school children and selective screening of
tuberculosis symptomatic at other ages. While well-intended, these procedures
are not cost-effective at China's stage of tuberculosis control and to the
extent they absorb program funds needed for patient treatment, the efforts are
actually counter productive.
17.       ChemotheraDv and case-management.  Into the early 1980s a standard
chemotherapy regimen of 3SHP/9HPIV continued to be used. It has been
gradually replaced in national program recommendations with short-course
regimens as follows for new smear-positive cases (and seriously ill patients
with smear-negative or extra-pulmonary tuberculosis).
a: 2HRZ/4HR or 2HRZ/4H2R2 or 2HRZ/4H3R3
b: 2S(E)HRZ with same continuation phase as in a:
For extra-pulmonary tuberculosis, the continuation phase is prolonged by three
or more months. There has been no standardized regimen for re-treated
patients. These recommendations have remained only recommendations and not
been uniformly adopted in different provinces and even within provinces there
are widely varying practices.
I/ Standard drug abbreviations are used in this report. The digit refers
to the number of months the drug(s) should be taken. H refers to
Isoniazid; S is streptomycin; P os paraminosalylaciol; R is rifampicin;
Z is pyrazinamide. A digit after the drug indicates the frequency of
dosage per week.



- 57 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 13
18.       Chemotherapy for ambulatory patients can be either supervised (each
intake of drugs taken under supervision) or self-administered. Supervised
chemotherapy can either be fully-supervised (for the whole treatnment course
including both the initial intensive phase and the continuation phase) or
partially supervised (only initial intensive phase under supervision).
Current national policy encourages supervision for all infectious
(smear-positive) cases, at least for the first two months. Actual practice
varies, depending on provincial policies, the enthusiasm of the local staff,
and the availability of funds for travel expenses and for incentive payments
to village doctors to supervise patients.
19.       Present policy affirms that the patient is entered into the
registry at the county tuberculosis dispensary at the time of diagnosis. For
supervised chemotherapy, the patient is to report to the dispensary (or a
local village, township, or county clinic) for treatment in accordance with
the regimen. For self-administered treatment, the patient receives a supply
of drugs biweekly or monthly. Subsequent visits to the county dispensary (or
sometimes a township central health clinic) are then requested of the patient
for repeat sputum examinations, x-ray examinations and drug resupply.
Tuberculosis dispensary sLaff are supposed to make superviscry visits to the
township and village levels and may visit patients at home directly. This is
especially encouraged at the start of treatment and if patients fail to come
on time for treatment or drug resupply.
20.       Recording. Reporting and Evaluation.  All newly detected cases of
pulmonary tuberculosis are to be reported to the local tuberculosis dispensary
(county, urban district or other). Reporting is obligatory for all health
institutions including public, enterprise and private clinics and hospitals.
Reporting is not yet obligatory for cases of extra-pulmonary tuberculosis.
Data are entered on a patient registration card kept at the county level.
Each patient also has an individual treatment card to record the doses of
drugs taken and frequency of visits and results of examinations. In practice,
forms used vary widely both within and among provinces and staff training in
their use is not consistent.
21.       A standard form is supposed to be used to make annual reports of
patients registered, treated and results of treatment to the prefectural and
provincial levels. These are compiled at each level and aggregated data is
sent to the national tuberculosis program. Variation within and among
provinces in type and completeness of this form is also common.
22.       In the present system there is no formal evaluation of the methods
used in case detection, treatment and case-management. The main focus is on



- 58 -
Annex 1
Page 8 cf 13
overall targets for case-finding41 which are set by the provincial and
prefectural levels. Evaluation of treatment results focuses on: (i)
proportion of treated cases among newly cietected cases; (ii) proportion of
cases who has completed the treatment among the treated cases; and, (iii)
proportion of cured cases (sputum positive cases which concert to sputum
negative).
23.       The standardized registry of tuberculosis patients was established
in principle in 21 provinces in 1982 and extended to 28 pro'r.nces in 1983.
All provinces are now supposed to follow the system, though this occurs with
wide variation. The present situation is far from sat'sfactory with
registered cases constituting only 6% - 8% of the estimated cases and
registered smear-positive cases only accounting for less than 5% of estimated
smear-positive cases.
C. Organizations and Institutions.
24.       Organization and Functions.  The Department of Epidemic Prevention
of the MOPH has overall responsibility for tuberculosis control51. The role
of the few staff directly involved in the department has been limited to
administrative coordination and control. Limited implementation
responsibility for the NTP has in the last decade resided in the National
Tuberculosis Control and Research Center (NTCRC) and the Tuberculosis
Institutel1, both being parts of the Beijing Municipal Tuberculosis Research
Center and Hospital since the Cultural Revolution. Administrative barriers,
4/ Note: for most provinces of China this is an inappropriate target to
focus the program. This is a main weakness in the national program
emphasis as it has existed for the last decade. Even where cure rates
are high enough to justify some attention to raising case-finding rates,
use of case-finding by itself as a target would be inappropriate. It
should always be accompanied by other programmatic targets, including
cure-rate.
5i   Under the leadership of the Department, public health and disease
prevention activities have mainly been carried out by Anti-Epidemic
Stations (AES) and other specialized prevention units, such as Anti-
Schistosomiasis Stations (AST) and tuberculosis dispensaries at the
provincial, city and county levels. The AES are responsible for
surveillance and reporting of diseases, control of communicable
diseases, monitoring of environmental health and food hygiene and health
education. Their current preventive activities include childhood
immunizations, and organization of endemic disease control programs.
preventive work below the county level is usually the responsibility of
units within the township health center, together with the rural doctors
of the village health system.
6/   These institutions, their roles and other key organizational aspects are
discussed in Annex 1, Part B, starting at para 25.



- 59 -
Annex 1
Page 9 of 13
budget and staff limitations have severely constrained fulfillment of their
assigned roles.
25.       Responsibility for tuberculosis control at the provincial level and
below is shared between the health bureau (division of hygiene and epidemiz
prevention) and the tuberculosis dispensary (or tuberculosis unit within the
anti-epidemic station) at each level of government (province, prefecture,
county). The health bureau's role is limited to assistance in obtaining
budget allocations and personnel matters, and it has administrative authority
over lower level health bureaus and over the tuberculosis dispensary at its
level. The provincial tuberculosis dispensary2i has responsibilities for
overall technical approach, enforcement of standards, training, epidemiology,
monitoring and should serve as a reference laboratory for lower levels. It
may also serve nearby populations as a primary level dispensary. Similar
functions characterize the prefecture level dispensary. Budget shortfall,
lack of higher level support and clear standards for tuberculosis control have
limited the dispensary system's effectiveness.
26.       The county level (called "district" in urban areas) plays the main
role in the tuberculosis control. It is the lowest level which has full time
tuberculosis workers and institutions. The county tuberculosis dispensary is
supposed to be responsible for case-finding, diagnosis, treatment, case-
management, reporting and recording for all tuberculosis patients within its
catchment area. It is also supposed to train and supervise the primary level
health care personnel.81 Actual performance and quality of service is highly
variable.
27.       The administrative leadership of the National Tuberculosis
Program (NTP) is under the Department of Epidemic Prevention of the MOPH. The
technical leadership of NTP is under the National Tuberculosis Control and
Research Center (NTCRC), Beijing and its sub-center in Shanghai. Their
principal responsibilities have been as follows:
(a) to assist MOPH in designing and planning the NTP, establishing the
technical guidelines and norms for tuberculosis control services
and implementing the control program;
(b) to supervise, monitor, assess and evaluate the implementation of
the NTP;
2'   Each province, and many prefectures and in_reasingly, counties, have
specialized tuberculosis hospitals. While not directly addressed as
part of the proposed project, th6se are discussed in further detail in
Annex 1, Part B, para. ?, 34.
A/   Primary health personnel are the general physicians, health workers and
nurses from township health centers plus the village doctors. They
usually have the main contact with the tuberculosis patients who, in
rural areas, often live too far from t&se dispensary to come for
supervised chemotherapy.



- 60 -
Annex I
Page 10 of 13
1c)  to conduct the training program for health personnel engaged in
tuberculosis control services; and
(d) to organize, coordinate, facilitate and parcicipate in
international technical exchange activities.
28.       Both the center and sub-center are on the respective grounds of the
municipal tuberculosis control institutes (Beijing Tuberculosis Research
Institute and Shanghai First Tuberculosis Hospital) and are partly subject to
administrative control from the municipalities.  The centers receive only
limited budgetary funding for their activities from the MOPHI.
29.       Responsibility for most disease prevention and corntrol activities
at the provincial, prefectural and county levels belongs to Anti-Epidemic
Stations (AES) at each level. In all provinces, the provincial tuberculosis
control program is separated from the AES. Some prefectural and county
tuberculosis control programs, however, remain as units within the AES.
30.       Provincial Level.  Provincial tuberculosis programs (PTP) are under
the leadership of the Division of Epidemic Prevention, in each provincial
Bureau of Public Health. The provincial tuberculosis institute (dispensary) is
responsible for technical supervision and implementation of the PTP. The
provincial Health bureau has administrative authority over lower (prefecture
and county) health bureaus and over the provincial dispensary.
31.       The provincial dispensary's responsibilities correspond to those of
the NTCRC. At present provincial dispensaries also receive patients referred
from lower levels with complicated or difficult conditions and they may
directly serve part of the population that is administratively under a county
or district level dispensary but is physically located close to the
dispensary. The provincial dispensaries usually have a simple reference
laboratory for culture and drug sensitivity testing of mycobacteria samples
and these are intended to serve lower levels dispensaries. These laboratories
are not currently equipped or staffed to function effectively as provincial
reference labs though some which are closely associated with provincial AES
laboratories are better prepared to provide support. For most however, good
quality microscopes, a fluorescence microscope, biological safety cabinets,
incubators and improved staff training and supervision would be needed to
enable them to properly support and supervise an improved PTP.
32.       The functional responsibilities for prefectural dispensaries are
generally similar but it is premature for prefectures to provide quality
reference laboratory services. The main program role for prefecture
dispensaries should be quality guidance and supervision to ensure the quality
of the tuberculosis program at the country level and below.
33.       County Level.  County level (district in urban areas) institutions
have a key role in the implementation of tuberculosis control programs. It is
the lowest level at which full time tuberculosis workers and specialized
tuberculosis institutions are found. Starting from small numbers in the early
1980s about 80% of all counties in China have now established tuberculosis



- 61 -
Anncx 1
Page 11 of 13
dispensaries or specialized units within the AES. Some counties without a
formal dispensary may operate control activities out of the general hospital.
34.       The county dispensary is responsible for implementing all
tuberculosis control services and tasks including case-finding, diagnosis,
treatment, case-management, recording, reporting and evaluation for all
tuberculosis patients within its catchment area. It usually has rooms for
outpatients, radiology, laboratory, administrative offices and case
registration. The county dispensary also trains and supervises personnel from
township health centers and village doctors engaged in tuberculosis control.
35.       In most counties, patients live too far from the dispensary to come
for routine supervised chemotherapy. Therefore, supervision of chemotherapy
must be delegated to the existing system of township health centers and
primary health care clinics at village level. These institutions, along with
the county general hospitals are also important in passive case-finding and
initial diagnosis. Diagnostic confirmation and follow-up functions are
generally supposed to be done at the county dispensary. The township health
centers usually serve a population of 10,000 to 30,000 and the village clinics
usually serve several thousands persons, It would thus be unusual for a
village doctor to encounter more than a handful of tuberculosis cases in his
service population in a single year. His training and supervision by the
county dispensary and the maintenance of an accurate registry covering all
patients is therefore extremely important to program quality and achievement.
36.       Tuberculosis HosDitals.  All provinces except Xinjiang, Qinghai and
Ningxia have one or more specialized tuberculosis hospitals. These three
provinces have simple in-patient beds in the provincial dispensaries. Several
provincial tuberculosis dispensaries are on the grounds of the provincial
tuberculosis hospital. In some cases, a single person is assigned as the
director of both institutions. The same situation is found in some
prefectures. There are also a few tuberculosis hospitals operated by state
enterprises. A few general hospitals which have a department of communicable
disease control may have a number of beds reserved for tuberculosis patients.
There are still misunderstandings in medical practices in China which create
conceptions that tuberculosis patients should not be treated in general
hospitals. Many localities still are maintaining or building separate
tuberculosis hospitals, often in remote settings. National policy remains
that if patients are admitted on an emergency basis to general hospitals they
should be transferred to specialized tuberculosis facilities as soon as
feasible. There is no sound basis for this practice within modern medical
practice. National policy is to restrict hospitalization to patients who
cannot be treated effectively at home. In practice, however, actual policies
of provinces and individual hospitals vary widely. Tuberculosis hospitals are
almost always full, average length of stay is very long and medical
justification for both regimens and length of treatment and examinations given
is questionable.



- 62 -
Annex 1
Page 12 of 13
D. Tuberculosis Control in the Proiect Provinces.
37.       The project will cover the following provinces and population:
Province      Population       Prefecture           County(district)
(millions)   No.   TB Dispensaries    No.   TB Dispensaries
Hunan          60.7          14          0              125        107
Sichuan       107.2          21         19              217        217
Ningxia         4.6           4          4               24         20
Hubei          54.0          16         16               95         95
Liaoning       39.5          14         14              100         82
Guangdong      62.8          19         19               76         76
Heilongjiang  35.2           14         13               84         84
Xinjiang       15.2          13         13               93         93
Gansu          22.4          14         12               86         86
Shandong       84.4          16         15              133        132
Hebei          61.1          18         18              172        164
Hainan          6.5           2          0               17         17
Total         553.5         386        143             1222        1173
38.       Personnel and their composition in project provinces are as
follows:
Province          Provincial level         Prefectural/County level
Total Sen. Mid. Jun.Other  Total Sen. Mid. Jun. Other
Hunan          106  11  31   26   38    1162   14   320   761   67
Sichuan         58   4  17   24   13    1126   41   286   645  154
Ningxia         56   1  11   32   12        83    2    17    62    2
Hubei           16   1   6    9    -    1224   35   246   757  186
Liaoning        32   3   8   11   10    1969   47   449   916  557
Guangdong       46   7  15   12   12    1089   16   186   677  210
Heilongjiang   41   3  13   16    9    1477   22   333   738  384
Xinjiang        58   2  10   33   13       520    6    81   411   22
Gansu           17   2   4    3    8       265    4    75   119   67
Shandong        35   8   9    8   10    1561   34   405   955  167
Hebei           30   1  15   14    0       721    2   128   501   72
Hainan                                     167
Total          495  43 139  188  125   11364  241  2526  6542 1888



- 63 -
Annex 1
Page 13 of 13
39.       Equipment available for tuberculosis control in the project areas
is summarized below:
Province           Prefectural level              Countv level
Veh. Cult. Binoc. X-ray Frige Binoc.X-ray mach.Fiige
equip.micros.mach.         micros. (>5OmA)
Hunan          -    1      10      3     4      2      14       34
Sichuan        -    2       6     4    12    12        23       68
Ningxia        -    -       2      2     -    12       12        -
Hubei          -   23      16    16    16    56        58      115
Liaoning       7    8      13    13    14      8       32       56
Guangdong      -   13       6    16    18       -      10       69
Heilongjiang  2    1        1     4    23    10        14       94
Xinjiang       9    9       9      9     9      -       -        -
Gansu          -   14      14      -    14    86        -        7
Shandong       -   15      14    15    15    30        62       65
Hebei          3    3      12     2      9    15       12        6
Hainan         1    1       2      2     2    17       12       17
Total         22   90    105    86   136   248        249      531
40.        Current epidemiology in the project provinces can be summarized as
follows:
Province        Prevalence(1/100000) Sm+ prev(1/100000)
1979  1984/5  1990*   1979 1984/5 1990*
Hunan             832    837       764    219   232   168
Sichuan           836    620      885    207   170   217
Ningxia           885    755       536    121   138   168
Hubei             714    539       549    261   171   175
Liaoning          637    316      420    193    92    89
Guangdong         868    674      493    262   231   112
Heilongjiang   1 017    834        593    183   179   121
Xinjiang        1 559  1 187       667    172   223   194
Gansu             517    332      246    112    54    75
Shandong          492    311      198    134    91    60
Hebei             453    288       596    117    83   131
Hainan                            826                  261



- 64 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 18
CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
The Tuberculosis Dispensary System
Costs and Financing
1.        This annex describes the financial system within which the
tuberculosis (TB) system today operates. It examines the main weaknesses of
the system and recommends administrative and financial changes which
provincial governments need to implement under the project to ensure
successful and equitable operation of an improved tuberculosis program. This
draft of the annex is based primarily on an in-depth study of the financing
system as it exists in Heilongjiang Province. However, the main issues ey'st
to differing degrees in other provinces, and policy recommendations are
generally applicable to all provinces.
2.        Tuberculosis Program Financing.  Tuberculosis services used to be
fully financed by public health budgets (national, provincial, prefectural,
and county) with subsidies to each lower administrative level. In the 1980s
most budgetary responsibility for health was shifted to local governments.
National tuberculosis funding now available is mainly provided as incentives
for participation in basic and applied research projects. Local government
budgets are supposed to cover the fixed costs of the dispensaries - basic
staff salaries, maintenance, fuel, electricity, travel, etc., and capital
purchases. In reality, budgets seldom cover fixed costs, particularly in the
poor counties which generally have higher disease rates.
3.        Since initiation of financial reforms in the 1980s, all health
units are supposed to recover some or all of the cost of services provided
through fees charged for services.921 Tuberculosis patients are charged for
variable operating costs - diagnosis, anti-tuberculosis drugs and follow-up
lab tests.'! Dispensaries (and hospitals) are aiso allowed to retain a 15%
markup on all medicines sold. These earnings above variable operating cost
are used to cover the fixed cost deficits and to provide for staff
compensation above basic salary levels.)L1 The volume of drugs prescribed
and number of diagnostic and laboratory tests done can substantially affect
the financial status of the dispensary.
2/   The health sector report (7965-CHA), provides an extensive discussion of
the changed financial policies and their implications for the health
sector in Chapter 9 and Annex 9 to that report.
01  Prices of these services are normally set by government at levels which
yield a small but significant net profit to the dispensary.
II/ This provides the main source of financing for bonuses, subsidies,
housing, staff welfare and retirement in many health institutions.



- 65 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 1T
4.        Patients may be fully or partially reimbursed for their treatment
expenses if they are covered under government (civil service) insurance or
labor (state-owned enterprise) insurance (both mainly existent in urban
areas); or collective insurance schemes (in a few rural areas). The collapse
of the rural collective insurance system in the early 1980si21 left most
rural inhabitants without coverage. Most Chinese (about 80 percent) are now
uninsured and must pay for diagnosis, medical treatment and preventive
services out-of-pocket. For tuberculosis the costs involved are beyond the
financial capacity of many families (even the relatively well-off)l',. A
few provinces have started programs to provide subsidies for tuberculosis
treatment for poor individuals but these have not, in general, worked well and
the funds allocated can only cover a minority of uninsured individuals.
5.        Village doctors are almost solely deperdent for their income on
fees for services and mark-ups of drugs sold. Small amounts are paid by some
village or county governments for general disease prevention work but the
willingness of village doctors to spend time on the initial, intensive phase
of tuberculosis treatment is a doubtful proposition under existing
circumstances. Effective treatment programs will require a source of
compensation for the village doctors for the work which they must do.
6.        In principle, at the time of diagnosis at the dispensary, the
patient's record should be entered into the tuberculosis registry and the
patient given the first one month of medication. Neither registration nor
chemotherapy commences easily now, in large part because of financial
barriers. Subsequent visits to the county dispensary should be made for
repeat sputum examinations, an interview about drug side-effects and
collection of new drug supplies. Good practice dictates that sputum
examination, should be done at least three times during the course of
treatment. These and other tests are often performed monthly as China's
tuberculosis program now operates, thus posing a considerable economic waste
and creating additional financial barriers to completion of treatment.
7.        Tuberculosis dispensary staff need to supervise primary health
workers at the township and village levels to ensure they are supervising
chemotherapy. Supervisors should also randomly visit patients at home. This
is especially needed at the start of treatment, and if patients fail to report
for follow-up examinations. This occurs only haphazardly at present.
8.        Resources for tuberculosis control services comes from:  i)
governmental funds (national, provincial, prefectural and county); and, ii)
also from patients (via insurance payments and out-of-pocket payments).
Economic reforms in China in the 1980s caused much of government finance
L;l The economic and financial reforms effectively abolished the commune
system and the funding contributions which it provided for social
services.
13   Registered patients often account for less than 10 percent of estimated
cases.



- 66 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 18
responsibility to be shifted to the provinces and lower levels. Therefore,
relatively little funding to operate provincial tuberculosis programs comes
from the national level, and this is often in the form of subsidy payments
for participation in nationally sponsored basic and operational research
projects. Budgetary funds mainly pay for the basic salaries of tuberculosis
dispensary staff, for capital purchases, and for dispensary operating expenses
(fuel, electricity, travel allowances, etc.). Variations in the financial
status of counties induces variations of staff support, equipment and
facilities provided to the county dispensary.
9.        Patients have to pay for anti-tuberculosis drugs and for diagnostic
and follow-up laboratory examinations. Dispensaries are allowed to charge set
fees for laboratory tests and a 15% markup on drugs over the original
wholesale price. This income to dispensaries is used to provide for staff
support costs above the basic salaries (including bonuses, subsidies, and
staff welfare) and may be used for other purposes. In this context,
variations in drugs prescribed and various examinations done may influence the
financial status of the dispensary.
10.       Patients may be fully or partially reimbursed for their payments if
they are covered under government insurance or labor insurance (mainly in
urban areas) or collective medical insurance schemes (mainly in rural areas).
Patients who are not covered by medical insurance must pay for all treatment
and diagnostic costs themselves. Since these costs are usually beyond the
financial capacity of many families, several provinces (e.g. Xinjiang,
Heilongjiang, Beijing, etc.) have started small programs to provide subsidies
to poor individuals. However, these programs have not yet started to function
effectively and the amount of subsidies available are too small to deal with
current disease needs.
11.       In most rural areas, village doctors have to earn most of their
income from service charges and fixed mark-ups on drugs dispensed. Small
amounts may be also paid to the doctor by the village committee for general
preventive work which they conduct. Since anti-tuberculosis drugs are made
available only from the dispensary (which profits from their sale), it is
unlikely that most village doctors will allot time and effort for supervision
of chemotherapy for tuberculosis unless provision is made to compensate them
for successful preventive work by achieving cure of the smear-positive
patient.
I. FINANCING ISSUES IN TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL
12.       Financial Framework.  Provinces now spend Y1-1.5 per capita per
year on tuberculosis control and treatment. About 75% of the total
expenditure on tuberculosis control is for treatment of patients in hospitals.
About 25% is for the TB dispensaries which diagnose and treat patients on an
ambulatory basis.141 The provincial and county governments provide, from
tneir recurrent budgets, only 28% of the total funding for the entire
1/   See Table 1 for data on Heilongjiang Province.



- 67 -                      Annex 2
Page 4 of 18
tuberculosis control program (including hospital and dispensary system) (Table
2).  The rest of it comes from insurance and industry payments, 44% L5/ , and
patient payment, 28%.
13.       More than three quarters of the hospital income are from patient
payment and insurance; the rest 25% is from the provincial governmentil.
Of the TB dispensary incomes, 40% comes from the government recurrent budget,
15% from the provincial and county subsidies to the patients and the rest from
patients payment. The government funding is mostly from the prefectural and
county level governments (34% of the 40%).
14.       By definition, prevention activities (early detection and effective
treatment to reduce the number of infectious sources) tend tu be almost
exclusively those done through dispensaries.   However, only a portion of
activities conducted today in dispensaries can be classified as genuinely
preventive because of the financial deficits which confront the dispensaries.
15.       Incremental unit costs for diagnosis and treatment of TB are
presented in Tables 3 and 4. For treatment, drug costs make up the major
share of the variable unit costs.
16.       Hospital Funding and Wastage.  As did other countries China
invested in specialized tuberculosis hospitals before modern anti-biotic
therapy was available. There are specialized TB hospitals in all provinces.
Some are maintained by provincial and prefectural governments and others by
major industries.  The government provides recurrent and capital development
subsidies to the hospitals based on the number of beds in the hospital.'1
15   The proportion is largely a function of the number of insured persons in
each province. In Heilongjiang, about 45% of the population (double the
national average) is covered by some form of insurance. The
tuberculosis program there (hospital plus dispensaries) receives almost
half of its total funding from insured patients. This proportion would
drop if all persons requiring treatment for tuberculosis would receive
full and effective therapy because total spending on tuberculosis would
increase at the same time as the treatment costs per patient is sharply
reduced from today's level which includes a substantial incentive toward
excess treatment for insured patients. The insurance programs include:
government insurance for civil servants and dependents (partial), labor
insurance for employees of state enterprises and their dependents, and
cooperative insurance systems.
>/ 1National program subsidies, provincial and municipal or county
subsidies. These expenditures are mainly for staff salaries and
operating costs but include some small subsidies for medicines for poor
patients (see below in text).
17t The Heilongjiang provincial government spends an estimated Y 6 million
on hospital treatment of tuberculosis, more than the normal recurrent
budget allocation to the entire tuberculosis dispensary system.



- 68 -                       Annex 2
Page 5 of 18
In some locales tuberculosis patients are also treated in the general
hospitals which do not have specialized wards or beds. In fact, modern
practice no longer requires isolation of tuberculosis patients in specialized
hospitals. Only a small fraction of tuberculosis patients should require
hospitalization!.81. Specialized hospitals and long periods of hospital
treatment for many patients are today consuming a large proportion of
resources available to control TB. More than three quarters of the total
income for the hospital is from patient payments financed out of pocket or
from insurance. A major part of this payment is for drugs (about 60%) and
there are no effective controls today on either the composition of the drug
regimen or its duration. One quarter of the total expenditure is for hospital
personnel costs. Per patient recurrent costs are very high.9/ The
hospital treatment of TB is often wasteful. Moreover, many patients in
hospital are misdiagnosed or over-diagnosed (i.e., they do not have active
TB). An estimated 35% of the extra-pulmonary tuberculosis cases in hospital
are due to over-diagnosis.20/ Overall, up to two-thirds of present patterns
of hospital expenditura on tuberculosis may be unnecessary.
17.       Ineauitv of the Present Financial System.  The existing financial
arrangements for the tuberculosis dispensaries which depend primarily on
patient payment cause exclusion of large numbers of patients from treatment
and contribute to dispensary staff providing ineffective and expensive
service. Those who are not insured find it very difficult to impossible to
enter and complete treatment. Even those with partial insurance may face
financial barriers to achieving cure.Z2/
18.       Provincial government provides only 6% of total income of the
dispensary system (Table 5), and these funds are directed to specific
activities such as BCG immunization and epidemiological surveys. Because
local government provides most of the recurrent budget funding, there is large
>/   On average, experience in a number of countries, developed and
developing, shows that only about 15% of pulmonary tuberculosis patients
require hospitalization. In Heilongjiang Province, 44% patients are
treated in hospitals, compared to a more normal average of 15%. The
waste is estimated to be approximately Y 14 million per year.
19/ About Y 1,350 at the Heilongjiang provincial tuberculosis hospital.
20/  The wasted expenditure on misdiagnosed patients in Heilongjiang is
estimated to be more than Y 8 million and Y 22 million in total is spent
on those cases.
AL/  In Heilongjiang province, only 8 million people out of 34.4 million
population have complete medical insurance. This is the population
primarily served by excessive reliance on hospital care. Another 7
million people have partial insurance. More than half of the
population, of which a majority live in the rural and poor areas, has no
insurance coverage at all. In other provinces of China the proportion
of insured population can be considerably smaller.



- 69 -                       Annex 2
Page 6 of 18
variation between rich and poor counties. Unfortunately, counties that are
poor and have more difficulty funding the tuberculosis dispensaries also tend
to have a more serious tuberculosis disease problem. Decentralized budgetary
funding of the tuberculosis program acts to increase the overall inequity of
the system. The patient subsidies from provincial levels are often not
allocated preferentially to those counties with the poorest patients. Urban
dispensaries tend to receive a higher proportion of the subsidy. In some
provinces, the provincial government makes special contributions to dispensary
income in the form of subsidies for the treatment of poor patients. This sum
from the province is sometimes matched by the lower level governments. These
subsidies are not consistently used in accordance with their programmatic
intent as the county dispensaries are still free to charge for services. Drug
subsidies can be converted into additional cash income to the dispensary.
Programs directed to the poor and based on a "means test" of some kind would
involve prohibitively high supervision costs and probably would be impossible
for logistical reasons and lack of effective enforcement mechanisms.
19.       Ineffective Operation and Inappropriate Financial Incentives.
Financial barriers for patients have led to low overall program effectiveness.
This problem is magnified by the common practice of dispensaries using
unnecessarily expensive drugs and repeated lab tests. Some of such practice
can be attributed to outmoded treatment protocols and established habits of
physicians, but financial incentives to increase dispensary income also play a
significant role. The financial incentives also work against achieving high
rates of case-detection. For those who cannot pay for diagnostic work the
dispensaries incur relatively high costs of case finding and receive only a
low subsidy from government. At present, only 55% of estimated cases are
detected in dispensaries, tuberculosis hospitals and general hospitals
combined. About 15% of detected patients do not enter treatment at all
because of financial barriers. A large number of patients do not complete
treatment for financial reasons.1 For the last decade the program has
failed to achieve reasonable population cure rates except where the majority
of population was insured and where local governments have provided adequate
funding to ensure completion of treatment even for the poor.
20.       The most important elements in total dispensary expenditures are
costs of personnel (25%) and drugs (40%). Average total expenditure per
patient registered is nearly Y 400, of which Y 300 is for drugs. Expenditures
in the dispensary system can conceptually be divided into fixed and variable
costs. While local and provincial governments provide 80% of the fixed costs,
the dispensaries have to make up the remaining 20% which are needed for staff
subsidies, bonuses and even investment in staff housing or other facilities.
They do it through making a net prof..t from the price which they charge for a
drug or lab test over the actual costs (Table 6). About 90% of variable costs
appear to be covered in this way, including receipts from both patient
payments and reimbursements by insurance programs (Table 7). Even drugs
alI In Heilongjiang, only 60-65% TB patients completed the course.



- 70 -                      Annex 2
Page 7 of 18
provided for poor patients can be sold to paying patients and converted to
cash profit.2-3
II. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR POLICY CHANGES
21.       Provide Free Tuberculosis Treatment Financed Through General
laxation. As a principle, almost all countries have accepted that the
treatment of tuberculosis should be free to the patient. Treatment of
patients with smear positive tuberculosis decreases the risk of infection for
the rest of the population. It thus benefits the entire population and may be
seen as a public good in economic terms. It is rational to suggest that the
treatment of infectious tuberculosis should be financed through general
revenues reco-ered from the overall productivity of society since its control
enhances overall social and economic product and preserves the productivity
of both present working age grotups and avoids the disease developing in future
generations. From both a humane and a public goods perspective, most
governments would also finance the treatment of smear negative tuberculosis
and extra-pulmonary tuberculosis in the same way. Recapture of the cost of
tuberculosis treatment of insured patients through reimbursement to the public
system of the costs of their treatment should be a policy element of a free
tuberculosis treatment program.241
22.       The existing incentive structure operates counter to the goals of
cost-effective diagnosis and treatment of tuberculosis patients. It should be
replaced with a structure which would emphasize correct, timely diagnosis and
completion of treatment (cure). This would require no financial barriers for
patients (i.e. free treatment)21 and that provincial governments provide
regular recurrent budgetary funding adequate to cover all fixed costs. This
would eliminate the incentive of the dispensary staff to seek profits from
treatment of patients and it would assist poor communities and disadvantaged
regions.
22J The value of the patient subsidy in Heilongjiang Province could account
for as much as 40% of the total existing variable costs, if completely
used for its intended purpose. However, despite the existence of large
numbers of patients unable to pay for treatment, only an estimated 20%
of the patient subsidy disbursed in 1989/90 in Heilongjiang province,
has actually been directed to treating poor patients.
2L/ Costs charged to insurers would be less under this approach than at
present in China. Sound technical protocols for treatment of all
patients would sharply reduce excessive diagnostic testing, unnecessary
medication and the misdiagnosis and over-diagnosis of tuberculosis
which insurers now must pay.
2U/ This would have to be accompanied by administrative arrangements to
widely publicize the free treatment nature of the program and to
concurrently prohibit dispensary staff from revenue earning activities.



- 71 -                      Annex 2
Page 8 of 18
23.       Replacing the Existing Incentive Structure.  To ensure performance
and efficiency in a reformed tuberculosis dispensary system new program
incentives should encourage desired program outputs. This will mean linking
staff pay and benefits with the achievement of certain targets: (a) false
positive and negative rates on sputum microscopy confirmed by prefectural and
provincial supervisors; (b) a high percentage of smear negative patients
completing a full 6-month chemotherapy, and (c) high cure rate of smear
positive cases.
24.       Reducing the Role of the Specialized Tuberculosis Hospitals.  As a
result of improvement of the dispensary systems, the roles of the specialized
hospitals can be reduced significantly. 261 Free treatment and improved
service at the dispensaries would mean an much increased role for them in
reducing the number of tuberculosis cases as well as the demand for
specialized tuberculosis hospitals (Table 8). The excessive capacity of those
specialized hospitals would have to be dealt with in due course, either by
deliberately closing or transforming the more remote ones into general service
hospitals or by their natural transformation into chest disease hospitals as
has happened in many countries.
III. PROJECTED BENEFITS OF THE PROGRAM
25.       Conceptual Framework.  An improved tuberculosis control program has
both direct and transmission benefits. Like any other health program, direct
benefits are manifested by improved cure rates and lower death rates.11 A
simple way to express this form of direct improvement is to calculate the
percentage of new cases developing each year in the community that are cured.
This community cure rate is a composite reflection of rates of detection,
treatment and cure.
26.       Transmission Benefits.  Reduced transmission of tuberculosis is a
benefit enjoyed by the entire population. Higher cure rates mean fewer
infectious sources present for shorter periods of time in the community. In
general, 100 smear positive cases of tuberculosis cause 2,000 infections; of
these 2,000 infected, about 100 will develop smear positive pulmonary
tuberculosis, another 100 will develop smear negative pulmonary tuberculosis,
and 22 extra-pulmonary tuberculosis. Without treatment, more than 50% of the
smear positive cases and 40% of the smear negative and culture positive cases
Wi1 At present, 44% patients are treated initially in hospitals, 23% of them
complete their therapy in dispensaries while 77% are treated in
hospitals. Over the first five years of the project, hospitalization
should reduce to 20% of all pulmonary patients. Two-thirds of the
hospitalized patients should continue their chemotherapy in
dispensaries.
£1/  In the sections following, quantitative estimates of decreased
prevalence and deaths averted are made using population data and the
change in the community cure rates.



- 72 -
Annex 2
Page 9 of 18
will usually die. This cycle will continue almost indefinitely as the new 100
smear positive cases would again cause 2,000 infections, etc.
27.       Unlike other infectious diseases of which one case has the
potential to cause many other cases, each infectious case of tuberculosis
leads to one, or slightly less than one, new infectious case. Because of this
special epidemiology, tuberculosis control programs have a "ratchet effect".
Any increase in the cure rate no matter how short in duration will reduce the
number of infectious sources and thus the number of future cases and deaths.
The benefit of reduced transmission is not lost even if a tuberculosis control
program stops because the incidence of tuberculosis will not normally increase
even with no control efforts at all. This ratchet effect makes investment in
tuberculosis control worthwhile.
28.       The estimates below of current and future tuberculosis incidence
are based on the annual risk of infection, e.g. the probability that an age
cohort would become infected with tuberculosis in one year. Based on China's
National Epidemiological Surveys of 1984/85, the annual risk of infection is
estimated to be about 1.5% for people between ages 10-19. This risk of
infection imfrlies an incidence of smear positive tuberculosis of 75 per
100,000. The incidence of smear negative tuberculosis is also expected to be
about 75/100,000 and extra-pulmonary tuberculosis about 22/100,000.
29.       It can be conservatively projected that, with the proposed project,
the (annual) decline rate in the risk of infection can reach 8% per vear, in
comparison with the decline rate of about 3% under present condition and
policies.
30.       Direct Benefits.  The increase in the community cure rate means
that fewer patients are mistreated or partially treated, and therefore, fewer
man-made chronic cases are added to the prevalence pool. In Heilongjiang
province, it can be estimated that the ratio of prevaJ3nce to incidence would
decrease from 1.8 to 1.1 by the end of the 8th year.  In absolute terms, it
means a reduction in prevalence from 46,500 to 16,500 cases. The benefit of
reduced incidence of smear positive tuberculosis would continue long after the
investment period of the project. If those cases averted had developed as
disease in the community, they would have been subject to current rates of
detection, treatment, cure and death. The incremental costs for treating
those cases that would have been detected have also been calculated in real
terms providing an estimate of treatment costs averted.
31.       Table 9 summarizes the number of cases expected to be averted each
year, the treatment costs avoided (discounted) and deaths averted through
direct treatment, in Heilongjiang province. In total, the program (without
being sustained at the end of the project) would cost Y 42.7 million which
would mean about 145,00 fewer thousand less smear positive cases, and about
177,000 fewer smear negative cases and extra-pulmonary cases in the period of
credit repayment. These cases averted mean that Y 24.9 million would be saved
from treatment expenses. From direct and transmission effects, a total of
120,000 lives would be saved at an incremental cost per death averted of Y
320. Each death averted represents about 25 years of life saved on average so



- 73 -                       Annex 2
Page 10 of 18
that the cost per year of life saved is only Y 18. The net cost of a good
tuberculosis control program per year of life saved (i.e. the expenses over
what is already being ineffectively spent) is only about Y 8. This makes
tuberculosis control one of the most cost effective public health
interventions that China can possibly undertake, probably even more cost
effective than imranization.
32.       Benefits for Overall Tuberculosis Component.  The above analysis
uses Heilongjiang Province only as a case study developed during project
preparation. Costing of the project depended on developing estimates of case-
load numbers which can be expected to come forward with improved quality, free
treatment. These estimates are based on a doubling of case-detection rates
(from 35% to 70%), a reasonable goal considering the present poor quality of
microscopy and the fact that many patient's detected today simply are not
registered as they cannot pay for treatment and thus simply leave the clinic.
Estimates are that about 1.4 million cases of new smear-positive and
miliary/cavity patients will be detected during the project period. Data to
directly compare this number with the number who are detected, registered and
initiate treatment today, are not available but this probably represents a net
gain of more than a million patients. Of those detected and registered, over
90% are expected to convert to sputum smear-negative status (i.e. to be
cured), compared to less than 55% (of those registered and initiating
treatment) who convert currently. The number of smear-positive patients to be
cured by the PTPs are thus expected to increase from about 136,000 in 1992 to
236,000 by 1996 with declines thereafter because of reduced incidence. In
addition a total of about 200,000 smear-positive re-treatment cases are
expected to come forward during the project period, of whom more than half are
expected to be cured, compared to a much smaller share today (perhaps 10-
20%). Total expected cures can thus conservatively be expected to amount to
about 1.25 million new smear-positive (and miliary/cavitary) cases and 100,000
smear-positive re-treatment cases.   While difficult to estimate the project's
net contribution to this total, it a-st be well over 1 million patients. Each
case of smear-positive tuberculosis cured can reasonably be expected to avoid
the creation of one new case of smear-positive tuberculosis and one later,
additional, tuberculosis death. In addition, about 1.8 million smear-negative
patients are expected to be diagnosed and many of these will seek treatment
and be cured independently.   Project benefits are thus likely to be
considerably higher, and the cost per discounted year of life saved
considerably lower, than indicated by the preliminary case study of one
province.



- 74 -
Annex 2
Page 11 of 18
Annex Table 1
CHINA
Expenditure on Tuberculosis, Heilongiiang 19893
Institution                          Yuan        Distribution
Hospitals                                          34,408,000         76.7%
Tuberculosis Hospitals                          13,255,000        29.6%
Industry Hospitals                              11,577,000        25.8%
Urban General Hospitals                          6,266,000         4.0%
County General Hospitals                         2,824,000         6.3%
Township Hospitals                                 517,000         1.2%
Dispensary                                         10,434,000        23.3%
Total                                                44,842,000        100.08, J
Notes:    Details of estimates are provided in the following tables
and in the text.
Annex Table 2
Income for Tuberculosis, Heilongdiang 1989
Income Source                         Yuan        Distribution
Government                                           12,531,000         28%
Provincial                                          3,232,824          7%
Local                                               9,298,176         21%
Insurance/Industry                                   19,870,600        44%
Patient Payment                                      12,440,400         28%
Total                                                44,842,000        100%
Notes,    Estimates of the insurance/industry contribution are basea on
the assumption that 40% of patient payment is covered by
insurance in aggregate and 100% of the industry hospital
expenditure is financed through industry.



- 75 -
Annex 2
Page 12 of 18
Annex Table 3
Incremental Unit Cost for Case Detection
Incremental
Cost Category                             Unit Cost
(Yuan)
Fluroscopy                                               0.20
Chest X-Ray                                              3.99
Film                                               3.29
Other Materials                                    0.70
3 Sputum Examination                                    0.63
Total                                              4.82
Annex Table 4
Treatment Unit Costs. Heilongjiang
Incremental Unit Cost (Yuan)
Initial
Smear    Retreatment      Smear
Positive   (Positive)    Negative
Drugs                                        127          251           61
3 Sputum Examinations                          1            1
Daily Streptomycin Injection                  34           34
Injection Fee                            9             9
Village Doctor Incentive                 25           25
Records/Materials                              2            2            2
Total                                   164          288          63
Notes:    Drug regimens are computed on the basis of average dispensary
purchase prices.



- 76 -
Annex 2
Page 13 of 18
Annex Table 5
Tuberculosis Dispensaries Income. Heilongiiang 1989
Expenditure Category                   Yuan            Distribution
Total Government Recurrent Payment          4,724,000              39.8%
County Payment                         4,000,000              33.7%
Province Payment                         724,000               6.1%
Total Patient Subsidy                       1,800,000              15.2%
County Subsidy                           800,000               6.7%
Provincial                             1,000,000               8.4%
Total Patient Payment                       5,350,000              45.1%
Drug                                   4,526,923              38.1%
Lab                                      823,077               6.9%
Chest X-Ray                          90,962                3.3%
Laboratory                           226,346               1.9%
Fluroscopy                           102,885               0.9%
Registration/Treatment               102,885               0.9%
Fees
Grand Total Income                         11,874,000             100.0%
Notes:    1)   Provincial payment details provided by government
2)   The county recurrent budget contribution is estimated on the
basis of reports by approximately forty counties. An average
county payment per staff person was computed and then used to
estimate total county and prefectural contribution.
3)   Data on total provincial subsidy was provided; an estimated
80% of counties provided equal subsidy funds to match the
provincial contribution.
4)   Patient payment was estimated using data from about forty
counties and then a total estimate was generated using the
number of staff as an estimator. The split between lab and
drug payment was described in Table 5.



Annex 2
Page 14 of 18
Annex Table 6
Net Earnings from Patient Payment. Heilongiiang. Dispensaries. 1989
Income Category                        Yuan        Distribution
Net Patient Earnings                                1,104,891          96%
Drugs                                              590,468          51%
Lab/Fees                                           514,423          45%
Chest                                   175,933          15%
Lab                                     158,442          14%
Fluro                                    92,596           8%
Fees                                     87,452           8%
Net Earnings from Patient Subsidy                      46,957           4%
Total Net Earnings                                  1,151,848         100%
Notes:    Based on comparison of estimates of patient payment by
category and expenditure by category provided in the previous
tables.



- 78 -                      Auue. I
Page 15 of 18
Annex Table 7
Heilongiian2. Dispensary Expenditure by Category
Expenditure Category                            Total
(Yuan)
Total Fixed Costs (TFC)                                     5,822,848
Government TFC Payment                                   4,724,000
Percent TFC Paid by Government                               81.0%
Total Fixed Cost Deficit                                    (1,098,848)
Net Earnings                                                1,151,848
Total Variable Costs                                        4,611,152
Patient Payment                                        4,245,109
Percent                                                    92.1%
Patient Subsidy Used                                     313,043
Percent                                                     6.8%
Unused Patient Subsidy                                      1,440,000
Total Patient Subsidy/                                           39.0%
Total Variable Costs
Total Variable Costs Minus
Total Patient Subsidy                                   2,811,152
Notes:
1)   Patient subsidy spent on patient treatment is estimated to be no
more than 20%.
2)   Total fixed costs include all personnel costs, operations aid
maintenance costs not a function of the number of patients
diagnosed or treated and BCG costs.
3)   Net earnings are defined as the difference between patient payment
for services and the costs of materials paid by the dispensary to
provide those services or drugs.



- 79 -                       Annex 2
Page 16 of 18
Annex Table 8
Estimated Distribution of Patients
Between Heilonsiiang Hospitals and Dispensaries During Proiect
Pulmonary luberculosis Only
Year              Complete             Hospital/
Hospital           Dispensary           Dispensary
1                    34%                 10%                   56%
2                    26%                 10%                   64%
3                    20%                 10%                   70%
4                    16%                 10%                    74%
5                    12%                 11%                   77%
6                     7%                 13%                   80%
7                     7%                 13%                   80%
8                     7%                 13%                   80%
9                     7%                 13%                   80%
10                   7%                 13%                   80%
Notes:    These estimates assume that free treatment in the dispensary
system will progressively draw patients away from hospitals to
the point where after 6 years only 20% of patients will be
hospitalized; two-thirds of these patients will be treated in
hospitals only for the intensive phase and subsequently
treated in the dispensaries. It would be desirable to
decrease the use of hospitals faster and more completely than
estimated here.



- 80 -                        Annex 2
Page 17 of l8
Annex Table 9
Summary of Transmission Benefits for Heilongjiang
Cases Prevented            Discounted
Treatment         Total
Costs        Discounted
Year                            Smear           Averted          Deaths
Smear         Negative/         (Yuan)
Positive         Extra-
Pulmonary
1I0                                   0                0
2              1,163             1,419           245,278            771
3              2,691             2,691           451,692          1,392
4              3,139              3,829          623,978          1,895
5              3,971             4,844           766,346          2,305
6              4,710             5,746           882,537          2,641
7              5,364             6,544           975,873          2,916
8              5,941              7,248        1,049,301          3,143
9              6,447             7,865         1,105,435          3,330
10             6,259              7,636        1,041,978          3,262
15             5,399              6,587           775,330         2,930
20             4,657              5,682           576,918         2,618
25             4,017              4,901          429,281          2,327
30             3,465              4,228           319,426         2,060
34             3,079              3,756           252,157         1,864
Total          145,194            177,137       20,111,560         80,447
Yuan
Average Cost Per Discounted Death Averted             -    320
Average Net Cost Per Discounted Death Averted         -    133
Average Cost Per Discounted Year of Life Saved        -     18
Average Net Cost Per Discounted Year of Life Saved-          8



- 81 -                      Annex 2
Page 18 of 18
Annex Table 10
Estimated Case Detection Rates with Project
Assumed                  Cases Detected Per 100,000
Detec-
Year   tion__       _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  __ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
Smear      Smear      Retreat-   Total   Extra-
Rate      Positive   Negative   ment        Pulmo-  Pulmo-  Total
nary    nary
1       60         45          45         20       110       16      126
2       67         46          46         20       112       16      129
3       74         47          47         20       114       17      131
4       80         47          47         17       110       16      127
5       80         43          43         14       100       15      115
6       80         40          40         10        89       14      103
7       80         36          36          9        82       13       95
8       80         33          33          8        75       12       87
9       80         31          31          7        69       11       75
10       80         28         28           7       64       10       74
Notes:
1)   The detection rate is assumed to be currently 55% for smear
positive, smear negative and extra-pulmonary tuberculosis.
2)   The estimates of retreatment cases per 100,000 are not based on
this detection rate but derived from an analysis of the existing
pool of chronic cases.
3)   The number of smear positive cases of tuberculosis detected in the
early years of the project will undoubtedly be less than that
estimated here because of the need for substantial improvement ir
microscopy. Many of these smear positive cases will be categorized
as clinically severe smear negative cases requiring treatment with
the smear positive regimen. As such they tuill, in reality, be
detected and treated, only misdiagnosed as smear negative.



- 82 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 26
CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
General Policies and Technical Protocols
to Strengthen and Rationalize Tuberculosis Control Services
in Provinces Participating in the
Infectious and Endemic Disease Control Project
I. Objectives and Approach.
1.        In provinces participating in the tuberculosis component of the
Infectious and Endemic Disease Control Project the objective of the provincial
tuberculosis program will be to carry out health services in a manner that
more effectively and equitably reduces tuberculosis infections and subsequent
disease. The most important way to achieve this objective is to cure a high
percentage of all infectious cases. This will be done through administration
only of standardized, short-course chemotherapy regimens (SCC) for
appropriately defined patient categories. The second most important way to
achieve the objective will be improving case-finding and registration through
better diagnostic services, especially microscopy. Staff responsibilities,
equipment standards, financial arrangements, and dispensary regulations and
detailed procedures, including revised, standard recording and reporting
systems, needed to efficiently implement these activities are defined below
and in the attached Technical Protocols I to V. These policies and the
Technical Protocols shall be strictly followed by all participating provinces.
II. General Organizational Principles.
2.        The tuberculosis components of the Infectious and Endemic Disease
Control Project will form the complete program of tuberculosis control at each
administrative level (provincial, prefectural, urban district and county) in
each province which participates in the project. It is referred to below as
the Provincial Tuberculosis Program (PTP).
3.        Each province shall establish an office to manage the PTP.  The
director shall be the head of the epidemic prevention division of the
provincial health bureau, and the full-time deputy director shall be the
director of the provincial tuberculosis dispensary which will be responsible
to implement and supervise th- PTP.   Dispensary means, at each administrative
level, both separate tuberculosis dispensaries and tuberculosis units within
the Anti-epidemic Stations.
4.        The national Tuberculosis Control Center, a part of the Chronic
Infectious Diseases Division of the Epidemic Prevention Department of the
Ministry of Public Health shall be responsible to provide guidance and
supervision of PTP's included in the Project.
5.        All tuberculosis prevention and control activities in all
dispensaries will be included in the PTP. Hospital care of tuberculosis
patients, and of the BCG vaccination program, which will be carried out by the
Anti-Epidemic Station immunization services only, are excluded from the PTP.



- 83 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 26
Tu.berculosis Dispensaries.
6.        Diagnostic and Treatment Services.  The dispensary system in each
province is responsible for implementation of the program of tuberculosis
control as set forth in the Technical Protocols. Dispensaries shall provide
diagnostic services to detect tuberculosis according to standard case
definitions (see Technical Protocol - I.) for tuberculosis only. They shall
provide treatment services for tuberculosis only in accordance with Technical
Protocol II.
7.        Location and Staffing.  Provincial dispensaries shall be located
separately from the provincial tuberculosis hospital, and shall not share
directors, staff, budgets, or facilities with the hospital.  The dispensary at
other administrative levels in the province shall be located, to the extent
feasible, within, or at, the present site of the Anti-Epidemic Station. A new
building shall not be constructed or rented for the dispensary, especially at
the prefectural and county levels, if rehabilitation or expansion of existing
space is feasible. The number of staff in a dispensary shall be kept to a
minimum (Technical Protocol III). Dispensaries with surplus staff, especially
in urban areas, should arrange with agencies of the local government to
reassign staff to other health work.
8.        Laboratories.  Dispensary laboratories shall be equipped as follows
to carry out the functions specified in Technical Protocol IV:
(a)  Township health center level.  No special medical or diagnostic
equipment shall be provided.
(b)  Major township health center level.  No special medical or
diagnostic equipment. A binocular microscope for sputum
examination may be provided in those cases where the PTP Director
has determined that specific need exists and that staff training in
microscopy has already been provided.
(c)  County (and Urban District) dispensary level.  A binocular
microscope which meets technical standards for bacteriological
examinations of sputum for tubercle bacilli, with ancillary
materials for sputum testing, shall be standard equipment. X-ray
equipment shall be supplied only to dispensaries which do not
currently have them or where current units are outmoded and/or
unsafe. Small refrigerators (c0.25 cubic meters) are acceptable.
Other laboratory equipment shall not be permitted in county
dispensaries and any existing such equipment shall be transferred
to other health institutions for better use, or if not
transferable, shall be disposed of for scrap, prior to January 1,
1992. Dispensaries should refer patients requiring further medical
examination, other than chest radiography or sputum testing, or who
require examination for other disorders, to a local hospital.
Sputa from patients which require bacteriological culture shall be
sent to the nearest reference laboratory approved by the PTP
(usually at provincial level, though sometimes at prefectural level



- 84 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 26
in v.;ry large provinces). Transport suitable to the local area
shall be available for supervision of township units, village/local
doctors, and patients.
(d) The prefectural dispensary level shall be equipped as at the county
level, but with an exception for provision of incubators and
ancillary materials and equipment for culture examination of sputa
only in those cases where the PTP Director has determined that
sufficient need exists and that staff skills are adequate.
Vehicles for guidance and supervision of county programs will be
standard. Equipment suitable for training of PTP staff in improved
microscopy and new, standardized reporting and recording forms
should be available in most prefectures.
(e) The provincial dispensary shall have a laboratory suitably equipped
to serve as the provincial reference laboratory for tuberculosis.
Computers with standardized software for consolidation of registry
data and reporting and analyzing program implementation, and
vehicles suitable for supervision, shall be provided as standard
equipment at this level. Facilities and equipment suitable for
training of PTP staff in improved microscopy and new uniform
reporting and recording systems shall be standard.
9.        Dispensaries shall stock and prescribe only the five drugs approved
for the PTP and its standard chemotherapy regimens (Technical Protocol IV).
Dispensaries shall not stock, sell, give or prescribe medicines, herbs,
vitamins or other products not in the approved chemotherapy regimes. The PTP
shall regularly inspect dispensary drug stocks and confiscate any products not
in the approved regimens.
III. Financing of Dispensary Services.
10.       Each participating province shall make administrative arrangements
to firmly prohibit dispensaries at all levels from charging or receiving any
income from diagnostic, therapeutic or supervisory services provided. As this
will cause a decline in the funds available for compensation and care of the
dispensary staff each participating province shall make and maintain
arrangements so that staff income levels, including salaries, bonuses and all
staff welfare benefits, shall promptly and consistently be maintained at
levels not less than that prevailing for Epidemic Prevantion Station workers
of similar background and experience. In most cases this will mean that
provincial and/or local governments shall promptly inctease the budgets and
payments to dispensaries to meet the full costs of salary, bonus and welfare
entitlement of dispensary staff.
11.       Diagnostic services at all dispensaries and units shall be provided
free of charge to persons suspected of having tuberculosis. All patients
diagnosed with tuberculosis shall be registered and followed-up (have their
sputum re-examined after two months) without charge by the dispensary. Anti-
tuberculosis drugs shall be provided by all dispensaries without charge to
eligible patients (Technical Protocol II - para. 3-4).



Annex 3
- 85 -                     Page 4 of 26
12.       Eligible patients who are insured by enterprises, or state and
local governments or collective work units will also be treated without direct
charge. The PTP will consolidate, quarterly, the registry information for
treatment provided to insured patients. This information shall be provided to
appropriate government and enterprise insurance offices to arrange prompt
reimbursement of the costs to the PTP for treatment of insured persons.
13.       Patients ineligible for free chemotherapy shall also be registered
and followed-up without charge from the dispensary, but must purchase
standardized chemotherapy regimen drugs for their trestment from a pharmacy
not associated with the dispensary. Smear negative patients not eligible for
free chemotherapy will normally take drugs under self-administration.
IV. Monitoring and Evaluation.
14.       In participating provinces r *ording and reporting of tuberculosis
case-finding and treatment and of dispensary activities, and evaluation of the
PTP, shall be performed only in accordance with the provisions of Technical
Protocol V, and the standard forms and attachments thereto. These forms and
attachments shall not be modified by participating provinces. Training in use
and completion of the standard forms shall be provided by each provincial
dispensary only with the use of materials and pedagogical procedures provided
by the national Tuberculosis Control Center. Training in the completion and
use of Forms 1 and 3 will be started before the first year of the PTP and will
be continued annually. Training in completion and use of Form 2 (Cohort
Analysis) will be started only for those PTPs which have at least one county
which has completed 12 months of the program.  Training of counties to
complete Form 2 will be started only when each county has completed at least
12 months of the program.



- 86 -                      Annex 3
Page 5 of 26
Technical Protocol I
DEFINITIONS OF TUBERCULOSIS CASES
Initially treated case:        A smear-positive patient who has never
previously taken anti-tuberculosis drugs (or
who has previously taken anti-tuberculosis
drugs for less than 1 month).
Re-treatment Case:             A sputum-positive patient who has previously
taken anti-tuberculosis drugs for 1 month or
more.
It is essential that a smear-positive patient should be carefully
questioned before treatment is started as to whether he has previously taken
anti-tuberculosis drugs. Sputum-positive patients who have previously taken
anti-tuberculosis drugs for 1 month or more must be suspected of discharging
tubercle bacilli resistant to isoniazid and/or streptomycin. Such patients
must be prescribed the re-treatment regimen. The group of re-treatment r.ases
consists of:
- Relapse case:           A patient previously treated for tuberculosis
and considered cured but who now is smear-
positive again;
- Failure case:           A patient who is smear-positive at 5 months or
more after the start of chemotherapy for
initially treated cases of tuberculosis;
- Smear-positive case after defaulting:
a patient who interrupted the treatment between
one and five months after the start of
chemotherapy and returned to treatment, and was
found positive again;
Chronic excreter:              a patient who has been discharging tubercle
bacilli after having completed the re-treatment
regimen in this project
Smear Negative Case:           all othc2 cases not meeting above definitions
but with positive radiological and/or clinical
indications strongly suggestive of
tuberculosis.



- 87 -                     Annex 3
Page 6 of 26
Technical Protocol II
CASE-FINDING AND CHEMOTHERAPY
Case-finding and diagnosis
1.        Case-finding for pulmonary tuberculosis under the PTP should be
based only on the examination of self-referred patients at general health
service institutions. Persons who have productive cough that lasts for 3 weeks
or more, frequently accompanied by loss of weight, chest pain, shortness of
breath,fever, or hemoptysis shall be considered tuberculosis suspects and
should be referred to the local dispensary.
2.        In the dispensaries the screening method shall be X ray examination
of the chest (usually fluoroscopy). Patients with no lung abnormalities will
usually have no examination of sputum by microscopy. Patients with a suspicion
of active tuberculosis shall have chest X-ray taken and at least 3 sputum
specimens examined for tubercle barilli at the microscopy laboratory. The
first sputum specimen shall be taken on the same day, and a sputum container
should be given to the patient for the overnight sputum collection to be
brought to the dispensary the next day when the third specimen is collected on
the spot.
3.        If acid fast bacilli are found tuberculosis shall be considered to
be confirmed (smear-positive). The patient is entitled to receive
tuberculosis treatment free of charge. The patient's name and the
bacteriological status must be inserted in the county (or urban district)
tuberculosis registry immediately. In case the patient does not appear for
treatment within a week, the dispensary must send the results of examinations
to the village doctor, with a request to send the patient to the dispensary to
collect anti-tuberculosis drugs.
4.        If the results of sputum examination are negative and the X-ray is
strongly suggestive of active pulmonarv tuberculosis the diagnosis of sputum
smear-negative pulmonary tuberculosis shall be made. The patient must
immediately be registered in the county (or urban district) registry.
Tuberculosis chemotherapy shall then be prescribed but the patient is not
entitled to receive free iti-tuberculosis drugs except if his/her X-ray shows
cavitary or miliary tuberculosis. Pulmonary smear-negative patients, and
chronic excreters, who are not eligible to receive free chemotherapy must also
be entered in the registry. Smear-negative patients are to be given a
prescription for the standard, low-cost, smear-negative regimen of
chemotherapy which they should purchase from a pharmacy not associated with
the dispensary. They should be advised to come for further sputum examinations
if symptoms are worsening or after two months. Chronic excreters and severely
ill tuberculosis patients should always be referred to the nearest appropriate
hospital and must always be entered immediately into the registry.
5.        The village doctor shall be responsible for ensuring that patients.
in his village collect anti-tuberculosis drugs at the dispensary. A referral
fee (5 yuan if a patient is found to be a new smear-positive) will be given by



- 88 -                     Annex 3
Page 7 of 26
the PTP to the village doctor at the start of the patient's tuberculosis
treatment prescribed by the dispensary.
6.        Extra-pulmonary tuberculosis will be usually diagnosed and treated
in the local general hospital, but all cases must be registered at the
dispensary.
ChemotheraRy - General principles
7.        All patients with newly diagnosed smear-positive tuberculosis,
including smear-positive re-treatment cases and pulmonary smear-negative
tuberculosis with cavitary or miliary lesions (subject to an aggregate limit
annually of up to 25% of all initially diagnosed smear-positive cases during
the first two years of the PTP and up to 15% during the third to seventh year
of the PTP), will receive chemotherapy free of charge. All the regimens must
be in accordance with this Technical Protocol. All regimens are intermittent
and are to be prescribed for use on an out-patient basis. Drug administration
is to be supervised in urban areas by the district dispensary staff, and in
rural areas by village doctors under the guidance of the county (or major
township) dispensary.
8.        The initial intensive phase is to be given under direct supervision
(in the presence) of the village doctor in rural areas and of the district
dispensary staff in urban areas. The continuation phase may be self-
administered. Anti-tuberculosis drugs during the continuation phase are to be
collected by the patient in urban areas every month. In rural areas the drugs
for the intensive and continuation phases should be collected by the patient
every one or every two months, depending on the distance from the village to
the dispensary and the season.
9.        Treatment results in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis must be
monitored by sputum microscopy examination (2 smears each time) at fixed
intervals (after 2 and 5 months, and at the end of treatment).
10.       The duration of treatment should be strictly adhered to (the
patient must receive the full course of treatment, and the treatment should be
discontinued at completion. Upon successful completion the patient should be
taken off the tuberculosis registry and should not be followed up (his/her
Tuberculosis Iteatment Card should be filed under "ex-patients").
11.       A service fee of Y5 will be paid by the dispensary to village
doctors or other health workers who originally refer tuberculosis suspects to
the dispensary for examination, if the diagnosis of tuberculosis is confirmed.
Service (case management) fees to the village doctor for supervising
completion of treatment for patients receiving free treatment shall be paid by
the PTP (after the final collection of sputum at the end of treatment). IThe
case management fee for a smear-negative patient shall be Y40, of which at
least Y30 must be paid directly to the village doctor supervising the patient,
and of which YIO may be paid to a township level supervisor in those cases and
in those townships where the supervisor has been personally active in
supervising the work of the village doctor and ensuring full compliance with



- 89 -                     Annex 3
Page 8 of 26
all technical protocols. The case management fee for a smear-positive
patients shall be Y50, of which at least Y40 must be paid directly to the
village doctor supervising the patient. Y10 may be paid to a township level
supervisor in cases and in those townships where the supervisor has been
personally active in supervising the work of the village doctor and ensuring
full compliance with all technical protocols. The provincial government is
responsible for ensuring that funds are available to the PTP dispensary
director to pay promptly all referral and case management fees when due.
Regimens to be used
A.        New smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis and smear-negative with
cavitary or miliary lesions:
Intensive phase:          isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and streptomycin
(or ethambutol) given intermittently for 2 months
every other day (a total of 30 doses).
Continuation phase:       isoniazid and rifampicin given for 4 months
intermittently every other day (a total of 60
doses).
2HRZS/4HR or 2HRZE/4HR intermittently every other day
[N.B.Ethambutol should not be given to children (0-14 years)]
B.        New smear-negative pulmonary tuberculosis with active radiological
lesions
Intensive phase:          isoniazid, rifampicin and pyrazinamide for 2 months
given intermittently every other day (30 doses).
Continuation phase:       isoniazid and rifampicin (or ethambutol) every other
day for 2 months (30 doses).
2HRZ/2HR or 2HRZ/2HE intermittently every other day
[N.B. 1) If the patient is smear-positive at 2 months (false-
negative on    entry), he/she should be given the continuation
phase under A (new smear-positive cases)
2) Ethambutol should not be given to children (0-14 years)]
C.        Re-treatment regimen (relapses, failure, smear-positive cases after
defaulting).
Intensive phase:          isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide, streptomycin
and ethambutol given for 2 months, intermittently
every other day (30 doses).



- 90 -                      Annex 3
Page 9 of 26
Continuation phase:        isoniazid, rifampicin and ethambutol given for 6
months, every other eay (90 doses).
2HRZSE/6HRE intermittently every other day.
[N.B. A retreatment case with side effects to streptomycin
should be given the initial intensive phase with HRZE for
three months followed by HRE for five months]
Doaae of drugs
DRUtJ                INTERMITTENT EVERY OTHER DAY DOSE         MAXIMUM
mg                  mg/kg        max mg
-<50 kg       >50kg
ISONIAZID    (H)       500            600             15           750
XICFMPICIN   (R)       600            600             10           600
PYRAZINAMIDE (Z)      1500           2000             40          2500
STREPTOMYCIN (S)       750            750             30          1000
ETHAMBUTOL   (E)      1000           1250             40          2000



- 91 -                     Annex 3
Page 10 of 26
Technical Protocol III.
DUTIES AND ROLES OF TUBERCULOSIS UNITS AND STAFF
1.        At the provincial level, the provincial dispensary is responsible
for implementation of .he PTP. Its main functions are as follows:
(a)  Planning of the operational steps to implement and supervise  the
PTP .
(b)  Monitoring and evaluating the PTP in accordance with the Technical
Protocol V and quarterly reporting to the Tuberculosis Control
Center of the Ministry of Public Health.
(c)  Coordination of the PTP at prefectural and county levels, and with
Anti-Epidemic Stations, and general and tuberculosis hospitals,
etc.
(d)  Acquisition and distribution of equipment and supplies needed in
the PTP, in particular:
-    anti-tuberculosis drugs (to check whether drugs are
ordered,and properly delivered, stored and distributed to the
prefectural and county levels);
-    laboratory equipment and stains;
-    forms, registers, manuals;
(e)  Training of the personnel carrying out the PTP.
(f)  Organization of the health education program on tuberculosis
control.
2.        The staff quota for a provincial dispensary shall be approximately
as follows for a province of about 40 million inhabitants. Larger and smaller
provinces, and differing geographical and transportation conditions which may
require other staffing quotas for efficient conduct of the PTP.
(a) Professionals: (Total 10)
1 Director (senior grade)
1 Vice-Director (senior grade)
5 Supervisors (senior and intermediate grade)
1 Training Coordinator
1 Statistician
1 Physician responsible for supplies
(b) Provincial Tuberculosis Reference Laboratory: (Total 9)
1 Director (Senior laboratory specialist)
1 Deputy (Senior laboratory technician)
3 Supervisors (Senior and intermediate laboratory



- 92 -                      Annex 3
Page 11 of 26
technicians)
2 Microscopists
2 Laboratory technician for culture and sensitivity
tests
(c)   Financial Officer
(d) Administration (Clerks)
3.        At the prefectural level the dispensary has the following
responsibilities and tasks:
(a) To work closely with the provincial dispensary in implementation of
control measures in sections l.a to l.f above.
(b) To coordinate and supervise tuberculosis control in counties (and
urban districts) and to supervise the personnel involved in
diagnosis and treatment of tuberculosis. For this purpose the
prefecture supervisor or his staff must regularly visit each county
(district) dispensary at least every 3 months.
(c)  To organize training programs for county (and district)
dispensaries in collaboration with the provincial dispensary, and
to give on-the-Job training to dispensary staff.
(d) To ensure that quarterly reports (Technical Protocol V.) on case-
finding and results of chemotherapy are made by each county
(district) and sent promptly to the prefecture. These reports
should be carefully checked for completeness and correctness before
forwarding promptly to the provincial dispensary. Follow-up
supervision and training of county staff should be provided to
improve quality of the quarterly reports which are found to be
deficient.
(e) Distribution of anti-tuberculosis drugs and laboratory supplies
needed by the dispensaries in the prefecture.
(f)  Cor-dination of anti-tuberculosis activities with general hospitals
and the Anti-Epidemic Stations.
4.        Staff for an average prefecture of 3-5 million population should be
approximately as follows:
(a) Professionals: (Total 7)
1 Director (senior grade)
1 Vice-Director (senior grade)
3 Supervisors (senior and intermediate grade)
2 Physicians for the routine work
(b) Laboratory: (Total 6)



- 93 -                      Annex 3
Page 12 of 26
1 Director (Senior Laboratory Technician)
3 Supervisors (Senior Laboratory Technician)
2 Laboratory Technician for the routine work
(c) Financial Officer 1
(d)  Clerk    1
5.        At the county (and urban district) level the dispensary has the
following responsibilities and tasks:
(a) To implement the PTP at the county level;
(b) To supervise treatment throughout the county and particularly to
ensure that:
- only the new standardized regimens are prescribed;
- patients enrolled on the new chemotherapy regimens by the
dispensary are closely supervised by health staff;
- regimens are given for the required period;
p patients who have completed the prescribed course of treatment
promptly stop treatment.
(c) To assist health workers in the improvement of diagnosis and
patient referral to dispensar'es in all existing health facilities
of the county (district).
(d) To promptly and accurately complete the county register and
standard quarterly reports, particularly to ensure that all
patients detected (all types) in the county are registered and to
check that the results of microscopy on entry and that the results
of treatment by smear examination of sputum, are properly
completed.
(e) To be responsible for distribution and use of supplies, namely
anti-tuberculosis drugs, laboratory reagents, sputum containers,
and registry forms for the county.
Staff for the average county of 600,000 population should be approximately 8
in number, as follows. Adjustments (increases) in staff should be allowed for
areas where the incidence is high, transportation is difficult, or the
population is scattered.
1 Director
1 Deputy-Director
2 Supervisors
1 Laboratory Technician
1 Auxiliary Laboratory Technician
1 Clerk (for statistics and finance)
1 Clinical physician for OPD work



- 94                        Annex j
Page 13 of 26
Technical Protocol IV.
TUBERCULOSIS LABORATORY SERJICES
1.   Structure and Responsibilities
A National Tuberculosis Reference Laboratory eventually should be established
to be responsible for all tuberculosis laboratory services under the
leadership of the Tuberculosis Control Center of the Ministry of Public
Health. Its role gradually should developed as follows:
(a) to coordinate tuberculosis laboratory services in China;
(b) to train and supervise laboratory technicians from the Provincial
tuberculosis laboratories;
(c) to standardize the methods of laboratory examinations;
(d) to develop a suitable quality control system for testing
supervision of the quality of laboratories at each level.
2.        In order to improve the bacteriological services the following
steps shall be taken by the PTP:
(a)   At the provincial dispensary reference laboratory:
(i) to develop ard implement a system for supe,~.-,ion of the
microscopy network in the province, including a ,uitable quality
control system for microscopy;
(ii) to train and supervise laboratory technicians and supervisors
at the prefecture level;
(iii) to standardize the preparation and distribution of staining
solutions from prefectures to county laboratories;
(iv) to carry out reliable sensitivity tests for resistivity of
tubercle bacilli to isoniazid, streptomycin, rifampicin, anid
ethambutol;
(v) to determine the pattern of primary resistance in the province;
(vi) to cooperate closely with the Provincial Anti-Epidemic Station
laboratory (in training,   'ervision, and quality control).
(b)  At the prefecture disp %.    laboratory:
(i) to undertake regular supervision of the county (and urban
district) microscopy laboratories;



- 95 -                      Annex 3
Page 14 of 26
(ii) to periodically retrain laboratory techni.cians working at the
county and urban district dispensaries;
(iii) to cooperate closely with the prefecture Anti-Epidemic
Station (in training and supervision);
(iv) In prefectures new culture laboratories should not be
established. For prefecture laboratories with existing equipment
for cultures new equipment should not be purchased and culture
examination should gradually be transferred to the provincia'l
laboratory. Prefectural laboratory staff should concentrate on
quality control and supervision of county laboratory.
(c) At the county (and urban district) level
(i) to follow technical procedures for improved sputum examination
by direct microscopy according to detailed procedures to be issued
by the national Tuberculosis Control Center;
(ii) to carefully record results of sputum microscopy in the new
standard laboratory Register to be used by all dispensaries in the
PTP;
(iii) to report results of smear examination to the dispensary
treatment unit without delay.
(d) At the township level:
Microscopy centers will not be established at the township level
unless, in exceptional cases, the county population is
exceptionally large or distances from villages to the county
dispensary are very long. Microscopy laboratories at this level
will follow the same procedures as dispensaries at the county
level.
3.   Training of laboratory technicians
(a) Standard training for laboratory technicians. The provincial and
prefectural tuberculosis laboratory staff should each annually
receive refresher training in the following topics:
(i) Standardization of procedures for microscopy examination of
sputum for tubercle bacilli, recording and reporting of the results
using the standard new forms for this PTP.
(ii) Methods of teaching the county laboratory staff, the
techniques in (i) above, and maintenance of microscopes, safety in
laboratory work, and preparation and maintenance of smear staining
solutions.



LZ.b. j1 J UX 4
(iii) Establishing and using quality control systems for the
microscopy laboratory network.
(iv) Methods for evaluating the technical performance of
microscopicts.
(v) Supervisory visit techniques and improved format and techniques
for writing supervision reports.
(vi) Management of the acquisition and distribution of laboratory
materials.
Participants: in each course, 10-15 senior laboratory technicians already
working in microscopy laboratories at the provincial and prefectural levels.



- 97 -                      &ILI L  J.
Page 16 of 26
Technical Protocol V
RECORDING. REPORTING and EVALUATIQN
1.        The maintenance o', accurate records on each individual patient, and
periodic reporting is essertial to the good management of the PTP at each
level.
Recording
2.        Data collected should give as true a picture as pct;lble of what is
actually happening in the program of diagnosing and treatinig . The data
should be reliable, relevant and uniform. To achieve this and provide the
basis for sound management of the PTP a standard set of documents and reports
must be used by all dispensaries in the PTP. These are cittached and shall
not be modified in any wa.n
Reporting
3.        Report; on case-finding and treatment results must be reported from
the county (or urban district) dispensary to the provincial dispensary, via
the prefecture dispensary
Three forms (attached) to be used are:
-    Quarterly report on new cases and relapses of tuberculosis;
-    Quarterly report on the results of treatment of smear-positive
pulmonary tuberculosis patients registered 12-15 months earlier;
and
-    Quarterly report on Program Management.
4.        These three forms are to be completed by each county (or urban
district) dispensary director, checked by the prefecture dispensary and
submitted promptly to the provincial dispensary where the forms are to be
computerized for easy retrieval. and production of analytical reports.
Evaluation
5.        The following performance indices are to be used for evaluation:
(a)  Case-finding.  It is expected that complete information on case-
finding for each province should be achieved within one year after
the start of the PTP, through introducing the new standard Register
in all dispensaries within 3 months. This will enable the
provincial dispensary to make reliable estimates for anti-
tuberculosis drug supplies, based ^r. the number of reported cases
and their trend from the 3rd quarter onwards. Moreover, it will be
possible to identify quickly dispensaries with a low detection
rate, low proportion of bacteriologically confirmed cases, etc.,
and to improve the siLtuation.



- 98 -                       Annex 3
Page 17 of 26
(b) Treatment. Starting at the second year of the PTP only, new smear-
positive cases and smear-positive relapses will be evaluated
separately by cohort analysis every 3 months in all dispensaries.



- 99 -
PROVINCIAL TUBERCULOSIS PROGRAMME                                                            Annex 3
Page 13 of 26
Pautnts regiueted duning
Quarterly report No. 1
Now cases and relapses or tuberculosis    =             quarter o   E
Nwae ct Courty (oistrict) Offer:                Name ' %;ounty (Oistrict):
Dae, of doo _ ibon of this fhrm:
EXTRA-
PULMONAAY TUSERCULOSIS   SSMEAR-   PULONARY_A
SMEAA-POSiTIVE CASES          N ItiGATIVE TUBERCU-           TOTAL ()
(3)        LOSIS (4)
Now Case* (1)    F laptes (2)
lock|i    MaleeFem       Total   U  I F    M    F"                               Tt
NEW SMEAR-POSmVE CASES from C            Cdumn (1) 
Ag-rup (years)
014     15-24  |35-44    45-54  | 544 | -74  |75 or mora                          TOTAL
Slock2            lm                                          P         r r       F   Male sFmrs TotW
E-xpanatinor un how to fill In the form:
County (D1riR Register Number s Identalt numbr of the dltc
Cuatrs:       I at 1quater   - January. Febmuay. Mach
2nd quar      a Apri. May. Juno
3rd quwrter   a July. August September
4th quartr    - October. Nowmbr. Dcmber
rSok 1: NEW CASES AND RELAPSES OF TUSERCULOSIS registrd during             quaner of (year)
Fig In ts quatr and the yer.
Cdumn(1):    NEW SMEAR-POSITI *patll.5withpulmonarytube ss. sputum            r-poe who
CASES               ha  new reeld  antituberculosie treame  (or ham had
loe han ; -nth iMnO.
Coumn R2):    SMEAR-POSITIVE RELAPS a paint WtM pulmonry tuberculosis, sputm  mew-poele1, who
hem been declaed curdo but are new smer-posite again.
Column(3):    SMEAR-NEATIVECASES a patie whh pulmownry tuberculosis, hati nga rnegaithe su m lor
APB. In whom th dbgns         woea ai ma  by means
adr  hn sputum  microsopy
Coumn (4):    EXTRA-PULMONARY         *paint with tubosis of rgn    er ttan the hkmnge
TUSERCULOSIS
Column ():    TOT  Males              -Add l mtdn patint In ackhmn s I * 2.  3 + 4
Female            -Add a femal patients nounn   + 2 + 3   4
ToWl              - Add al patent (mele * mals) in ockmns 1.24534
Slck 2: NEW SMEAR-POSITIVE CASES: ftrom Cokumn (1) abo
In this block enter the patnS (alredy recorded In Skock I. column (1)) acordin to their E and ae ogroup.



PROVINCIAL TUBERCULOSIS PROGRAMME
Quarterly Report No. 2
REPORT ON THE RESULTS OF TREArMENT OF SMEAR-POSiTIVE PULMONARY
TUBERCULOSIS PATIENTS REGISTERED 12-15 MONTHS EARLIER
Name of County (Dlstrlct    _                  Patients registered during    Date of completion of Ihs form:
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 19
Name of County (Distrct)
Tubercuosis Oer                 -                quarter oi  19               Signatute:
(1)         (2)      (3)    (4)        (5)        (6)
Total No. pat-
lents regLstered     Rgimen          Cured     Treatment          Failure            Transferred    Total number
during the                        (smear-   compleled   Died  (smear-  Defaulted  to another       evaiuated
above quarter                      negative)  (no smear-         positive)            County    (sum of columns
results)                             (Disirkl)        1 to 6)
MF T
1. Smear-positIve
Cases
-  _ _ _ _    1.1  N ew   Cases                                                                                            CD_ _   _ _ ___ _   _ _   _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _  
-   -   _______  1.2   O ther  Initial__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __                      _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1.3 Total
. .Reheaatment
2.1 relapses
_22 others
0
(failure cases
returned after
defaulting. a,1
etc.)           :
2.3 Tota
*Patints fpeiousy reporned as smear-negatiWe who were not Ireated and became smear-positive.



- 101 -
Annex 3
Page 20 of 26
TUBERCULOSIS PROGRAMME
QUARTERLY REPORT No. 3
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AT PREFCTURAL/CITY LEVEL
Name of prefecture/city                       _    Year ...... Quarter
Name of the officer                                 Date of completion ........
1. NUMBER OF COUNTIES/DISTRICTS INVOLVED IN THE TB PROGRAM
1.1 Number of county/district tuberculosis servi_...s
which started the new PTP during the quarter.
1.2 Total number of TB services participating in the new PTP
at the end of the quarter
1.3 Total number of TB services in the prefecture/city:
2. NUMBER OF QUARTERLY REPORTS ON PROGRAMME MANAGEMENT RECEIVED FROM THE
PARTICIPATING COUNTIES/DISTRICTS:
2.1 Received and -closed
2.2 Reports not received from the following units:
3. SUPERVISORY ACTIVITIES
3.1 Total number of supervisory visits by prefectural/city
staff to county/districts during the quarter
3.2 Number of counties/districts received supervisory
visits at least once during the quarter
3.3 Number of counties/districts not visited by the
prefectural/city staff during the previous two quarters:
Names:   ..............................



- 102 -
Annex 3
"age 21 of 26
TUBERCULOSIS PROGRAMME
QUARTERLY REPORT No. 3
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AT COUNTY/DISTRICT LEVEL
Name of County/District                              Year ....... Quarter.
Name of the officer                                  Date of completion ........
NB: The prefecture/city dispensary also submits this form if it maintains a
tuberculosis register.
1. Number of tuberculosis cases registered during the above quarter
by treatuent status:
STARTED             STARTED    NOT      TOTAL
ON FREE (OF WHICH)  ON PAY  TREATED
SCC   ( HAVE  )   SCC
(INSURANCE)
1.1 Initial SM+  2HRZS(E)/4HR                        X
1.2 Initial SM-  2HRZ/2HR(HE)   X           X
2HRZS(E)/4HR                       x
1.3 Retreat SM+  2HRZSE/6HRE  _
TOTAL                                     _
NB: A list of names and work units of insured patients receiving free treatment
is enclosed in ANNEX I.
2.  Payments made  to village  doctors  and  others  for  case  detection  and
supervision of drug administration during the above quarter.
Number of    Total
payments     amount
paid
2.1   For case-detection and start of treatment
of new smear positive patients (5 yuan)
2.2   For supervision of patient treatment,
after collection of final sputum.
- For free initial regimen patients
(40 yuan minimun)
- For free smear positive retreatment
patients
(50 yuan minimum)



- 103 -                      Annex 3
Page 22 of 26
3. Sputum conversion rate at 2 (3) months in smear-positive patients enrolled
on short-course chmotherapy one quarter previously (4 to 6 months ago).
Total smear                   Of them, sputum conversion
positive cases
enrolled on SCC               at 2 months    at 3 months
one quarter previous           No.             No.
3.1 New cases
Other initial cases
3.2 Relapses
Other retreatment
cases
TOTAL                       _
4. Consumption of drugs during the last quarter
Report number of tablets, capsules or vials.
R    Z    E    H      S
300  500  400  300
mg   mg   mg   mg  vials
4.1 Stock on 1st day of the quarter
4.2 Drugs received from the PTP
4.3 Drugs distributed to patients
4.4 Stock on last day of the quarter
5. Consumption of other items                        Micro-  Sputum
scope    Con-    X-ray
slide   tainer   film
5.1 Stock on 1st day of the quarter
5.2 Items received from the PTP
5.3 Items used for patients
5.4 Stock on last day of the quarter                              _
6. Supervisory activities
Number of
visits
6.1 Visits to newly enrolled free treatment patients
6.2 All other supervision visits



- 104 -                     Annex 3
Paee 23 of 26
7. Examination of tuberculosis suspects
7.1 Number of suspects examined, based on Clinical
OPD service book
7,2  Number of active tuberculosis cases discovered
8. Number of persons examined by X-ray
8.1 by fluoroscopy
8.2 by radiography
9. Number of persons vith sputum examined by microscopy
9.1  Number of persons examined
of them:
9.2  New patients (number of persons)                         _ 
Number of sputum examinations
Number of smear-positive cases discovered
9.3 Follow-up (Number of persons)
Number of sputum examinations



PROVINCIAL TB PROGRAM
COUNTY TUBERCULOSIS REGISTER
Date      Frt                                   Category of patient"
Date      County                   Sex                              Name Treatment Unit    staut     troat-    Disuase
of tog-      TB    Name (in tug)   MWF   Age    Addiess (in uln)      (of Village Doctot)    treat-    Mront of  cdlu-                       Transfte   Treat
tetratlon    No.                                                                           mwnt and tnsurance   cation     Now      Reapse      In        ather    Other
reglnn                PIEP       (N)       (R)       (1)     dctautt    (0)
(0)
I_ _  _        __            -     -_      _         _                                        .___   ._ _   _    _       _ _      _                                         c
HRZS(E)- Smear-Poelitve fegkrnen               Mark thes approprlate column:                          Transfer In (17): patient tran6leired nino the County hiorn 
MMIi:  Smarw-Negative Regimen                 New case (N): patient who has never                     another County (dIgticte).
HRZSE: Felresatrnen                           pieviously had treatmnent for tubercul-                 Treatmeot after default (0): patient startilng
olsl (or lose than I mntnh)                             treatmentn agaln slier delaulting-
Reltapse (Ii): patient previously treated               Other (0): situations ditlisrnt frorm the 4 mentiloned above,
and oonsidered cured but who now Is                    lor Instance - rvireatment: other reireatmewnt than relapses
smear-positie again.                                           - Initia treatment: patients previously reported
as smear-negative whio were not treated and became
Smear-positve.



COUNTY TUBERCULOSIS REGISTER (Continued)
YEAR
Sputum examlnation (Nos. Indicate months of treatment)                                          Date treatment stopped'
Upper space: resuH       Lower space: laboratory number
2            3       4           5          6
Pre-treatment
End of Month                           Cured     Treatment                                                 Remarks
Local  Ref. lab.                                              Remark    (bacl.    completed    Died  Bacteriology  Defaulted  Transferred
Smear  Smear  Cult.  2nd   3rd   4th   5th   6th  >8th                   negative)   (no bacl.)            posilive                 out
~~~___                           X___   _____   ___   ____                                           ____    ____
Enter date in the appropriate column                                 3. Death : patient known to have died from any cause whatsoever
1. Cured: treatment completed and negative smear                        4. Failure: smear-positive 5 months or more after start of chemotherapy
results at the end of treatment and previously                        5. Defaulted : patient who has not collected the drugs for > 2 months and was
smear-negative during the continuation phase.                           smear-negative at the last smear examination, before defaulting. If he         >
2. Treatment completed: no or only 1 negative                             was ever smear-positive at the last examination he should be classified
smear result.                                                           under column 4, * Bacteriology Positive.                                      x
6. Transferred out: patient who has been transferred to the jurisdiction of
another County (district).                                                 o
. .                                          _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0t.



TUBERCULOSIS LABORATORY REGISTER
Year
Sputum Collected
from_         Results
Lab.                     Sex           Name of           Address                  Follow-  Specimen   Signature   Remarks
Serial  Date  Names (2)  MIF  Age  Treatment Unit   (ln new patients)   Diagnosis'   up*    1  2  3
No.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _       _ _  _   __                          _               0 
t these are diagnosed new or relapsed cases
these are all other patients; enter County (District) TB No.



- 108 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 10
CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Schistosomiasis In China
A. The characteristics of different endemic areas.
1.        Marshlands and lake regions.  These areas are mainly distributed
along the Yangtze River and its southern lakes (including the Dongting Lake
and Poyang Lake) in Hunan, Hubei, Jiangxi, Jiangsu and Anhui provinces, where
water levels change greatly from season to season. The greater the changes in
water level, the larger the lake beach areas and Oncomelania snail infested
areas. For example,the silt deposit in the Dongting Lake causes an annual
increase of 60000-70000 chinese mu of lake beaches where snails may infest
several years later.
2.        Oncomelania snails are extensively distributed on lake beaches
that submerge 15 days to 5 months annually, but rarely on those submerged over
8 months or those that do not become submerged. On lake beaches associated
with only small changes in water level, the snails mainly infest in the slowly
flowing small rivers, ditches, paddy fields etc. Quite a few Oncomelania
snails infest which flow into the lake. The density of snails can be very
high in the irrigation canals, sub-canals, sluice gates and holes.
3.        Water bodies are mainly contaminated by the excreted feces of
humans and domestic animals, especially cattle. Certain employment groups who
have high rates of infection are important sources of continued contamination
of water bodies. For example, high snail infection rates can be found in the
canals and berthing places frequented by itinerant boatmen and their families
in the lake region.
4.        Schistosomiasis infection occurs all year.  Many infections occur
during the period from April to June when the residents take up grass-cutting
and fishing activities. A larger number of acute infections occur through
harvesting and swimming from June to September. In October and November,
infections happen through fishing and boating. Acute infections also break
out among people from non-endemic areas when they visit or take employment in
endemic areas.
5.        Mountain regions.   Endemic mountainous regions are distributed in
all the endemic provinces. Among these, the endemic areas of Fujian,
Guangdong, Guangxi (all now under control), Sichuan and Yunnan are basically
or completely hilly and mountainous regions. With uneven terrain and
complicated environment these areas are usually remote and isolated from each
other.
6.        Snails are usually distributed along the water systems which flow
from mountain slopes. It is common for snails to be found in one stream of a
mountain but not another. In the same water system, snails can infest water
courses from the uppermost to the lower ditches and pejdy fields. Floods may
spread the snails to previously uninfected areas. eater courses are mainly



- 109 -
An;iex 4
Page 2 of 10
contaminated by using human or domestic animal feces as fertilizer and by the
washing of night commodes, etc. During herding, the stools of cattle and
shepherd boys can cause infection of snails in previously uninfected areas anld
infection of snails tends to increase from upper to lower parts of the same
water system.
7.        The local residents are mainly infected through their day-to-day
activities. Males get infected through washing hands, feet and farm tools
after fieldwork, while women often can be infected when washing clothes and
night commodes, and children by catching fish and playing in the water. The
main infection season is from April to September. Few acute and advanced
cases of schistosomiasis occur in these mountainous regions.
B. Characteristics of Schistosomiasis Infection.
8.        Prevalence and intensity of infection.  The prevalence of
schistosomiasis varies among endemic, counties, cities, even villages of the
same township, depending on density of oncomelania sr,ails, especially of
infected snails, and frequency of human water contact. In some heavily
endemic areas, prevalence may reach 60-70%--even 90% or more in some villages.
9.        The intensity of infection indicates the worm burden of the
infected individual. The more parasites, the heavier the intensity of
infection and more obvious the symptom of the disease. Generally, prevalence
is positively associated with the intensity of infection. The higher the
prevalence in an endemic area, the heavier the intensity of .nfection. More
advanced cases are found in the endemic areas with more infected individuals.
10.       Relationship with age and sex.  Because of the differences in the
modes of agricultural production and life style in different areas, the
infection rates in different age groups vary from place to place. Generally
children aged 5 years or less seldom have prolonged contact with the infested
water and so the infection rate is low. Children at the age of five and above
like to swim and play in the infested water, so the infection rate of this age
group is much higher. Children aged 10 years or above have more chances of
getting infected through agricultural activities so the infection rate goes up
dramatically. As adults are mainly engaged in agricultural production, they
get infected more frequently. The peak of the infection curve usually occurs
before age 50. After this, the prevalence drops gradually.
11.       The infection rates of both sexes depend upon frequency of endemic
water contact. In some endemic areas, males are mainly involved in the
agricultural production and the infection rate is higher than that of females.
In other endemic areas, males are mainly engaged in industrial and commercial
activities and females have more frequent contact with the endemic water
through their daily activities. Consequently, females have a higher infection
rate than males. However, in the heavily endemic areas where the density of
infected snails is very high and the snails are extensively distributed, both
males and the females have frequent contact with the endemic water and the
infection rates of both sexes are equally high. Schistosomiasis has a very
strong association with occupation.



- 110 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 10
12.       Typically, infection rates of fishermen and boatmen are very high
as they live and work on water. In general, the infection rate of farmers is
high but varies with the modes of produc. :on and the crops planted. For
example, farmers engaged in rice production have a much higher infection rate
than farmers engaged in the dry-land crop production.
13.       Zoonotic Schistosomiases (in animals).  Schistosomiasis japonica is
a helminthzoonosis. It has been demonstrated that 39 species of mammals can
be infected. The infection rates of farm cattle in different areas are quite
different, depending on the density of infected snails, the ways of cattle
raising and the pasture sites. In the wet plains regions, the infection rate
of farm cattle is moderate as they are usually pastured on the paddy fields or
along the rivers or ditches where snails infest, some of which may be
infected. In the hilly and mountainous regions the farm cattle are mainly
herded on the slopes and ridges of the mountain while the snails are usually
distributed in the irrigation ditches and canals, so the infection rate of the
cattle is quite low. In contrast, in the marshlands and lake regions, farm
cattle are pastured throughout the year on the lake beaches where snails are
extensively distributed. As a result, the cattle are commonly infected, with
the infection rate in some areas as high as 90%. Hence the farm cattle are
the main source of infection in marshlands and lake regions. In general, no
differences of infection rate are found between the male and female cattle.
There are two routes of infection in cattle, through the skin and through the
mucous of the mouth.
14.       Besides cattle, schistosomiasis infections are also found in other
domestic animals like horses, pigs, dogs, sheep and cats, etc. The infection
rates of pigs depends on how they are raised. For example, the infection
rates of pigs herded on the lake beaches may be as high as 90% (but more
commonly is 10-20%). Furthermore, pigs habitually eat the feces and the
schistosome eggs can still be alive after passing through the digestive canal.
The infection rate of sheep can also be high; pigs and sheep have some
epidemiological importance in disease transmission but because the quantity of
stool produced is much smaller than cattle it is important only in limited
areas. In some areas the infection rates of domestic dogs may be as high as
70%. They also have a certain epidemiological importance in the transmission
of schistosomiasis, for the dogs run everywhere and excrete large quantities
of the eggs in their stools. The schistosome can not live inside a horse for
more than one year so it has little epidemiological importance.
15.       However, more than 30 species of wild animals have been detected to
be naturally infected with Schistosoma Japonicum. The infection rates
coincide with those of the local residents and domestic animals and is
associated with the infection rate and density of infected snails. He-..;ver,
snails and wild animals have also been found in areas where humans arl
domestic animals rarely go thus indicating that schistosomiasis is a natural
disease with focal transmission.
16.       Harmful effects.  Schistosomiasis is classified into chronic and
acute infections. Chronic schistosomiasis develops slowly. In the early
stage, it influences labor productivity to varying degrees. Acute infections



- 111 -                      Annex 4
Page 4 of 10
occur after heavy infection with cercariae and may develop into advanced
stages in a short time or directly lead to extreme morbidity or even death.
According to a survey in the 39 endemic counties of Jiangxi province, during
the 40 years before Liberation, 1362 villages had been ruined by the disease,
and more than 310,000 persons (including 26,000 or more families) died of the
disease.
17.       Over 40% of the infected persons show clinical symptoms and about
5% of the infected persons are at presently at advanced stages of the disease.
Schistosomiasis also lowers the fertility of women. It rauses death or lower
the capacity of large number of farm cattle.
C. Present ORerational Tools for Schistosomiasis Control
18.       Stool Examination.  There are mainly two methods of stool
examination for schistosomiasis used in ',hina: the hatching test and the
Kato-Katz technique.
(a) Stool Hatching Test. This technique is sensitive since a large
amount (20 to 30gm) of fecal material is used. Theoretically, if
there are a few viable eggs in the stool, the hatching test would
be positive. Fecal material is first concentrated using a nylon
tissue bag before it is put into a conical flask for hatching.
However, the technique is comparatively complicated and no
quantitative data in terms of intensity of infection can be
obtained.
(b)  Kato-kacz technique.  This is a quantitative stool examination
technique and is easy to practice. The specimens can be preserved
and brought back from the field to the laboratory. The data before
intervention can be compared with those after control, so it has
been widely used in epidemiological survey. As only a small amount
(40 mg to 50 mg) of fecal material is used, its sensitivity is not
very high. Although it can detect almost all subjects with a
moderate to heavy infection, in individuals with a low intensity of
infection, for example the eggs per gram of feces at or below 20,
false negative results can be expected.
19.       Immunodiagnosis.  Serological tests have their place in case
detection since their sensitivity is high. Since the 1970s, along with new
bio- technology being used in diagnosis, a number of ne- antigen- antibody
tests have been developed. In China, the main serological tests for
schistosomiasis are circum-oval precipitation test (COPT), indirect
haemaggretination test (IHA) and ELISA. The techniques using a known antigen
to detect antibody in the serum have their limitations since they cannot
differentiate current infection from past infection. Hence they have little
value in active case detection in thosa who have a history of treatment(s)
with schistosomiasis, as well as in follow-up study after chemotherapy. The
other shortcoming is that they cannot reflect intensity of the infection.



- 112 -                     Annex 4
Page 5 of 10
20.       Recently circulation antigen identification has been used for case
detection and preliminary results show that it is of promise, but it is only
at the investigation and development phase.
21.       Physical Examination.  Physical examination, mainly palpitation of
the liver and spleen can shed some light for diagnosis and estimation of
morbidity in a given community. However, since the signs (and symptoms) of
schistosomiasis are not pathognomonic, their application in detection of
infected cases is of limited value.
22.       Examination of Animals.  Infected domestic animals, especially
cattle and water buffaloes as a source of the infection play a very important
role in the transmission of schistosomiasis. Examination of these animals and
treatment of i.nfected cases should be a part of a comprehensive control
program. HoWever, the sensitivity of stool examination for schistosomiasis in
cattle and buffaloes is not satisfactory. The density of schistosomiasis eggs
in the feces is low, and hence a large amount (50-100 gm) of fecal material
and large instruments have to be used for hatching. Kato-Katz technique is
not sensitive for cattle stool examination. For this reason, cattle and
buffaloes pasturing in the scamp and lake regions and having a history of
frequent water contact should be treated regardless of their infection status
and without stool examination.
23.       Snail Survey and Elimination.  Snail survey to determine endemic
areas, density and cercaria infection rate is necessary for implementation of
a control program and follow-up of the control effect.
24.       Investigation of infection rate of the snail, eggs of the snail,
juvenile snails, snails hidden under the earth or in the water are all covered
in a snail survey. On the basis of snail surve-:, a plan of action for snail
control can be prepared.  The main approaches -or snail control are
mollusciciding and environme3ntal modification.
25.       Environmental modification is fundamental for elimination of
snails. However, its cost is usually high and hence it can only be used in
limited areas and in combination with agricultural production, water
conservancy, forestry and fishery investments.
26.       Other Control ADRroaches.  Safe water supply and sanitation and
individual protection are also important in the control work, since they can
block one link of the life cycle of the schistosome. However, they are not
easy to practice due to limited economic resources for the former two
approaches, and difficulties in technology and organization and management
for the latter one.
D.  Present ERidenic Situation of SchistosoMiasis.
27.       At present, about 1.5 million persons are estimated to be infected,
among them 55,000 advanced cases. The number of infected cattle is about
200,000 and snail habitats are estimated at 3.55 billion square meters. There
are 118 counties or cities still in heavily endemic areas. The major endemic



- 113 -                       Annex 4
Page 6 of 10
areas are mainly in the marshlands and lAke regions that include Hunan, Hubei,
Jiangxi, Anhui, Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces, and mountainous region of
Sichuan and Yunnan provinces. These eight provinces account for 99 percent of
the total number of infected persons and snail habitat.
28.       Recent eRidemiolozical trends.  In these eight provinces the
epidemiological situation has fluctuated in the 1980s and in some areas
schistosomiasis prevalence may be increasing. Recent data are shown below:
(a) According to the results of a national epidemiological survey
carried out in 1989, the average prevalence in the endemic areas
was: Hunan 14.7%; Hubei 12.9%; Yunnan 16.8%; Anhui 8.46% and
Sichuan 4.4%. In Jiangxi province the prevalence rates were higher
than 10% in 326 villages, the infection rate being as high as 80%
in a few of them. New infections were common. In some provinces
the number of newly infected persons accounted for 30-40% of the
total.
(b) Snail habitats have also increased. In recent years, the increase
per year in Sichuan and Jiangsu provinces was 20% and 36%
respectively. In Dongting lake area, snail habitat is increasing
at a rate of 40 million square meters per year.
(c) The number of acute infections has increased from 3,445 in 1980 and
to 6,205 in 1985. In 1989 there were 13,119 cases of acute
infection, the most since 1971. Of these, 7,965 cases were reported
from the three provinces in the lake :egion, i.e., Hunan, Hubei and
Jiangxi, an increase of 98% over 1988 figures.
(d) The number of advanced cases have also increased, reaching a total
of 55,000. In Hunan province alone, the number of advanced cases
were 9,689 in 1989, compared with 2,711 in 1979.
(e) The infection rate of cattle remains high. In 1989 it was 17.5% in
Hunan and 8.3% in Anhui. The infection rate in cows and oxen was
44.8% in Sichuan. According to a report from the Department of
Veterinary Medicine in Hubei Province, the cattle infection rate
was 2.6% in 1983 compared to 4.9% in 1989.
(f) Lastly, the egg positive rate of stool examinations shows a
steadily increasing trend for both the lake region provinces and
other endemic areas.



- 114 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 10
Changes in the egg-positive rate of stool examination
Year
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
TMPR* of all
endemic areas        2.42  2.52  2.83  2.78  3.12  3.58  3.09  3.22  3.44
TMPR* of Lake         --    --   3.60  3.88  3.97  4.39  4.04  5.54  4.97
Provinces
*TMPR - The Mean egg-positive rate of stool examination
29.       The epidemiological situation in the endemic areas to be covered
under the project may be steadily worsening. In these areas, the egg-positive
rate of stool examination increased from 30/1,000 in 1980 to 67/1,000 in 1989.
In 1989, the number of acute infections were more than 13,100 cases, the
highest in a decade. The areas of snail habitat increased from 3.1 billion
square meters in 1983 to 3.5 billion square meters in 1989. Thus, it appears
that the endemicity of schistosomiasis is increasing again. If prevention and
control of the disease are not strengthened, the disease will again become a
major public health problem with severe economic consequence for central
China.
30.       General information on the schistosomiasis program resources and on
the eight provinces included in the project is tabulated below:
Annex Table 4.1
Schistosomiasis Stations in the Main Endemic Provinces
Province                    Prefectural                 County
Schisto Stations         Schisto Stations
Hunan                        3                             35
Hubei                        7                             34
Jiangxi                      2                             32
Anhui                        9                             36
Jiangsu                      9                              4
Sichuan                      1                             34
Yunnan                       1                             14
Zhejiang                     1                              7
Total                       33                            196



- 115 -
Annex 4
Page 8 of 10
Annex Table 4.2
Distribution of Schistosomiasis Control Staff by Administrative Level
1989
Level     No. Institutions        Total Staff         Professionals
National             1                 330                  90
Pro-rincial         13                1069                 567
Prefectural         25                1626                1220
County             222               10336                7915
Township           354                5111                4377
Total              615               18472               14169
Annex Table 4.3
Distribution of Schistosomiasis Control Staff by Province and Grade level
1989
Province        Total     Senior   Middle   Junior   Other
Hunan            2993        63       617      1984      329
Hubel            4772        45       587      3041    1099
Jiangxi          1900        30       342       995      533
Anhui            2731       126       812      1424      369
Jiangsu          1992        40       230      1528      194
Sichuan          1772        24       238      1060     440
Yunnan            398         6        47       279       66
Zhejiang          851        20        43       705       83
Total           17409       354      2916    11016    3113



- 116 -
Annex 4
Page 9 of 10
Annex Table 4.4
P2pulation and Agriculture in the Endemic Provinces
1989       Population        Area (in    Farm land (in    % of farm land
(in millions)   1000 km2)    million mu)    graitn production)
Hubei       47.8               180              60                 80
Hunan       84.0               210             60                  80
Jiangxi    33.2                160             42                  80
Anhui       49.7               130              80                 90
Jiangsu    60.5                100              70                 70
Sichuan    99.7                560            110                  80
Yunnan      32.6               380             340                 90
Zhejiang   41.7                 80             65                  75
Total     449.0               1720            521                  80
* 1 Chinese mu equals 667 square meters
Annex Table 4.5
Schistosomiasis Control Expeditures in Proiect Provinces
in 1980 - 1990
(Y million, current prices)
198'0      1985        1989          1990
Hubei                                 8.0         8.0         8.0         12.0
Hunan                                 5.3         5.3         5.7          9.8
Jiangxi                               5.9         5.9         8.9          8.9
Anhui                                 4.0         4.0         4.0          6.0
Jiangsu                               6.5         6.5         6.5          7.5
Sichuan                               5.0         5.0        5.0           5.0
Yunnan                                2.0         2.0         2.0          2.0
Zhejiang                              2.0         2.0         2.0          2.0
TOTAL                           38.7        38.7        42.1         53.2
in 1980 constant prices             38.7        32.4        26.4         32.0*
* Approximate



- 117 -                      Annex 4
Page 10 of 10
CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING SUCCESS OF CONTROL EFFORTS
Since 1985, the following criteria have been used for declaring that
schistosomiasis has been "eradicated" or is "under effective control" in an
area (township, county, province, et ):
a.   Criteria for Eradication
* no new cases of S. ja2onicum infection either in man or in
animals discovered for three successive years;
* the prevalence rate in a community examined by the stool hatching
technique, performed on three consecutive specimens for each
person tested, should be less than 0.2% in the population, with a
coverage of at least 95%;
* all the patients without contraindications for medical treatment
should be treated and all the infected domestic animals be cured
or disposed of; and
*  no oncomelania snails should be found after careful surveys in
spring and autumn for at least one year.
b.   Criteria for Effective Control
* 90% of S. jaDonicum infected individuals should be cured and 90%
of the infected domestic animals should be cured or disposed of,
while most of the advanced and complicated cases without
contraindications for treatment should not be excreting eggs;
_ living oncomelania snail colonies should not be found in 98% of
the former infected areas while residual snail colonies should be
present only in spotted distribution; and
* data concerning treatment drugs and courses, stool examination
records before and after treatment, and maps showing the
distribution of the snails before and after the control program
in each township should be available.



- 118 -                      Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
fE CTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Schistosomiasis Control Organizations,
Planning and Implementation in China
Organizational Structure and Responsibilities.
1.        The schistosomiasis control organizations in China rest on three
somewhat independent but related "legs" -- the political, administrative and
technical structures (see chart below). These three parallel but mutually
supportive lines of authority and responsibility extend from the national to
township levels, and each serves a distinct but complimentary function. The
inter-sectoral leading groups, report to the political chain of command and
provide policy direction; the health bureau staff report to the MOPH and
oversee implementation; and the research institutes, anti-schistosomiasis
stations, and anti-epidemic stations at various levels, provide technical
support for disease surveillance, prevention and control.
2.        Recognizing the importance of controlling schistosomiasis, the
government established the National Leading Group for Schistosomiasis Control
in 1956 with the Minister of Public Health as the Group's deputy leader. The
Group's leader was a member of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee
of the Chinese Communist Party. The Minister (or sometimes a deputy minister)
took care of the national control program through both the vertical line of
schistosomiasis control and the provincial public health bureaus under the
MOPH. After the dis-establishment of the National Leading Group and its
office in 1986, the Bureau of Prevention and Treatment of Endemic Diseases,
under the direct leadership of MOPH, has been responsible for schistosomiasis
control. at the national level. (The various leading groups continue to
function at the provincial, prefectural and country levels.) In 1987, to
strengthen national level technical guidance, the Expert Advisory Committee
for Schistosomiasis Control was established to advise the Bureau.
3.        The Bureau has four administrative departments or sections.  They
are for: (a) endemic diseases (including plague and brucellosis); (b) endemic
diseases (goiter and cretinism, Keshan disease, filariasis and Kashin-Beck
disease); (c) schistosomiasis; and (d) other (general) activities. Thus,
there is a separate division for schistosomiasis control while the remaining
diseases are grouped together. The main responsibilities of the Bureau and
its constituent departments and divisions are to:
*    establish policies, regulations, schemes and criteria for
prevention and treatment of the diseases covered;
*    direct the professional work of institutions specializing in the
diseases;
*    collect and analyze information about the epidemic situation of the
diseases;
*    provide health education to the public;



- 119 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
*    manage the training of professional personnel in collaboration with
related departments/bureaus;Chart here of Organization of Schisto
Control
*    administer research work on the diseases in conjunction with
related departments/bureaus, and communicate research findings
internationally; and
*    undertake other miscellaneous activities associated with prevention
and treatment of the diseases covered.
4.        At the national level, the main scientific work for control of
endemic diseases, including schistosomiasis, is done in three national
research centers directly under the leadership of the central Bureau.
5.        At the provincial level, the professional work of disease
prevention and control is undertaken in roughly 60 provincial research
centers, institutcs and stations under the leadership of the local health
department. There are six specialized provincial institutes for
schistosomiasis; but anti-schistosomiasis work is also undertaken in
specialized departments and sections of provincial institutes of parasitic
diseases and of anti-epidemic or sanitation stations. The main responsibility
of these research institutes is to: help prevent and treat schistosomiasis;
direct lower level professional units in research practice and technique; draw
up technical regulations; train professional personnel; appraise scientific
achievement; and set up and collaborate in a nat'onwide scientific network.
6.        In the majority of provinces and autonomous regions, the local
government has a leading group for prevention and treatment of endemic
diseases. A corresponding office for endemic diseases or schistosomiasis,
within the local health department, deals with routine administrative matters.
Such an organizational arrangement exists in almost every administrative
division and county. The areas endemic in schistosomiasis have full-time
cadres responsible for administrative matters pertaining to that disease.
7.        For example, at the county level in Jiangxi Province, each of the
35 counties heavily endemic in schistosomiasis has an anti-schistosomiasis
station. The largest of these, in the Poyang Lake area, has 280 workers for
schistosomiasis. The average anti-schistosomiasis station has about 100
specialized staff--compared with about 30 multi-purpose workers (excluding
village health workers) in an average anti-epidemic station. In addition,
there are more than 30 specialized anti-schistosomiasis hospitals at the
county level. At the next lower (township, previously commune) level, each
heavily endemic township has an anti-schistosomiasis team operating out of the
local anti-epidemic or sanitation station.
B. Program Planning and Implementation.
8.        After the general policy has been set at the national level,
detailed operational planning and implementation is done at the provincial,
prefectural, county and township levels by the various institutes and



- 120 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
stations. Specialized staff engaged primarily in schistosomiasis control are
responsible for all but strictly administrative aspects of the program. The
institutions above the prefectural level undertake the scientific research and
training, and provide the technical guidance, while the institutions at and
below the prefectural level undertake the control activities.
9.        New technologies are introduced in collaboration with various
national and provincial institutes. The institutes' teams help local health
workers adapt and apply these new technologies to field conditions. To
facilitate this field work, detailed maps are prepared, both for infected
humans and snails, and the distribution of infection is tracked over time and
geographical areas. Institute staff also help anti-epidemic stations prepare
schistosomiasis control projects, conduct investigations, and provide advice
to affected communities.
10.       The planning horizon at the provincial and prefectural or city
levels is up to 5 years, with progressively more detailed planning being done
for the immediate future and for specific field activities. For example, the
Jiangxi Provincial Institute and the Jiujiang city Anti-Schistosomiasis
Institute have prepared work plans for three time periods (1989, 1990, and
1989-93) so that control program activities could be implemented and monitored
systematically.
11.       Included in these plans are specific objectives and targets for
each of three areas: personnel training and coaching; technical assistance
and consulting services; and investigation of endemic areas. In the next five
years, the Provincial Institute plans to: conduct several in-service training
courses of one month duration on different technical topics; supply
intradermal test antigens for detecting infection; assist county level staff
in reducing snail infection in endemic areas; and undertake a number of
operational research activities jointly with the staff of various
anti-schistosomiasis and anti-epidemic stations.
12.       In all these activities, although the work is done cooperatively
with staff of various public health bureaus, anti-epidemic stations and
sanitation stations, the main responsibility for planning and implementing the
control program rests with staff and institutions specialized in
schistosomiasis prevention and control--such as the anti-schistosomiasis
stations.
13.       The success of China's schistosomiasis control program is
ultimately based on what is achieved in scores of villages and townships by
hundreds of thousands of field workers, supervisors, and township leaders.
Although field-level performance varies by province and county, as should be
expected, in general the system has functioned very well. Program staff seem
to have managed, in a coherent fashion, the many factors involved--political,
organizational, technological, managerial, and community-related. Even though
recent financial constraints and policy changes have begun to weaken field
activities, the basic operational capability built during the 1960s and 1970s
remains in place.



- 121 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Policies to Strengthen and Rationalize
Schistosomiasis Control Services
General Policies
SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONTROL PROGRAM
I. General Objectives
China's schistosomiasis control program in eight provinces (Hubei,
Hunan, Anhui, Jiangxi, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Yunnan and Sichuan) has the
objectives of reducing and controlling morbidity due to schistosome infection.
The control program is an important part of China's 8th Five year Plan for
Schistosomiasis Control.  The general objectives are to control morbidity due
to schistosomiasis and to interrupt, in some areas, its transmission. The
specific objectives are:
(a)  to decrease the prevalence of infection in the population by 40%;
(b)  to decrease the prevalence of infection in cattle and buffalo by
40%; and,
(c)  to decrease the natural infection rate and the density of infected
snails by 50-60%.
II. ARproach
The technical strategies to achieve the objectives have been
developed by the Endemic Disease Control bureau of the Ministry of Public
Health, with the assistance of the national Schistosomiasis Expert Advisory
Committee. The technical strategies vary by the endemicity level of an area.
Three endemicity levels, based on the infection rate of the residents in
villages, have been defined; different technical measures are to be taken in
each. Specific program activities undertaken in each area must be done in
accordance with the technical strategies for the specific endemicity level of
the area.
The primary method for morbidity control shall be chemotherapy, and
for snail control, mollusciciding. To reduce environmental pollution, the
schistosomiasis program will only use niclosamide, an environmentally
acceptable molluscicide. If other molluscicides should be approved by the
World Health Organization for widespread use, consideration will be given to
permitting their use in the national schistosomiasis control program. Use of
environmental modification to control snails will be based on low-cost
traditional techniques of filling lowland, building simple low dams and
sluices to contain snail movement and control water level, plowing and
compacting soil to kill snails, and small infrastructure improvements to limit
contact of the population with snail infested water. Larger construction



- 122 -                      Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
works to build new irrigation networks, develop new agricultural or fishery
areas may be undertaken by other departments of government, partly in support
of the schistosomiasis control program. The schistosomiasis control aspects
of such construction projects should be taken into account by each department
and closely coordinated with the Office for Schistosomiasis (Endemic Disease
Control) in each province.
III. Technical Strateev
The specific objectives of the technical strategy are to:
(a) reduce morbidity in areas of high endemicity (i.e., >15%
prevalence);
(b)  control morbidity in areas of medium endemicity (i.e., areas with
prevalence >3% and <15%); and,
(c) control morbidity, and transmission (where appropriate), in areas
of low endemicity (i.e. areas with prevalence <3%).
The endemic areas in the eight provinces participating in the
program have been classified according to prevalence rates in humans (1989
national Schistosomiasis Survey) in various administrative villages (each of
which is composed of several natural villages and with a population of several
thousands). The technical strategies followed in each of the three endemic
areas will be as follows.
A. Areas of Hiah Endemicity
The objective is to reduce morbidity. Methods to be used are: i)
mass chemotheraxy of the human population (with no additional individual
diagnostic screening); ii) limited snail control by mollusciciding with
niclosamide, supported by environmental modification where appropriate.
Chemotherapv for humans shall be done as follows:
(a)  in the first three years of the program, persons between the ages
of 6 and 60 years (approximately 80 % of the total population) will
be provided with treatment, with expected coverage of about 90%.
In groups at high risk of infection due to frequent contact with
infested water (e.g. fishermen and their families and other boat
people) will be offered treatment twice a year. In lake and river
areas these groups represent about 10% of population; and,
(b)  in the fourth and fifth year of the program, treatment will depend
on results of systematic statistical sampling which will take place
by the end of third year. Where prevalence remains 15% or greater
all persons will be treated (with no individual screening); where



- 123 -                      Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
prevalence is decreased to below 15%, the areas will be treated as
areas of medium endemicity.
_hemotherapy for cattle and water bti.falo: All these animals in
the areas of high endemicity will be treated annually.
Snail control:  Forty percent (approximately) of areas with a high
transmission potential will be surveyed annually in Spring or Autumn. Areas
with more than 0.005 infected snails per Chinese square foot will be treated
with niclosamide. The area to be treated is expected to be approximately 75%
of the area surveyed. Limited environmental modification will be carried out,
where appropriate.
B. Areas of Medium Endemicity.
The objective is to control morbidity. The methods to be used
shall be as follows:
Chemotherapy for humans. Diagnostic screening of persons between 6
and 60 years of age (approximately 80% of the tota_. population), using Kato-
Katz technique (2 slides for each specimen), will be carried out. In Hunan
and Hubei provinces 35% of this population will be examined every year. In
other provinces, 25% of this population will be examined every year.
Selective population chemotherapy will be provided to those with schistosome
eggs in their stool. Estimated population to be treated is 10% of the persons
screened. Qualitative diagnosis will be made in the field prior to treatment
but slides will be retained for quantitative data and quality control on a
sampling basis. In these areas, persons at high risk due to frequent water
contact (fishermen and their family members and other boat people, about 10%
of the population in areas of medium endemicity) will be provided treatment
twice a year.
Chemotherapy for cattle and water buffalo: In Hunan and Hubei
provinces, the 35% of cattle and water buffalo, and 25% of such animals in
other provinces, will be treated once a year.
Snail Control: In the first and fifth year of the program, all
areas with a high transmission potential around villages will be sample-
surveyed and those with infected snails (on crushing) will be molluscicided
(expected to be approximately half the area surveyed). In the second, third
and fourth year of the program, half the high transmission areas will be
sample-surveyed and it is expected that about half of the area surveyed will
be molluscicided (or, in limited areas, appropriate environmental modification
will be undertaken).
C. Areas of low endemicity.
The objective is to control morbidity, and to eliminate
transmission where appropriate. Methods to be used shall be as follows:



- 124 -                       Anrex 6
Page 4 or 4
ChemotheraRy for humans: In each participating province, all 7-14
year old children shall be examined every other year (i.e., in year 1,3 and 5)
by one of the following serological tests - COPT, IHA or ELISA. The children
of these ages account for about 14% of the population in the area of low
..schistosomiasis endemicity. Those with a positive reaction will be provided
treatment (approximately 3% of the children screened).
In addition, serological tests and treatment will be provided to
the following groups - a) persons at high risk due to frequent contact with
infested water, b) suspected schistosomiasis patients at hospitals, clinics,
etc., and c) family members, neighbors or work associates of persons found
infected (expected to be approximately 10% of the population in areas with low
endemicity).
Chemotherapy for cattle and water buffalo: Animals imported from
other provinces and those under 2 years of age and pastured in snail habitat
will be examined and treated if infected (approximately 15% of cattle and
buffalo are expected to be examined and 5% to be treated in the low endemicity
areas).
Snail Control: Fifty percent of snail habitat will be sample
surveyed annually. Infected areas will be treated with molluscicide or by
appropriate limited environmental change (area potentially involved for
mollusciciding is approximately 20% of the total area surveyed).
D. ChemotheraRy treatment regimens.
Humans shall be treated with the drug formulation vraziguantel, in
200 milligram tablets. The dose for population-based chemotherapy shall be
administered as a single dose of 40 mg/kg bodyweight, taken after a meal.
Treatment should be postponed for pregnant women, and persons with fever,
history of epilepsy, or other serious illness. Acute cases are to be treated
in hospital with a dose of 120 mg/kg body weight administered over 4-6 days.
Cattle and buffalo shall be treated with a veterinary preparation
of praziquantel in powder form. The dosage for cattle should be 30 mg/kg body
weight, and for water buffalo, 25 mg/kg of body weight.
E. Mollusciciding regimen.
The molluscicide treatment regimen shall consist of Niclosamide
(commercial product, containing 50% niclosamide) applied once a year.
Approximately 70% of this will be treated by spraying with a dose of 2.0
grams per square meter. The rest shall be treated by immersion at a
concentration of 2 ppm (parts per millions), approximately 3.0 grams per
square meter water surface.



- 125 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Schistosomiasis Surveillance System
1.        Surveillance of the epidemiological changes and trends of
schistosomiasis in the project areas during the implementation of the
technical strategy of the project will provide the basis for adjustment and
improvement of control strategies at the administrative village level.
2.        Surveillance work will be organized and coordinated by the BEDC and
the endemic diseases offices at different levels. The Institute of Parasitic
Disease of The Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine and the provincial
institutes of schistosomiasis will be responsible for planning, technical
guidance and data analysis. Surveillance field work will be undertaken by the
provincial disease surveillance teams.
3.        Indices and techniaues for surveillance.  For surveillance of the
disease in humans the following indices will be maintained: (a) the infection
(prevalence) and intensity of infection; (b) the incidence of acute and
advanced stage schistosomiasis; and (c) in migrant population, infection data.
4.        For surveillance of cattle - the infection (prevalence) rate, and
the intensity of infection will be used. For snails - the intensity of, and
infection rate in, snail populations will be tracked.
5.        Techniques for surveillance will be as follows:  for humans stool
examination the quantitative Kato-Katz concentration technique will be used;
for cattle the quantitative hatching test. The standard methods from the MOPH
Handbook of Schistosomiasis Control will be followed for snail survey
techniques and human physical examination. Quality control for stool
examination will be made by surveillance teams reexamining between 5% to 10%
of randomly selected positive and negative Kato-Katz slides. 95% agreement
will be maintained. Data on acute and advanced stage schistosomiasis will be
collected from the standard case report system.>/  For snail studies -
areas will be seeded with invisibly-marked dead snails; the rate of recovery
by snail survey teams will be monitored to assess their efficiency.
6.        Surveillance Methods.  Sampling will be performed as follows:
(a)  Humans.  Based on results of the 1989 National Schistosomiasis
Survey, three levels of endemicity were defined for the population
6 to 60 years of age - prevalence >15%, 3%-15% and <3% - which
provided the basis for the control strategy. The survey provides
baseline information for surveillance. Based on the total number
of villages in the 3 endemic areas 3%, 1% and 1% of the
administrative villages in the high, medium and low endemic areas
respectively will be randomly selected annually for surveillance.
2&1  Community based morbidity studies also will be part of operational
research.



- 126 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of I
In areas of high and medium endemicity, stools from 500 persons
aged 3-60 from selected villages will be examined as a cluster
sample (Data from 3-5 years old will be analyzed separately for
surveillance of transmission. See below).
In areas of low endemicity, 7-14 year old children will be
surveyed, with school classes serving as sample clusters. 250
children from each village will be examined by serology - either
COPT, IHA or ELISA.
With variations depending on the population of the villages
selected, not less than 33% of the migrant population will be
screened.
(b) Cattle and Buffalo. In the villages selected for human
surveillance, 50 and 100 animals will be randomly selected from the
lake and mountain regions respectively.
(c) Snail habitats. Snail densities and snail infection rates will be
assessed in the different endemic areas as follows:
High endemicity areas - from each of surveillance villages not less
than 500 frames (each of one Chinese square foot) will be surveyed
and not less than 5,000 snails examined.
Medium endemicity areas - not less than 300 frames will be surveyed
and not less then 5,000 snails will be examined from sites of high
transmission potential around the surveillance villages.
Low endemicity areas - surveys will be made only around known or
potential snail habitats; not less than 200 frames will be
surveyed. If the density of snails is low and less than 5,000
snails are collected all will be examined.
(d)  School children.  At the administrative village level in the areas
of high and medium endemicity, stools of children aged 10-12 years
will be randomly sampled in the 3rd the 5th year of the program and
examined qualitatively by the Kato-katz technique. (Prevalence for
the whole population will be calculated by an appropriate factor
based on results of the 1989 National Survey prevalence). Despite
the small sample size, the approach has the advantage that:
-    the age group has a high prevalence and is thus  sensitive to
parasitological study;
-    the cooperation of children is good and easily  obtained;
-    the findings will reflect the village endemicity better than
data from mobile adults; and,



- 127 -                     Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
-    results will provide a cross check on those from the national
and provincial surveillance strategy.
7.        Surveillance of transmission.  Data from the above surveillance of
disease activities will indicate the direct effect of chemotherapy (mass or
selective) on the prevalence and intensity of infection in hutnans which,
indirectly, affects morbidity. The secondary effect of chemotherapy, reduced
transmission, will be assessed from the untreated 3-5 year age group (see
para. 6 (a) above). In year 1 of the program, the group will have a low
prevalence and intensity of infection; as chemotherapy affects transmission
these parameters of infection should gradually fall. If chemotherapy stops
transmission in the area, by year 5 of the program prevalence among 3-5 year
old children will be zero.



- 128 -                      Annex 8
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Operational Research for Control of Schistosomiasis
1.        While the basic strategy of control has been defined for areas of
high, medium, and low endemicity, problems will inevitably arise in
implementation and research will be required to formulate appropriate changes
and improvements to control techniques in different epidemiological
situations. Some problems will be of relevance mainly to individual
provinces, others will be of wider importance and relevant at the national
level. Control in areas of low endemicity will present additional research
needs that will be of prime importance in 5-10 years time when most of China's
schistosomiasis will be in areas of low endemicity and progressing towards as
the elimination stage of the infection. The world has little experience with
cost-effective management of control strategies in these low endemicity areas
and China's experience is likely to have broad international relevance.
2.        The main priority topics for research during the project are to be
the following:
(a) The diagnostic test/s most suitable for detecting a resurgence of
transmission when prevalence is apparently zero. While the COPT,
IHA and ELISA tests show similar specificity sensitivity in
established (chronic infections) their use in early, light and
possibly single-sex infections requires clarification.
(b) While children are generally regarded as an ideal group for
surveillance purposes, after effective control in areas where
infection may be an occupational hazard, other age groups (25 to
40) may be better. The optimal group may vary with the prevailing
epidemiological and socio-economic circumstances. Similarly,
attention should be given to appropriate diagnostic techniques and
indicator age groups in other endemic areas as prevalence falls.
(c) Mollusciciding supplements chemotherapy. Niclosamide is more
costly than the formerly used chemical and research is needed to
ensure the most cost effective method of application is used.
Power and hanc sprayers should be compared in relation to the
distribution of chemical at the desired dose and different nozzles
on sprayers should be investigated.
(d) Slow-release formulations of niclosamide require evaluation and its
persistence on dried mud should be evaluated. Promising new
molluscicides need further evaluation and testing for toxicity.
(e) The present susceptibility of Oncomelania to niclosamide should be
established as a base line in case there are signs of resistance in
the future. Where necessary, studies on the population dynamics of
QOncolania snails should be made and methods to prevent their
dispersion should be continued .



- 129 -
*                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annex 8
Page 2 of 4
(f) Ultrasound studies are becoming of increasing importance in the
field of schistosomiasis.  While gross pathological changes in the
liver and spleen size can be readily obtained, the interpretation
of early changes is more difficult and changes at all stage of the
disease have only recerntly been standardized. Research into
detection and treatment of early changes may be valuable for
prevention of acute and chronic cases.
(g) After extensive training in the new standardized control methods,
community-based studies should be made to establish the "norm" for
infections, in different age and sex groups in different
epidemiological areas, including specifically early signs of liver
involvement, post-treatment changes and those associated with
control of transmission.
(h) Community-based morbidity studies are needed in different
epidemiological areas to clarify the relationship between
prevalence (and intensity) of infection and symptoms and signs of
disease.
(i) The re-infection rate by age, sex and extent of water contact after
chemotherapy has not been fully investigated. Circumstantial
evidence suggests it may be different from that of the African
schistosome where partial immunity to re-infection has been
demonstrated. The high incidence of acute schistosomiasis as an
occupational hazard in chronically infected adults, is further
evidence of a low level of immunity. A better un'.erstanding of the
immunopathological process is necessary before contemplating a
vaccine against the infection. Community-based studies would be a
valuable contribution to th's topic.
(j) Clinical studies to improve patient care of acute and advanced
disease are necessary and, in view of the possibility of resistance
to praziquantel developing with long term use, the sensitivity of
the parasite to the drug should be established for worms from
different areas of China.
3.        Operational research on topics specific to project implementation
will also be required.  The main topics are as follows:
(a) Monitoring of the inputs to the three main components of the
control strategy - chemotherapy, snail contro; and health education
is essential to ensure each makes its maximum concribution to the
project.
(b) Chemothera_y. This is the basis of the entire strategy of
morbidity control.  The aim is to treat as many persons as possible
depending on the appropriate regime of treatment (i.e. mass- or
selective-population chemotherapy). Village-level records must
therefore be designed to provide the following information:



- 130 -                      Annex 8
Page 3 of 4
(i)  identity of uncooperative individuals (refusing stools  for
examination, or treatment), and those not treated (with
reason);
(ii) response of different age, sex (and possibly occupation) groups
to the chemotherapy program. These data should be used to
target health education activities to relevant individuals or
groups;
(iii)  The number of villages which should be examined or treated in a
particular time span and the actual coverage attained.
(Adjustment of staff numbers may be required to obtain better
coverage);
For cattle, similar data to the above is required in respect of
co-operation of the farmers.
(c) Snail control. The size of snail habitats to be sample-surveyed
and molluscicided in different endemic areas are indicated in the
control strategy. From field records it will be important to study
the actual coverage achieved and reasons if coverage falls short.
(d)  Health education   The short term aims of the health education
component will vary in the different areas of endemicity. Targets
should be set at the beginning of each year and a record kept of
all activities. Where targets all not met, the reasons should be
sought and corrective action taken.
(e) Ongoing Monitoring. While the surveillance program of the control
project will be organized and coordinated by the endemic diseases
bureau, field survey teams should be required to analyze records of
stool surveys to get early warning of localized areas where control
is not as good as expected. Localized areas of poor control may
not be apparent when results from a number of villages are
combined; results from small local units of populations are
therefore important. Results should be analyzed by sex and age
group and where appropriate, by occupation. Survey teams should be
encouraged to make their own analyses of prevalence and intensity
of infection and to follow year-by-year changes.
(f)  Ouality control.  Particularly in areas of medium endemicity where
stools are to be examined prior to treatment (selective population
chemotherapy), quality control of microscopy examinations is
essential. When prevalence is low, few positive stools will be
found and the work is so boring that microscopists become careless
and miss eggs. A quality control system must therefore be
established for speedily correcting misdiagnoses. In addition
Kato-Katz preparations can be further checked for quantitative
study at the Provincial or Institute level. The performance of
individual microscopists should be monitored. A suitable quality
control system should also be established for different serological



- 131 -                     Annex 8
Page 4 of 4
tests - the possibility or introducing known positives (of varying
titre) and known negatives into batches from the field should be
considered.



- 132 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Other Infectious Diseases
1.        Many other disease control programs are the responsibility of the
Department Epidemic Prevention, MOPH. Several of these diseases represent
major current or potential public health problems. Operations research on
improved control strategies and improved national level disease surveillance
are a high priority. The project will thus include sub-components for the
following.
2.   Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs).  After being virtually eliminated
in the 1950s, STDs have been increasing rapidly during the 1980s. About
100,000 cases of gonorrhea and syphilis were reported nationwide in i989 and
1990. MOPH control efforts are complicated by the need to re-establish
surveillance and clinical services that were dismantled in the 1960s. Greatly
strengthened STD services are needed to provide treatment to current patients,
prevent complications, and attempt to decrease transmission. The presence of
other STDs greatly enhances sexual transmission of the AIDS virus, making STD
prevention an important element of the AIDS control program.
3.        Control of STDs is the responsibility of the Division of Chronic
Infectious Disease, Department of Epidemic Prevention, MOPH. The associated
technical agency, re-established in 1986, is the National Center for STD
Control and Research (Nanjing) of the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine.
Provincial activities are the responsibility of the provincial health bureau,
with technical assistance of the provincial skin disease institute. In some
provinces, and at lower levels, the anti-epidemic station contains the STD
control service. Hospitals and clinics may also establish clinical STD
services. Syphilis and gonorrhea have been made nationally reportable
diseases since 1988. Sixteen urban areas have done special surveillance and
control work on STDs since 1986.
4.        STD control programs require strengthening in several areas:
(a)  due to limited experience in China, fellowships will be provided to
study STD program management in other countries. This will be
followed by a national workshop to disseminate new ideas;
(b)  although disease surveillance networks are in place, they will be
strengthened by limited additional hardware, and foreign technical
assistance in epidemiology and statistics;
(c)  health education for STDs is vitally important for control
programs, but must deal with sensitive topics and hard to reach
target audiences. Operations research into effective health
education methods will be supported by foreign technical
assistance, support for materials development, testing and
evaluation in several experimental sites, and a national workshop
to disseminate results;



- 133 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 4
(d) local training will be supported for provincial workers in modern
diagnosis and treatment for STDs. Development and production of
needed, improved training materials for all levels will be
supported. Fellowships will be provided for training of national
level personnel in newly developed laboratory techniques,
especially for non-traditional STDs.
5.        The sub-component will be the responsibility of the Division of
Chronic Infectious Disease and will be executed by the National center for STD
Control and Research. Duration of the sub-component will be four years (1992-
1995).
6.        As part of these activities, operational research will also be
included on Human Immunodeficiencv Virus (HIV). Current levels of HIV
infection in the Chinese population are known to be very low, except in a high
risk group of drug users in Yunnan province. However, the epidemiologic
situation needs to be tracked closely to determine the extent and means of
spread of this infection so that appropriate control measures can be targeted
quickly to groups at risk.
7.        In collaboration with the World Health Organization, China has
developed a standard series of surveillance measures for HIV in low incidence
provinces. Groups to be screened vary by province but may include sexually
transmitted disease patients, drug users, blood donors, and prostitutes. One
to three areas (usually cities) are surveyed for each risk group in each
province, amounting to about 3500 persons per province per year. Screens are
done using a relatively inexpensive agglutination test. Suspect positive are
rechecked at the provincial level by ELISA and then at national level with
higher level tests.
8.        The HIV surveillance system is being established in fourteen
provinces of China. This project will support surveillance activities in four
additional provinces (Gansu, Sichuan, Xinjiang, Hunan). Support will be for
needed equipment, supplies, training, supervision, health education, and field
work. Because several important risk groups are difficult to identify,
contact and screen, extra allowances are made for field work.
9.        The project will be the responsibility of the Division of Acute
Infectious Disease and will be executed by the Chinese Academy of Preventive
Medicine. Duration will be three years (1992-1994)
10.       Hepatitis Epidemiology.  The various forms of viral hepatitis are
an important public health problem in China. These are broadly divided into
hepatitis which is spread by poor sanitation (hepatitis A and E), and those
spread primarily through blood transfusions, sexual contact, or perinatally
(hepatitis B, C, D). Hepatitis A and E are an important source of mass
outbreaks. Paradoxically, as sanitation improves, and early immunity is not
acquired, the risk of outbreaks increases. Hepatitis B, C, and D besides
producing acute hepatitis, are associated with cirrhosis, liver cancer and
other hepatic disease.



- 134 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 4
11.       Serologic tests for hepatitis A and B have existed for many years,
but have never been applied to a fully representative sample of the Chinese
population, and the tests used in previous surveys have recently been
improved. Tests for hepatitis C and E have only appeared in the last few
years. The exact role of these new viruses in post-transfusion hepatitis,
liver cancer and disease outbreaks has not been reported systematically from
populations at risk in China.
12.       The project will support serologic surveys to clarify the
epidemiologic situation of viral hepatitis in China, providing a basis for
improved control policies. These include policies towards hepatitis B
immunization, screening of blood for transfusion, and protection of medical
personnel. Additional accivities include the development of locally produced
reagents for hepatitis testing, especially for hepatitis C and E.
13.       The general survey will cover a representative sample of 50,000
individuals drawn from 145 disease surveillance points maintained by the
Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine. A total of about 20,000 additional
individuals will be selected from specific groups of interest, including
clinical hepatitis patients, blood donors, medical staff, primary liver cancer
patients, drug abusers, and post-transfusion hepatitis patients. Tests to be
conducted include HAV-IgG, HBsAg, HBeAg, anti-HBs, anti-HBc, HCV, and HEV.
Only tests appropriate to each group selected will be carried out.
14.       The sub-component will support the cost of the diagnostic reagents,
laboratory equipment, computers for analysis, training of provincial and other
staff in survey and laboratory methods, foreign technical assistance and
training, and project meetings.
15.       The sub-component will be the responsibility of the Division of
Acute Infectious Disease and will be executed by the Chinese Academy of
Preventive Medicine. Duration will be four years (1992-1995), including time
needed to develop and test locally produced laboratory reagents.
16.       Hepatitis B Immunization.  Chronic hepatitis B infections (carrier
state) are very common in China, affecting about 10-15% of the population.
Worldwide, it is estimated that about 25% of carriers will eventually die from
cirrhosis or hepatic carcinoma. In China, hepatic carcinoma is the third most
common cause of cancer mortality in China, and since it affects young adults,
the leading cause of years of life lost before age 65 due to cancer. Most
hepatitis B carriers become infected either at the time of birth or in early
childhood. Immunization of all infants with Hepatitis B vaccine, starting at
birth, prevents up to 95% of these infections.
17.       Due to decreased price and increased local production of hepatitis
vaccine, the MOPH will extending routine immunization to all urban areas of
China in 1992, where the cost can be covered by medical insurance. In rural
areas the potential success of a hepatitis B program is limited by several
factors. The first dose of vaccine needs to be given as soon after birth as
possible, which is difficult for home, and even township level deliveries.



- 135 -
Annex 9
Page 4 of 4
Vaccine dosages for newborns differ depending on the carrier status of the
mother, which is difficult to test at the township level. Finally, the
ability and willingness of the rural population to pay for this immunization
is unknown.
18.       The project will support operational research to answer these
questions. Immunization will be offered in three neighboring rural counties
of each of three provinces (Ningxia, Jilin, and Sichuan). T'hree immunization
protocols of known effectiveness under ideal conditions will be tested for
efficacy in the test areas. Activities include:
(a) development and testing of a simplified township level test for the
carrier state in pregnant women;
(b) health education of the population on the importance of hepatitis B
immunization and observation of demand for immunization services;
(c) investigating alternatives to finance the supply of vaccine to
uninsured persons and operations research on the effectiveness of
introducing hepatitis B immunization to rural populations without
health insurance.
(d) training of local staff, and measurement of ability to provide
services according to protocol; and,
(e) measurement of the effect on the chronic infections rate in
infants.
19.       The project will support needed equipment, supplies, supervision
and training costs both at the field and central levels. The project will be
the responsibility of the Division of Acute Infectious Disease and will be
executed by the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine. Duration will be four
years (1992-1995), including preparation of the final report.



CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Project Cost Souary
YUAN                               USS                             X Total
---------------------------------    ------------------------------   X Foreign     Base
Local   Foreign      Total        Local  Foreign    Total       Exchange      Costs
A. TB - CONTROL PROGRAM
1. DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES          64886.0    7599.3   72485.3       12173.7   1425.8  13599.5           10.5       5.4
2. CHEMOTHERAPY                196754.6   21861.6  218616.2       36914.6   4101.6  41016.2           10.0       16.3
3. CASE MANAGEMENT              72466.9       0.0   72466.9       13596.0       0.0  13596.0           0.0        5.4
Sub-Total                        334107.4   29461.0  363568.4        62684.3   5527.4  68211.7            8.1       27.1
B. TB - INSTIT. DEVELOPNENT
1. PROVINCIAL TB PROGRAM       23102.6      358.7   c5461.3        4334.4     67.3   4401.7            1.5        1.7
2. HEALTH EDUCATION              7458.8       0.0    7458.8        1399.4      0.0   1399.4            0.0        0.6
3. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION       79933.1   22861.3  102794.4       14996.8   4289.2  19286.0           22.2        7.7
4. TRAIN. & TECHNI. ASSIST.     43738.2    4377.2   48115.4        8206.0    821.2   9027.3            9.1        3.6
5. OPERATIONAL RESEARCH          910.0      230.0    1140.0         170.7     43.2    213.9           20.2        0.1
Sub-Total                         155142.7   2T827.2  182970.0       29107.5   5220.9  34328.3           15.2       13.6
C. SCHISTO - CONTROL PROGRAM
1. CASE IDENTIFICATION         134167.0    6477.7  140644.7       25172.0   1215.3  26387.4            4.6       10.5
2. CHEMOTHERAPY                218764.7   20450.2  239214.9       41044.0   3836.8  44880.8            8.5       17.8
3. SNAIL DETECT. & CONTROL     178627.3   19514.4  198141.8       33513.6   3661.2  37174.8            9.8       14.8
Sub-Total                         531559.0   46442.3  578001.4       99729.7   8713.4  108443.0           8.0       43.0
D. SCHISTO - INSTIT. DEVELOP
1. HEALTH EDUCATION            48781.8    7295.7   56077.5         9152.3   1368.8  10521.1           13.0       4.2
2. TRAINING                     29358.8    3229.5   32588.2        5508.2    605.9   6114.1            9.9        2.4
3. PROGRAM MIANAGEMENT          73367.5    6418.0   79785.5       13765.0   1204.1  14969.1            8.0        5.9
4. SURVEILLANCE                  3814.0    1574.7    5388.7         715.6    295.4   1011.0           29.2        0.4
5. OPERATiO!AL RESEARCH         18806.0    4354.0   23160.0        3528.3    816.9   4345.2           18.8        1.7
Stb-Totat                         174128.1   22871.9  197000.0       32669.4   4291.2  36960.6           11.6       14.7
E. CENTRAL PROJECT COMPONENT
1. CENTRAL-TB PROGRAM           7082.2    2799.5    9881.7         1328.7    525.2   1854.0           28.3        0.7
2. CENTRAL-SCHISTO.PROGRAM      4368.2    1496.2    5864.4          819.6    280.7   1100.3           25.5        0.4
3. OTHER INFECTIOUS DISEASES    3436.1    1921.2    5357.3          644.7    360.5   1005.1           35.9        0.4
Sub-Total                          14886.5    6216.9   21103.5        2793.0   1166.4   3959.4           29.5        1.6
Total BASELINE COSTS             1209823.9  132819.4  1342643.2    226983.8  24919.2  251903.0            9.9      100.0
Physical Contingencies          12187.3    1100.6   13287.9        2286.5    206.5   2493.0            8.3        1.0
Price Contingencies            218367.6   16344.8  234712.4       15552.7   1054.8  16607.5            6.4        6.6              aQ X
Total PROJECTS COSTS             1440378.8  150264.7  1590643.5    244823.1  26180.5 271003.6             9.7      107.6
Values Scaled by 1000.0 - 8/22/1991  22:16                                                                                               I



CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDENIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Summiry Accounts Cost Sumery
YUAN                               USS                              X Total
---------------------------------    ------------------------------   X Foreign       Base
Local   Foreign      Total        Local   Foreign    Total       Exchwne       Costs
1. IIVESTNENT COSTS
A. ClVtIL  ORKS                   49870.3        0.0   49870.3        9356.5       0.0   9356.5            0.0       3.7
B. EQUIPMENT                      26528.4   27054.8   53583.2         4977.2   5075.9  10053.1            50.5       4.0
C. VEHICLES                       2727.6   39495.4   66768.0          5116.8   7410.0  12526.8            59.2       5.0
0. NOLLUSCICIDE                   85207.8    9467.5   94675.3        15986.4   1776.3  17762.7            10.0       7.1
E. DRUGS                         360518.1   40057.6  400575.7        67639.4   7515.5  75154.9            10.0      29.8
F. HEALTH EDU. MATERIALS          39956.9        0.0   39956.9        7496.6       0.0   7496.6            0.0       3.0
G. OTHER MATERIALS               129684.1        0.0  129684.1       24331.0       0.0  24331.0            0.0       9.7
M. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             168.0    8619.8    8787.8           31.5   1617.2   1648.7            98.1        0.7
I. TRAINING
1. TRAINING                    6?598.3    1605.0   69203.3        12682.6    301.1   12983.7           2.3  .    5.2
2. TRAINING ABROAD                 0.0    6519.3    6519.3            0.0   1223.1   1223.1           100.0       0.5
_-- .------- --- -- --- ,- - ----- -- - --- ---  --------------  -  - -   -------------
Sub-Total                         67598.3    8124.3   75722.5        12682.6   1524.3  14206.9            10.7       5.6
J. OPERATIONAL RESEARCH FUND      22868.5        0.0   22868.5        4290.5       0.0   4290.5           0.0         1.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           89673.0  132819.4  942492.4    151908.6  24919.2  176827.8               14.1      70.2
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. STAFF SALARY & TEMP LAOR      102643.6        0.0  102643.6       19257.7       0.0  19257.7            0.0        7.6
S. OTHER OPERATING COSTS         235882.3        0.0  235882.3       44255.6       0.0  44255.6            0.0       17.6
C. OPERATIONS * MAINTENANCE       22278.1        0.0   22278.1        4179.8       0.0   4179.8            0.0        1.7
D. VEHICLE OPER. & MAINTEN.       39346.8        0.0   39346.8        782.1        0.0    n82.1            0.0        2.9
Total RECURRENT COSTS            400150.8        0.0  400150.8       75075.2       0.0  75075.2            0.0      29.8
Total BASELINE COSTS            1209823.9  132819.4  1342643.2    226983.8  24919.2 251903.0               9.9      100.0
Physical Contingencies         12187.3    1100.6   13287.9         2286.5    206.5   2493.0             8.3        1.0
Price Contingencies           218367.6   16344.8  234712.4        15552.7   1054.8  16607.5             6.4        6.6
Total PROJECTS COSTS            1440378.8  150264.7  1590643.5    244823.1  26180.5  271003.6              9.7      107.6
------------------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------------------o 
Values Scaled by 1000.0 -  8/22/1991  22:17                                                                                                  S.
o 0
tcf



CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDENIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Summary Account by Project Component
Yn
DIAGNOSTI               CASE   PROVINCIA               PROGRAM    TRAIN. & OPERATION      CASE                 SNAIL
C     CHEMOTHER  NANAGEHEN      L TB     HEALTH  IMPLEMENT   TECHNI.        AL    IDENTIFIC CHENOTHER DETECT. &    HEALTH
SERVICES    APY         t        PROGRAM   EDUCATION    ATION    ASSIST.   RESEARCN    ATION        PT       CONTROL  EDUCATION
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. CIVIL WRlKS                       4191.0        0.0        0.0   15132.1         0.0        0.0    4231.3         0.0    8742.7      3185.0    7040.0    3270.0
3. EQUIPMENT                        10856.2        0.0        0.0      797.1        0.0        0.0      913.2        0.0   14394.9         0.0    9964.7    9796.0
C. VEHICLES                             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    32659.0        0.0        0.0   10346.0    3435.0    7934.0    4125.0
0. NOLLUSCICIDE                         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0   94675.3         0.0
E. DRUGS                                0.0   218616.2        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0  160457.0         0.0       0.0
F. HEALTH EDU. MATERIALS                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    7458.8         0.0        0.0        0.o        0.0        0.0       0.0   32125.0
G. OTHER ATIERIALS                  57438.1        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    2379.0         0.0    27812.6   10601.0   31453.4          0.0
H. TECHNtCAL ASSISTAMCE                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0     1831.2      230.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
I. TRAINING
1. TRAINING                            0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0   36685.9         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
2. TRAINING ABRO                       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    2074.8         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
sub-total                               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0   38760.7         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       00 
J. OPERATIIAL RESEARCH FUND             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0     910.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0    w
Total INVE  TMENT COSTS             72485.3  218616.2         0.0   15929.2    7458.8   32659.0   48115.4    1140.0   61296.2  197678.0  151087.4   49316.0
11. RECURRENT COSTS
.. . ... . . . . .
A. STAFF SALARY 9 TEWP LABOR            0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0   53077.1   Z1889.6   24662.4           0.0
S. OTHER OPERATING COSTS                0.0        0.0   72466.9    7532.1          0.0   47894.5         0.0        0.0   17499.7   17929.8   15928.8    3737.5
C. OPERATIONS & MAINTENAICE             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    3598.7         0.0    2496.2      961.5
0. VEHICLE OPER. * MAINTEN.             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0   22240.9         0.0        0.0    5173.0    1717.5    3967.0    2062.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   0.0        0.0   72466.9    7532.1          0.0   70135.4         0.0        0.0   79348.5   41536.9   47054.4    6761.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                72485.3  218616.2   72466.9   23461.3    7458.8  102794.4   48115.4    1140.0  140644.7  239214.9  198141.8   56077.5
Physical Contingencies              209.5   10930.8         0.0      756.6        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      437.1      159.2      352.0      163.5
Price Ctntingenc(es               14698.8   54717.5   17369.3    2652.4    1672.6   17519.1    9401.3            185.0   18447.5   35941.7   29382.4        mo.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                 87393.6  284264.5   89836.2   26870.3    9131.4  120313.5   57516.7    1325.0  159529.4  275315.8  227876.1   63971.6
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - --                                                              -               .
Taxes                                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                   7953.6   28426.4         0.0      373.0        0.0   24059.9    5244.9        267.3    6736 8    23313.6   21517.5    7876.4
Values Scaled by 1000.0  8/22/1991  22:16
*1
fD 0
00
t.tI



CHINA
INFECTIOUS ANID ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Su.ary Accoamt by Project Caqenent
TUAN
OTHER                       Physical            Price
PROGRAM             OPERATION             CENTRAL-S  INFECTIOU                    Contingencies       Contingencies
MANAGEMEN  SURVEILLA      AL    CENTRAL-T  CHISTO.PR      S                    -------------------------------------
TRAINING     T         NCE      RESEARCH  0 PROGRAM    OGRAM     DISEASES      Total         X      DAsMt        I   Amount
I. INVSTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL UIRKS                          0.0    2958.2         0.0        0.0    1120.0         0.0        0.0   49870.3         4.6    2281.9       6.4    3200.9
B. EQUIPMENT                            0.0    4715.8       699.4        0.0      821.4      185.9      418.6   53583.2         0.0        0.0      5.5    2971.3
C. VEHICLES                             0.0    6137.0    1800.0          0.0      257.0       75.0        0.0   66768.0         0.0        0.0      4.7    3124.6
0. MOLLUSCICIDE                         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0   94675.3         0.0        0.0    16.2  -15341.6
E. DRUGS                                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    1502.5  400575.7          2.7   11005.9    20.6   82607.7
F. HEALTH EDU. MATERIALS                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      373.1   39956.9         0.0        0.0    17.3    6923.9
6. OTHER MATERIALS                      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0  129684.1         0.0        0.0    19.6   25427.1
H. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 0.9        0.0        0.0    4354.0       480.0    1000.0       892.6    8787.8         0.0        0.0    18.5    1621.7
I. TRAINING
1. TRAINING                        29358.8        0.0        0.0        0.0    1605.0       999.5      554.1   69203.3         0.0        0.0    18.9   13082.2
2. TRAINING ABROAD                  3229.5        0.0        0.0        0.0      165.0      360.0      690.0    6519.3         0.0        0.0    19.2    1252.5
Stbtotat                            32588.2        0.0        0.0        0.0    1770.0    1359.5    1244.1   75722.5            0.0        0.0    18.9   14334.8
J. OPERATIONAL RESEARCH FUdND           0.0        0.0        0.0   18806.0    1332.9    1500.0         319.6   22868.5         0.0        0.0    18.6    42'6.4
Total INVESTHENT COSTS              32588.2   13811.0    2499.4   23160.0    5781.3    4120.4    4750.5  942492.4               1.4   13287.9    17.0  159809.9
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. STAF' SALARY & TEMP LAOR             0.0        0.0    1814.5         0.0      700.0      500.0        0.0  102643.6         0.0        0.0    15.7   16109.0
B. OTHER OPERATING COSTS                0.0   48407.0         0.0        0.0    2820.0    1160.0        506.0  235882.3         0.0        0.0    20.0   47230.7
C. OPEIRTIONS & MAINTENANCE             0.0   14499.0       174.8        0.0      400.5       46.5      100.8   22278.1         0.0        0.0    16.4    3658.1
0. VEHICLE OPER. & MAINTEN.             0.0    3068.5       900.0        0.0      179.9       37.5        0.0   39346.8         0.0        0.0    20.1    7904.7
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   0.0   65974.5    2889.3          0.0    4100.4    1744.0        606.8  400150.8         0.0        0.0    18.7   74902.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                32588.2   79785.5    5388.7   23160.0    9881.7    5864.4    5357.3  1342643.2              1.0   13287.9    17.5  234712.4
Physical Contingencies                (3.0     147.9        0.0        0.0       56.0        0.0       75.1   13287.9
Price Contingencies                5388.9    11263.5      599.1    4465.9    1695.7        931.4      649.8  234712.4         1.2    2757.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                 37977.1   91196.9      5987.8   27625.9   11633.5    6795.8    6082.3  1590643.5            1.0   16045.8    14.8  234712.4
Taxes                                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                   3852.2    6674.3      1637.7    5193.6    3257.7    1733.3    2146.0  150264.7             0.9    1362.2
Values Scaled by 1000.0  8/22/1991  22:16
00C
I-t



CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Summhry Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
USS
1992      1993       1994       1995      1996       1997       1998      Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                      7147.2    2220.7      513.4       28.0       0.0        0.0        0.0    9909.4
8. EQUJIPMENT                      8813.3      689.5      234.5      214.2     220.5        0.0        0.0   10171.9
C. VEHICLES                        11450.0    1006.1      167.6        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0   12623.8
D. MOLLUSCICIDE                     4339.0    3122.9    3215.0    3309.9    4830.6          0.0        0.0   18817.5
E. DRUGS                           12490.4   13538.5   13077.6   13888.6   14396.7    7970.5    7912.2   83274.5
F. HEALTH EOU. MATERIALS            1433.2    1472.5    1505.4    1528.1    1573.2        230.4      237.2    7980.0
G. OTHER MATERIALS                 4256.5    4059.3    4152.0    4406.4    5097.9    2112.8    2100.0   26184.8
H. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              175.6     368.1      379.0      390.2     335.2       56.6       58.2    1762.9
1. TRAINING
1. TRAINING                     2504.4    2280.0    2326.4    2382.8    Z215.5    1098.7    1120.0   13927.8
2. TRAINING ABROAD                99.3      295.0      282.4      254.8     250.7       64.1       66.0    1312.2
Sub-Total                          2603.7    2574.9    2608.9    2637.6    2466.2    1162.8    1185.9   15240.0
J. OPERATIONAL RESEARCH FUND         145.0    1087.5    1129.5    1115.2    1099.1         10.8        0.0    4587.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             52853.8   30140.1   26983.0   27518.1   30019.5   11543.8   11493.5  190551.8                        ∞
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. STAFF SALARY & TEMP LABOR        4434.7    3986.4    3947.2    3810.5    4122.1          21.6      22.3   20344.7
B. OTHER OPERATING COSTS            7227.1    7538.6    7575.4    7999.8    8655.4    4358.4    4361.4   47716.1
C. OPERATIONS & MAINTENANCE          823.6     853.5      880.0      906.0     928.1       25.8       1217    4429.8
D. VEHICLE OPER. & MAINTEN.         1145.0    1268.9    1323.1    1362.1    1402.3        727.2      732.7    7961.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS              13630.4   13647.4   13725.6   14078.3   15107.9    5133.0    5129.1   80451.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                66484.2   43787.5   40708.6   41596.4   45127.5   16676.8   16622.6  271003.6
Values Scaled by 1000.0 8/22/1991  22:17
O>
Mq M
x
I.-.
o 0



CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Projects Conpionents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
USS
1992      1993       1994       1995       1996       1997       1998     Total
A. TB - CONTROL PROGRAM
1. DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES            3537.1    1730.1    1544.5    1802.8    2055.6    2040.6    2025.6   14736.3
2. CHEMOTHERAPY                   4679.4    5919.0    5819.7    6932.6    8029.1    7970.5    7912.2   47262.5
3. CASE MANAGEMENT                1439.6    1821.0    1852.2    2206.4    2555.4    2536.8    2518.2   14929.5
SLib-Total                           9656.1    9470.1    9216.4   10941.8   12640.1   12547.8   12456.0   76928.2
S. TB - INSTIT. DEVELOPMENT
1. PROVIlCIAL TS PROGRAM          2841.4      635.9      195.8      233.2      270.1     268.1      266.1    4710.5
2. HEALTH EDUCATION                201.0      205.1      211.1      217.4      223.8     230.4      237.2    1526.0
3. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION         6934.1    2860.4    2162.3    2053.5    2114.1    2176.5    2240.7   20541.6
4. TRAIN. & TECHNI. ASSIST.       2405.8    1269.5    1140.1    1173.7    1208.3    1244.0    1280.7    9722.1
5. OPERATIONAL RESEARCH             43.0       43.9       45.2       46.5       47.9        0.0        0.0     226.5
Sub-Totat                           12425.4    5014.7    3754.5    3724.3    3864.2    3919.0    4024.6   36726.7
C. SCHISTO - CONTROL PROGRAM
1. CASE IDENTIFICAWON             9932.6    5025.8    4615.2    4080.0    3994.6            1.9       0.0   27650.2
2. CHEMOTHERAPY                  11290.8    9672.3    9239.0    8903.5    8191.7            0.0        0.0   47297.1
3. SNAIL DETECT. & CONTROL       11856.7    6533.0    5938.7    6113.9    8744.7           27.0        0.0   39214.0                1
----------------------------   ------------------------------------------------------------  _I-
Sub-Total                           33080.1   21231.0   19792.9   19097.4   20931.0          28.9         0.0  114161.4               4>
D. SCHISTO - INSTIT. DEVELOP
1. HEALTH EDUCATION               3710.1    1942.6    1749.2    1800.8    1853.9            0.0       0.0   11056.6
2. TRAINING                       1020.2    1345.1    1384.8    1425.6    1305.3            0.0        0.0    6481.1
3. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT             5122.5    2539.7    2614.7    2691.8    2771.2            0.0        0.0   15739.9
4. SURVE;LLANCE                    561.4       91.7      144.6       97.2      153.3        0.0        0.0    1048.3
5. OPERATIONAL RESEARCH              0.0    1114.4    1147.3    1181.2    1216.0            0.0       0.0    4659.0
Sub-Total                           10414.2    7033.6    7040.6    7196.6    7299.8            0.0        0.0   38984.8
E. CENTRAL PROJECT CONPONENT
1. CENTRAL-TB PROGRAM              468.3      376.6      359.4      274.6      181.2      181.2     142.0    1983.3
2. CENTRAL-SCHISTO.PROGRAM         220.6      237.2      244.2      251.4      209.7        0.0       0.0    1163.0
3. OTHER INFECTIOUS DISEASFS       219.6      424.2      300.6      110.3        1.4        0.0        0.0    1056.1
Sub-Total                             908.4    1038.1       904.3      636.3      392.3      181.2      142.0    4202.5
Total PROJECTS COSTS                66484.2   43787.5   40708.6   41596.4   45127.5   16676.8   16622.6  271003.6                OQ :3
Values Scaled by 1000.0 8/22/1991  22:17                                                                                          o _



- 142 -                            Annex ll
Page 1 of 3
STTOIARY PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(USS Million)
Provincial    Central
Financier                      IDA         Government   Government    Total
SCHISTOSOMIASIS COMPONENT    Ma.l             8              -         153.2
Provinces:
Hubei                     19.4           18.3          --          37.7
Sichuan                    8.7           10.1          --          18.8
Jiangsu                    2.5            7.8          --          10.3
Hunan                     16.7           16.7          --          33.4
Anhui                      7.7            9.6          --          17.3
Jiang'di                   9.3            8.9          --          18.2
Yunnan                     4.7            5.0          --           9.7
Zhejiang                  1.8             5.9          --           7.7
TUBERCULOSIS COMPONENT          6.7Z          56.9           -113.6
Provinces:
Shandong                  6.1             6.3          --          12.4
Xinjiang                   2.3            2.5          --           4.8
Hubei                      4.5            4.7          --           9.2
Hebei                      6.2            6.0          --          12.2
Gansu                      2.3            2.4          --           4.7
Liaoning                   3.3,           3.5          --           6.8
Guangdong                 4.6             4.9          --           9.5
Sichuan                  13.6            12.8                      26.4
Hunan                      6.7            6.6          --          13.3
Ningxia                    0.7            0.8          --           1.5
Hainan                     0.9            1.0          --           1.9
Heilongjiang               5.3            5.5          --          10.8
CENTRAL ACTIVITIES                                                        LI -  L2  L
TOTAL                 129.6          .139.2        2.2          271.0



CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
USS
CENTRAL
IDA        LOCAL/PROVINCE      GOVERNMENT           Total                   Local
- -- -------    For.  (Exct.   Duties
Amount                                        X Amount    X  AMoat    %  Amount    X  Exch.    Taxes)    & Tax.
A. CIVIL WORKS (Central)            0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    227.0  100.0    227.0    0.1           0.0    227.0        0.0
B. CIVIL WURKS                      0.0    0.0   S814.4  100.0          0.0    0.0   9814.4    3.6        59.4   9755.0        0.0
C. EQUIPMENT                    21620.7  100.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0  21620.7    8.0  12075.0   9545.7           0.0
D. DRUGS                        83274.5  100.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0  83274.5   30.7   8327.4  74947.0           0.0
E. MOLLUSCICIDE                 18817.5  100.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0  18817.5    6.9   1881.7  16935.7           0.0
F. HEALTH EDU. MATERIALS            0.0    0.0  15202.4  100.0          0.0    0.0  15202.4    5.6    469.3  14733.1           0.0
G. HEALTH EDU.                      0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       72.0  100.0       72.0    0.0       0.0      72.0       0.0
H. OTHER MATERIALS                  0.0    0.0  19933.4  100.0          0.0    0.0  19933.4    7.4         0.0  19933.'        0.0
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          1762.9  100.0        0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0   1762.9    0.7   1728.5         3'.4       0.0
J. TRAINING                         0.0    0.0  13294.6  100.0          0.0    0.0  13294.6    4.9         0.0  13;'04.6       0.0
K. TRAINING (Central)               0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    633.2  100.0    633.2    0.2    326.9    .06.3             0.0
L. TRAINING ABROAD               1312.2  100.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    1312.2    0.5   1312.2         0.0       0.0
M. OPERATIONAL RESEARCH          2180.1   55.0   1783.8   45.0          0.0    0.0   3963.9    1.5         0.0   I '3.9        0.0
N. OPERATIONAL                    623.2  100.0        0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    623.2    0.2         0.0       3.2       0.0
0. SALARIES                         0.0    0.U  20102.2  100.0          0.0    0.0  20102.2    7.4         0.0  20,d2.2        0.0
P. INCREM.STAFF COSTS               0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0    242.5  100.0    242.5    0.1          0.0    242.5        0.0
0. PROJECT OPERATING COSTS          0.0    0.0  59049.4  100.0          0.0    0.0  59049.4   21.b          0.0  59049.4       0.0
R. PROJ. MGOY COSTS (Cent.)         0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0   1057.7  100.0   1057.7    0.4           0.0    1057.7       0.0
Total Disbursement             129591.1    47.8  139180.1   51.4   2232.4    0.8 271003.S  100.0  26180.5  244823.1            0.0
Values Scaled by 1000.0 8/22/1991 22:18
otl



CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Finwancing Plan by Project Components
uss
CENTRAL
IDA        LOCAL/PROVINCE     GOVERNMENT          Total                 Local
--------------------------   --------------------~~---- -----)-------------   For.  (Exct.  Duties
Amount    X      Anount    X      Amount    X      Amomt    X        Exch.   Taxes)   I Tax.
A. DIAGNOSTIC SERVICES          2052.1   13.9  12684.2   86.1        0.0    0.0  14736.3    5.4   1436.5  13299.8         0.0
B. CHEMDTHERAPY                47262.5  100.0       0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0  47262.5   17.4   4726.2  42536.2         0.0
C. CASE MANAGEMENT                 0.0    0.0  14929.5  100.0        0.0    0.0  14929.5    5.5        0.0  14929.5       0.0
D. PROVINCIAL TB PROGRAN         150.4    3.2   4560.1   96.8        0.0    0.0   4710.5    1.7       67.7   4642.9       0.0
E. HEALTH EDUCATION                0.0    0.0   1526.0  100.0        0.0    0.0   1526.0    0.6        0.0   1526.0       0.0
F. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION       6186.4   30.1  14355.2   69.9        0.0    0.0  20541.6    7.6   4330.5  16211.1         0.0
G. TRAIN. & TECRiJI. ASSIST.     971.7   10.0   8750.4   90.0        0.0    0.0   9722.1    3.6    885.6   8836.5         0.0
M. OPERATIONAL RESEARCH          145.1   64.1      81..   35.9       0.0    0.0    226.5    0.1       45.7    180.8       0.0         >
i. CASE IDENTIFICATION         4667.7   16.9  22982.5   83.1         0.0    0.0  27650.2   10.2   1222.0  26428.2         0.0
J. CHEMOTHERAPY                36351.3   76.9  10W45.8   23.1        0.0    0.0  47297.1   17.5   4023.9  43273.2         0.0
K. SNAIL DETECT. * CONTROL     22205.0   56.6  17009.1   43.4        0.0    0.0  39214.0   14.5   3780.9  35433.1         0.0
L. HEALTH EDUCCATION            1503.7   13.6   9552.9   86.4        0.0    0.0  11056.6    4.1   1400.0   9656.6         0.0
M. TRAINING                      649.7   10.0   5831.4   90.0        0.0    0.0   6481.1    2.4    649.7   5831.4         0.0
N. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT           2047.4   13.0  13692.6   87.0        0.0    0.0  15739.9    5.8   1210.8  14529.2         0.0
0. SURVEILLANCE                  471.5   45.0    576.8   55.0        0.0    0.0   1048.3    0.4    297.1    751.2         0.0
P. OPERATIONAL RESEARCH         2956.6   63.5   1702.4   36.5        0.0    0.0   4659.0    1.7    875.9   3783.1         0.0
0. CENTRAL-TB PROGRM             593.7   29.9       0.0    0.0   1389.7   70.1   1983.3    0.7    557.3   1426.1          0.0
R. CENTRAL-SCHISTO.PROGRAM       618.3   53.2       0.0    0.0    544.7   46.8   1163.0    0.4    296.8    866.2          0.0
S. OTHER INFECTIOUS              758.1   71.8       0.0    0.0    298.0   28.2   1056.1    0.4    374.2    682.0          0.0
Total Disbursement            129591.1   47.8  139180.1   51.4   2232.4    0.8  271003.6  100.0  26180.5  244823.1        0.0
Values Scaled by 1000.0 8/22/1991  22:18
M 



- 145 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 1
CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Disbursement              Disbursement Profile
Bank        Year and      Semester       Cumulative        China's   Project
Fiscal      Semester                                      (General)
Year        Ending                                           %            %
1992        31-Dec-91        0.0            0.0               0            0
30-Jun-92        3.9           3.9             0.3          0.3
1993        31-Dec-92        9.1           13.0             0.1          0.1
30-Jun-93       10.4          23.3             0.18         0.18
1994        31-Dec-93       15.6           38.9             0.3          0.3
30 Jun-94      15.6           54.4             0.42         0.42
1995        31-Dec-94       15.6           70.0             0.54         0.54
30-Jun-95       15.6          85.5             0.66         0.66
1996        31-Dec-95       10.4           95.9             0.74         0.74
30-Jun-96        5.2         101.1             0.78         0.78
1997        31-Dec-96       10.4          111.5             0.86         0.86
30-Jun-97        5.2         116.6             0.9          0.9
1998        31-Dec-97        5.2          121.8             0.94         0.94
30-Jun-98        5.2         127.0             0.98         0.98
1999        31-Jun-99        2.6          129.6                1            1



- 146 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 1
CHINA
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Implementation Schedule and Estimated Annual
Contractual and Other Payments
(US$ million equivalent)
Pre-                     Project Year                           Total
Project Elemnt                Project        1     2      3      4      5      6     7        Payment       Remarks
C4LrL Works
Bld/Award                     xx      xxxx
Construction                           7.1   2.2   0.5                                      9.9         LCB/Other
xx   xxxx  xxIx  lx
Goods
BLd/Avard                     xx       xx
Equipment                              8.8   0.7   0.2   0.2   0.2                          10.2            ICB
xxx  mx   mx   xxxi  Wx   xx
Vehicles                              11.5   1.0   0.2                                      12.6            IC8
xxx     x xxx      xx
MoLluacicide                           4.3   3.1   3.2   3.3   4.8                          18.8            IC8
m   xxxx     mx _wxxx   __
Drugs                                 12.5  13.5  13.1  13.9  14.4   8.0   8.0              83.8            ICB
x            Yx lxxx   mx   m x    x   mxr
Berl4X t 16CS.cton Materiel            1.4   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   0.2   0.2               8.0        Direct/Other
mxxxx    mx  M  mx mx
Other Mat*rs;I                         4.3   4.1   4.2   4.4   5.1   2.1   2.1              26.2        Direct/Other
mx Jm  mx  mx  ain mxxxx
Technical Assistance                       0.2   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.1   0.1               1.8
lx     Ia    1 xx           m_ x u m  xxx     mX
TraLn                                      2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.5   1.2   1.2             15.2
xx        xx   mx  YYmx  xxx   mx   m xxxx
Oneratlonal Research                       0.1   1.0   1.1   1.1   1.1                           4.6
xx  xxl    x  xx   m
Inremetal Recurrent Costs                13.6  13.6  13.7  14.1  15.1   5.1   5.1               80.5
xx   mx  m  xxxx mx  mx  m
TOTALS                                66.5  43.8  40.7  41.6  45.1  16.7  16.6              271.0
(lank-Financed)                      (37.2)(19.5)(17.8)(18.5)(20.S) (8.1) (8.0)            (129.6)



- 147 -
Annex 14
CHINA                        Page 1 of 8
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
SCHISTOSOMIASIS COMPONENT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS
1. INPUT PROVIDED
Date Month Year                           Report prepared by:
_ ____                               (Name)
(Title)
Province:      Prefecture:       County:      Township:       Village:
High Endemicity Area  Medium Endemicity   Low Endemicity
Item        Planned   Actual1    Planned   Actual1  Planned  Actual'
I1.
Praziquantel
(for humans)
(No. of
persons)       .             _
2.
Praziquantel
(for cattle)
(No. of
heads)
3,
Niclosamide
(for snails)
(10 ,00Om2)                                  _  _
4.
Environmental
modification
(m ) (by sub-
project) and
(RMB)_          _     ___                                      _
Notes:  ii     On separate sheet provide reasons for significant deviations
from plans and corrective actions planned for the next
reporting period.



ku111u-A IC
- 148 -                      Page 2 of 8
2. ACTIVITIES UNDERTAKEN - DISEASE CONTROL
Date Month Year                           Report prepared by:
(Name)
(Title)
Province:       Prefecture:       County:      Township:_   Village:
High Endemicity Area  Medium Endemicity    Low Endemicity
Item        Planned    Covered'   Planned   Covered4   Planned  C3vered4
11.
No. of
Villages
2.
Population
(10,000)
a) Screened
b) Treated
3. Floating
| eople
a) Screened
b) Treated
4.
Cattle1
(10,000)
a) Screened
b) Treated
5.
Snails HT
Are2
(10,000)
a) Surveyed
b) Mollu-
scicided



Annex 14
Page 3 of 8
- 149 -
6.
tal modi-.
(10,OOm2)
and RHB
Noes
I/   Includes both cattle and buffaloes
3'   High Transmission Areas
Il   By sub-project area
4/   On separate sheet provide reasons for significant deviations from plans
and correction actions to be undertaken in next reporting period.



Annex 14
- 150 -                      Page 4 of 8
3. ACTIVITIES UNDERTAKEN - INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Date Month Year                           Report prepared by:
(Name)
(Title)
Province-:     Prefecture:       Couity:      Township:       Village:
Item
(Add details as per appraisal report)  Planned  Actual  Comments'
Health Education
a) Basic knowledge on Schisto
b) Preventive strategy
c) Technical Strategy
d) School Children
e) County level
Training
a) National level
b) Provincial level
c) County level
Surveillance 
a) Population survey
b) Childrens' survey
c) Snail survey
Note: A' Reasons tor deviation trom plans 'adTfuure actions plannedl.



AnLneA 14
- 151 -                     Page5 of 8
4. OUTPUT INDICATORS
Date Month Year                           Report prepared by:
(Name)
(Title)
Province:      Prefecture:       County:-  Township:           Village:
High Endemicity Area 1 Medium Endemicity    Low Endemicity
Item        Target      Actual4   Target      Actual4    Target   Actual4
11.
PoRulation
a) Screened
b) Treated
2.
Floatingl
ReoRlel
a) Screened
b) Treated
3.
Cattle1
a) Screened
b) Treated
4.
Snail HT
a) Surveyed
b) Mollu-
sciaded



..ILLIA 1 14
- 152 -                     Page 6 oFt 
5.
Environ-
tat modi-
ficatioti3
a) m2
(10,000)
b) RMB
Notes:
J1  Includes both cattle and buffaloes
it  Snail High Transmission Areas
31   By sub-project area
4/I  On separate sheet provide reasons for significant deviations from plans
and corrective actions planned for the next reporting period.



aLLLILUa 14
- 153 -                      Page 7 of 8
5. PROGRAM RESULTS
Date Month Year                           Report prepared by:
_____                                (Name)
(Title)
Province:       Prefecture:       County:      Township:       Village:
High Endemicity Area  Medium Endemicity    Low Endemicity
Item        Planned    Covered4   Planned   Covered4   Planned  Covered4
1.l
Disease
Control
for Humans
a) Preva-
lence
rate (%)
b) No. of
people
infected
c) Inten-
sity
(epg)
d) Acute
cases
(no.)
2.
Disease
Control for
Cattle
a) Preva-
lence
Rate
- Cattle
(%)
- Water
buffa-
loes
(%



- 154 -                     Page 8 of 8
3.
Snail
Control
a) Snail
Habitat
(10, 00Om2)
b) H.T.
Areas
(10,00Om2)
c) Snail
Infec-
tion
- Areas(%)
- Rate(per
O. llm2)
Notes:
Il   epg  - eggs per gram.



IJJ
Annex 15
Page 1 of 4
China
Infectious and Endemic Disease Control Project
Estimated Numbers and Distribution of Vehicles
Reguired for Effective Project Implementation
1.        The project requires a large number of vehicles for implementation
of disease control activities. The purpose of this annex is to list and
clarify the numbers required and their purposes so that appropriate, timely
procurement and management of the vehicles can be facilitated.
2.        The schistosomiasis control program requires by its nature a number
of type of boats. These are shown in the detailed project cost tables.
Inflatable rubber boats are required in some cases for field workers to gain
access to marshy beaches and river banks for snail survey and control. Small
rigid hull (metal, wood or fiberglass) boats are needed for snail survey and
control teams to do regular work in the lake regions. These boats should be
small (under six meters in length with a flat or nearly flat bottom). They
are intended to carry 4-5 workers, their portable molluscicide spray equipment
and supplies, and should be capable of being easily beached for work on land
and should provide a stable platform for snail survey and control work in
shallow waters. A very limited number of larger boats are needed for
molluscicide spray teams to do work in Poyang Lake. These boats 'hould be of
rigid materials, flat bottomed for shallow draft, about 10 meters in length
with wide beam, and capable of transporting molluscicide spraying teams, their
heavy pump spray equipment (diesel engines, spray motors, reserves of the
molluscicide and fuel). Local schistosomiasis offices have contact with boat
builders in the area who have provided such craft in the past. For Jiangxi
Province, crawler tractors are required for plowing and turn snail infested
marsh areas during low water period to kill the snails.
3.        Most of the vehicles required for schistosomiasis control however
are needed for timely transportation of the schistosomiasis workers. The
types of vehicles required are three. The purposes to be met can be divided
into six broad types as described in the tables below (these correspond to the
project sub-components). Some provinces need vehicles to fulfill all six
purposes, and others do not, according the physical and technical
characteristics of their programs.
4.        At appraisal the schistosomiasis department of each provincial
health bureau reviewed in detail with the World Bank mission the justification
and numbers of each vehicle type required. The appraisal review resulted in
substantial reductions in most cases from the initial requests as the meetings
were aware that it would be necessary to reduce proposed vehicles to the
minimum number required to carry out the work programs. The numbers agreed
upon with each province (shown below) take into account the physical
characteristics of the different areas - i.e., in parts of some provinces the
distances to be traveled around lakes and rivers make sharing of a vehicle,
cor multiple purposes or trips on the same day, impossible. In otber cases,
it will be feasible for two or three adjoining counties to share a vehicle to
move their teams short distances to perform their work while also serving the
needs of teams from other counties and delivering working supplies. Local



L u
Annex 15
Page 2 of 4
managers of schistosomiasis control teams will need to be responsible to
flexibly schedule their needs for vehicles so that other units in the same
region can also benefit from the vehicle.
5.        For some purposes the number of vehicles required is determined by
the intensity or volume of work to be perforw9ed. For example, in areas
subjected to large seasonal water level changes, million of square meters of
area must be sample surveyed for snail infestation and more vehicles are
required than in those provinces where snail survey work is highly localized.
Another example is provided by health education activities. In some areas
these can be conducted from nearby township level schistosomiasis stations
(e.g. Jiangxi) and only a few vehicles are required. In other cases (Sichuan)
the dispersal and topography, or (e.g. Hubei) the large numbers of villages
and people, require relatively more vehicles to reach the iopulations at risk.
Without strong programs of health education, lack of compl.ance of the
population with mass- and selective-chemotherapy may put success at risk.
6.        Vehicle numbers required for case identification are determined by
both the numbers of people to be examined, the endemicity (percent prevalence
of infection), and the identification method to be employed (stool examination
in the field versus serological examinations of blood samples collected). The
use of these techniques varies by province and vehicle numbers have been
adjusted accordingly. Vehicles required for treatment and control activities
must be sufficient in number so that treatment teams (8-9 people) can reach
the large numbers of people at risk during the critical seasons of the year.
7.        Project management will critically depend on local mobility to
supervise activities of all field teams in accordance with the revised control
strategy and to ensure that timely (quarterly) reporting is adhered to.
Intensive contact of supervisors with township and county-level personnel to
provide on-site training and guidance during the first several years of the
project will be critical to success. In some provinces it will be most
effective and economic to have project management vehicles which have the dual
function of supervision and of transporting supplies and field equipment to
work areas.
8.        The exact number of vehicles required for each sub-component must
of course take into account the condition and availability of vehicles
existing in the project area, and the availability of public transport and the
option of renting vehicles for peak activity periods. While these factors
were considered during appraisal it will only be possible for local managers
to fully take these factors into account. The numbers of vehicles shown in
the tables below should thus be taken as an estimate of total requirements for
each province. Variations of the total quantity and among purposes for each
province will have to be considered during implementation.
9.        The characteristics of the vehicle types shown below are as
follows. All should be simple, durable vehicles which are utilitarian in
nature and easy to maintain and service. The name "mini-van" means a multi-
passenger vehicle capable of carrying 6-9 people and about 100 kg of supplies
of moderate bulk. A "utility vehicle" means one with a passenger compartment
capable of carrying 4 people and a rear, open cargo area capable of
transporting loads of 750kg or more. "Jeep" means a vehicle capable of



Annex 15
Page 3 of 4
carrying 4 or more people, with supplies weighing 200 kg and with four wheel
drive.
Approximate Vehicle Requirements by Province and Purpose
Schistosomiasis ComPonent
Provinces  nd                        Type                            Total
sub-comoonent          Minivan       Utility         Jeep
TOTALS                  179          249             14                442
ANHUI (totals)           30            36             2                 68
Case Identif.            10             5                               15
Treatment                10                                             10
Snail Control                         22                                22
Health Educ.              8                           2                 10
Proj. Mgmt.                             9                                9
Surveillance              2                                              2
HUBEI (totals)           38            40             3                 a0
Case Identif.            16                                             16
Treatment                10                                             10
Snail Control                         20                                20
Health Educ.              8                           2                 10
Proj. Mgmt.                           20                                20
Surveillance              4                                              4
HUMAN (totals)           35            41             2                 78
Case Id.ntif.            11            12                               23
Treatment                10                                             10
Snail Control                         10                                10
Health Educ.              8                           2                 10
Proj. Mgmt.               1            19                               20
Surveillance              5                                              5
JIANGSU (totals)                       31             2                 38
Case Identif.                         26                                26
Health Educ.              3                           2                  5
Proj. Mgmt.                             5
Surveillance              2                                              2
JIANCXI (totals)         27            17             2                 46
Case Identif.            11                                             11
Treatment                 6                                              6
Snail Control                          17                               17
Health Educ.              3                           2                  5
Proj. Mgmt.               5                                              5
Surveillance              2                                              2
SICHUAN (totals)         1446                                           62
Case Identif.             2          21                                 23
Health Educ.              7                          2                   9
Proj. Mgmt.                          25                                 25
Surveillance              5                                              5
YUNNAN (totals)          13          27                                 40
Casa Identif.             6            7                                13
Treatment                 6                                              6
Snail Control                          7                                 7
Proj. Mmt.                           13                                 13
Surveillance              1                                              1
ZHEJIANG (totals)        17          11                                 AR
Case Identif.             5                                              S
Treatment                              5                                 5
Snail Control                          6                                 6
Health Educ.              4                          2                   6
Proj. Mgmt.               5 
Surveillnce               3                                              3



Annex 15
Page 4 of 4
10.       For the tuberculosis component of the project the number of
vehicles required is also large. The population covered is approximate 550
million, located in 386 prefectures accounting for 1222 counties. The purpose
of the vehicles is for resupply of the tuberculosis units with drugs and
consumable items and for supervision of implementation of the new diagnosis,
treatment and registry practices. Without supervision it will be impossible
to train and supervise workers to effectively adopt the Tuberculosis Policy
Package.
11.       The following standards were adopted by the MOPH and Bank teams
during appraisal. In those areas where reasonably regular public transport
was available, or where local health units already had vehicles, a project
vehicle would not be supplied to the county level County level vehicles would
mainly be supplied to those counties with high prevalence of TB, remote and
difficult travel conditions, poor public transport and large populations to be
served.
12.       Where vehicles are supplied to prefectures they should be required
to have the dual purpose of supervising and resupplying all TB units at the
urban district level and also serving surrounding counties for resupply, and
for enabling prefectural supervisors to supervise all counties within the
jurisdiction. In no case chould vehicles intended for field work and
supervision be used by other departments or be kept mainly for work in the
urban areas.  At the provincial level, only one vehicle should be supplied,
except in three provinces where the distances anid to be covered merit a second
provincial level vehicle. The table below provides details. Annex 1,
paragraph 37 presents the numbers of prefectures and counties by province. On
average, about half the prefectures and less than a third of the counties are
planned to receive vehicles. These shoula be considered minimum acceptable
numbers of vehicles for implementation.
13.       Vehicle types required are two.  The "minivan' should be capable of
carrying at least 8 persons and supplies for training, and for resupply of
lower levels. "Jeeps" should be simple and durable, capable of carrying three
persons and supplies.
Approximate Vehicle Requirements by Province and Purpose
Tuberculosis ComDonent
Province            Type           Total
Minivan    Jeep
TOTALS          13       649       662
GANSU            1        52        53
GUANGDONG        1        51        52
RAINAN           1         8         9
HEBEI            1        86        87
HEILONGJIJG      1        65        66
HUBEI            1        49        50
HUNAN            1        55        56
LIAONING         1        40        41
NINGXIA          2        10        12
SHANDONG         1        67        68
SICHUAN          2       126       128
XINJIANG         2        38        40



- 19 -
Annex 16
Page 1 of 3
China
Infectious and Endemic Disease Control Project
Supervision Plan
1.        IDA Supervision Input.  IDA field supervision for this project is
estimated at 13 staff weeks per year, usually divided between two main
missions each composed of 3 members working in the field for about 2.5 weeks
and with spacing of missions about six months apart. Each mission will need
to have two health specialists, one primarily responsible for the
schistosomiasis component and one responsible for the tuberculosis component.
A team leader will need to help in review of one of the diseases, plus ensure
that central project activities are progressing and that technical assistance
is being provided. He will also have to review project costs, overseas
training, znd procurement, which is largely centralized for the project. The
mission will have to do selective checking at local levels to ensure that
project drugs and supplies are appropriately distributed and in use.
Monitoring at the local level of the detailed implementation of the
Tuberculosis Policy Package and the Schistosomlasis Policy Statement will be
the main focus of supervisory activities, with a strong element of technical
assistance and problem-solving input by the mission to assist the project
staff in the early years.
2.        In addition, for the first two years of the project, management of
the Special Account by the Ministry of Finance should receive attention from
Loan Department staff on their visits to China as there is little experience
in MOF in handling such a large, diversified Special Account and disbursements
for this project will accelerate rapidly. Poor management of the Special
Account would put all project objectives at risk because suppliers will not
deliver critical drugs if slow or confused payment practices begin to emerge.
Delays in drug deliveries would quickly destroy credibility of the new
approaches at the community level.
3.        These supervision needs are in addition to the regular review of
project progress reports (which will be quarterly) and for supervision of
procurement.
4.        WHO Supervision Inputs.  IDA supervision inputs for the
tuberculosis control component will be supplemented by the WHO Global
Tuberculosis Programme (Geneva) which has cooperated actively with the
Association in preparation of the project. The WHO will on occasion join and
provide support to IDA missions (not included in the estimates above), will
undertake project implementation review missions independently with reports of
their findings to IDA, and provide technical support to the MOPH in the
process, especially in designing and supervising implementation of the
research activities. WHO inputs are estimated at 8 staffweeks per year. As
and when the WHO Western Pacific Regional Office is able to join in the
supervisory visits for tuberculosis, they will be welcome to do so as this
will strengthen capacity in the Western Pacific region to disseminate the
experiences emerging from this project.



- 160 -
Annex 16
Page 2 of 3
5.         Supervision of the content and progress of the large program of
operational research on schistosomiasis control will effectively be provided
by the Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases (TDR),
co-sponsored by the WHO, UNDP and World Bank. This agency (located in WHO,
Geneva) will participate in the Joint Research Management Committee
established for the Project and will provide high quality technical assistance
and support to the MOPH while relieving IDA of the time-consuming process of
reviewing the highly technical details of the large research program. An
agreement between MOPH and TDR, satisfactory to IDA, will be concluded early
in 1992 for this purpose.
6.         MOPH Supervision Inputs.  In addition, the MOPH offices responsible
for overseeing implementation of the project have also prepared detailed
supervision plans of their own. The plans include prefaces setting forth
objectives, requirements, supervision targets, membership of missions, and
supervision activities to convey an understanding of the supervision process
to staff in participating provinces so that they can cooperate effectively
with the MOPH. These plans are in Chinese but a summary translation below
presents the first six months plan of the MOPH Tuberculosis Project Office and
the spring anca fall 1992 supervision plan for the Schistosomiasis Office in
the Department of Endemic Disease Control.
Tuberculosis Component
Summary of Supervision Plan of the Tuberculosis Project Office
January - July. 1992   Ministry of Public Health
APIROXIMATE    ACTIVITY                                     S__LL             STAFF
DATE                                                    REQUIREMENTS       WEERS
(*Month)
lat month*   1. Initiation of project in start-up    Project Management,    4 X 48
Jan-Mar 1992       counties in each province.           TB Control expertit.,
2. Receipt of drugs, equipment, registry and   Epidemiology   4 X 12
record forms.
3. Securing allocation of counterpart funds
from local government.
4. Supervision of case-finding:
a. Subject and mode of case-finding and
arrangement
b. Diagnosis procedure
c. Eamination method
d. Accuracy and stand-ardization of
original records and registry.
e. Supervision of the accuracy of
diagnosis, esp. the quality of sputum
examination.
5. Establishment of training program for
different levels of chemotherapy
anagSement systems, evaluation of their
function.
6. Evaluation of provincial supervision on
lower level institutions.



- 161 -
Annex 16
Page 3 of 3
APPRO%SMATE                                                                        SKILL                       STAFF
gARM                     AAcTvrTY                                          REQUrREMENTS                    WEEKS
(Month)
4th month              1.  Iformation system and epidemiologica.             Project Management,              4 X 6
Apr-Jun 1992               surveillance  and their evaluation                 Epidemiology, and
a. QualLty examination of various                 Statistic analysis
orisatnl records and registry system
b. Assessment of the function of central
registratton
c. Quality assessment of the filling of
the quarterly reports, and targeted
guidance.
2.  Quarterly evaluation of case-flading
a. Implementation of free exminat ion
system
bA The trend and proportion of case
deteotion for now and retreatment swe-r-
positive patients
c, Numbar of detected smear negative
pationts, and assessment on the
complteness of registration
3.  Cheotherapy and cas managemint
a. Implementation of standard
chemotherapy regiams
b. Evaluation of the efficiency of ceas
menagemnt, esp. the superviston quality
of chm therapy by village doctors
d. Cheotherapy regimes for smear
asgative patient (self-paid), and
arrangement for follow-up
4.  Susmary of the first quarter of the
project
Schistosomiasis Component
Summary of Supervision Plan of the Endemic Disease Department
Soring and Fall. 1992   Ministrv of Public Health
APPRoxMATE                              ACS5TY                                       SRILL-_                STAFF
DAS                                                                          RgEOUrEMENS                yxEK
(*Month)
3rd month              Supervision mission I                                 Project Manaemnt,               S X 3
Merch 1992             a.  Project Lmplementation                            Schisto control
-   help the start-up of the project.  Review         expertise,
dissemination of Schisto Policy Statement
- Analyze potential obstacles to the
project Lplementation and propose
solutions
- Review of preparation work on staff,
equipment, drugs and implementation
situation
-   Produce supervision report.
9th month              Supervision mission 2                                 Project Management,             8 X 3
Sept. 1992             a.  Project implementation                            expertise on schisto
-   verify.reliability and accuracy of data           control, Health education
collected during project implementation
-   supervise the compliance wLth technical
strategy
-   Identify problems and propose solutions
-   Produce a supervision report



- 162 -
Annex 17
Page 1 of 1
CHIN
INFECTIOUS AND ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File
1.   Detailed Project Costs and Financing Tables
Volume I  - Total Project Costs
Central Component Detailed Tables
Volume II  -  (Part 1 of 2)
Section I - A. Bank Ground Data and Basis for Calculation of
Provincial Tuberculosis Budgets
B. Detailed Technical Note on Estimation of
Tuberculosis Incidence
Section II - Detailed Cost Tables for Tuberculosis Provinces
Volume III - Schistosomiasis Component Detailed Costs
2.   Guidelines for Training Activities -- Training of Supervisors and
Tuberculosis Dispensary Directors



