Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2317 CHA
(Infectious and Endemic Disease Control Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 23, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2317 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 1991, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Association have participated 
together in the appraisal of the Project and have agreed that WHO will continue to 
provide, at the invitation of the
Association, technical review of implementation of Part A of the Project which adopts 
the WHO global approach to tuberculosis control;
(C)
the Borrower intends to make arrangements with Special Programme for 
Research and Training in Tropical Diseases (TDR) for assistance (the TDR Assistance) 
in carrying out research under Part B.2 (d) (ii) of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the TDR Assistance Arrangements) to be entered 
Page  2
into between the Borrower and TDR; and
(D)
the Project, other than the National Component (hereinafter defined) will 
be carried out by the Provinces of Anhui, Guangdong, Gansu, Hainan, Hebei, 
Heilongjiang, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Jiangsu, Liaoning, Ningxia, Shandong, Sichuan, 
Xinjiang, Yunnan and Zhejiang with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available a portion of the proceeds of the Credit 
to each such Province as provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Bank" means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development;
 
(b)
"DEDC" means the Department of Endemic Disease Control of MOPH;
 
(c)
"FLO" means the Foreign Loan Office of MOPH;
 
(d)
"MOPH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Health;
 
(e)
"National Component" means Parts A.2 (a), A.2 (d)(i), B.2 (a)(i), B.2 
(c)(i), B.2 (d)(ii), and C of the Project set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(f)
"PIAs" means the project implementation agreements referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) of this Agreement; "PIA" means any one of such project implementation 
agreements;
(g)
"Project Provinces" means Schistosomiasis Control Provinces and TB 
Control Provinces, as both terms are further defined below; "Project Province" means 
any one of such Project Provinces;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(i)
"Schistosomiasis Control Provinces" means  the Provinces of Anhui, Hubei, 
Hunan, Jiangxi, Jiangsu, Sichuan, Yunnan and Zhejiang;
(j)
"Schistosomiasis Policy Statement" means the statement of policies and 
procedures for carrying out Part B, other than the National Component of the Project, 
provided by the Borrower to the
Association;
(k)
"TB" means bacillary pulmonary tuberculosis caused by mycobacterium 
tuberculosis;
(l)
"TB Control Provinces" means  the Provinces of Guangdong, Gansu, Hainan, 
Hebei, Heilongjiang, Hubei, Hunan, Liaoning, Ningxia, Shandong, Sichuan and Xinjiang;
(m)
"TB Policy Package" means the statement setting forth a package of 
policies, procedures for implementation of such policies, and reporting requirements 
Page  3
and formats for purposes of carrying out
Part A, other than the National Component, of the Project, provided by the Borrower to 
the Association;
(n)
"TCC" means the Tuberculosis Control Center of MOPH; and
 
(o)
"TPO" means the Tuberculosis Project Office established under the 
Division of Chronic Infectious Diseases of the Department of Epidemic Diseases 
Prevention of MOPH.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to
ninety-five million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 95,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time 
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a)
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment 
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
Page  4
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1,
2002 and ending November 1, 2026. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on November 1, 2011 shall be one and one- fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent 
(2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration
by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the  Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out, and cause to be carried out, the National 
Component of the Project 
through MOPH with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate 
public health and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such National 
Component of the Project; and
(ii)
shall cause the TB Control Provinces to carry out Part A of the 
Project and shall 
cause the Schistosomiasis Control Provinces to 
carry out Part B of the Project, 
other than the National 
Component, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate public health and environmental practices, shall take 
or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable Project Provinces 
to carry out the Project, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent 
or interfere with the carrying out of the Project by Project 
Provinces.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in each Project 
Province pursuant to a project implementation agreement, acceptable to the 
Association, to be entered into between the
Borrower and each Project Province, including the terms and conditions set forth in 
Schedule 4, Part B to this Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, fail to enforce, or waive any PIA or 
any provision thereof;
(c)
The Borrower shall make the portion of the proceeds of the Credit 
Page  5
required to carry out the Project (other than the National Component) in each Project 
Province available to such Project
Province on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including those 
terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out and cause to be carried
out the National Component of the Project, and shall cause the Project Provinces to 
carry out the Project (other than the National Component), all in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the National Component of the Project 
shall be carried out by the Borrower and the Project Provinces through PIAs in respect 
of the remaining Parts of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain,  and cause the Project Provinces 
to maintain, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower and Project Provinces 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account or payment out of 
the Special Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(i)
that a party to a PIA shall have failed to perform its obligations 
under such PIA, 
including without limitation: (A) failure by a TB 
Control Province to carry out any 
portion of the TB Policy Package; 
and (B) failure by a Schistosomiasis Control 
Province to carry 
out any portion of the Schistosomiasis Policy Statement; and
(ii)
that the TDR Assistance Arrangements shall not have been made by 
June 30, 1992 or 
such later date as the Association may agree.
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Implementation Agreement for each Project Province shall have 
been executed on behalf of the Parties thereto;
and
(b)
the Borrower's State Council shall have approved this Agreement.
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project 
Implementation Agreements provided to the Association pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of 
this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by and executed and delivered on 
behalf of all parties thereto and are legally binding upon the parties in accordance 
with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  7
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing, 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  TB Control under
     Part A of the
Page  8
     Project carried
     out by Project
     Provinces:
     (a) Goods                41,420,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
     (b) Consultants'            520,000        100%
         services and
         overseas training
     (c) Studies                 150,000        65%
(2)  Schistosomiasis
     Control under
     Part B of the
     Project carried
     out by the
     Project Provinces:
     (a) Goods                50,110,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                     other items
                                procured locally
     (b) Consultants'            520,000        100%
         services and
         overseas training
     (c) Studies               1,700,000        65%
(3)  National Component
     of the Project:
     (a) Goods                   520,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
     (b) Consultants'       960,000             100%
         services,
         studies and
         overseas
         training
                                __________
         TOTAL                  95,900,000
                                ==========
Page  9
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 3,700,000, may be 
made in respect of Categories 1 (a), 2 (a) and 3 (a) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after September 30, 1991.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to reduce the risk of tuberculosis 
infection by providing support to the Borrower's national tuberculosis control program 
in selected Provinces; (b) to reduce the prevalence and infection rates of 
schistosomiasis by providing support to the Borrower's national schistosomiasis 
control program in the eight remaining provinces where schistosomiasis is endemic; and 
(c) to strengthen institutional support for infectious and endemic disease programs at 
the provincial and national levels.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Tuberculosis Control
 
1.
Providing support for the provincial tuberculosis programs in the TB Control 
Provinces in accordance with the TB Policy Package through:
(a)
expansion, improvement and free provision of tuberculosis diagnostic 
services at all tuberculosis dispensaries and upgrading the quality of bacteriological 
services at provincial and prefecture levels;
(b)
provision of free short-course chemotherapy and other treatment services 
in order to achieve high cure rates of: (i) smear positive pulmonary tuberculosis 
patients; and (ii) symptomatic, newly detected smear-negative patients with cavitary 
(cavity-like) or miliary (small, dispersed) lesions;
(c)
improved case management by adoption and implementation of a revised 
standard tuberculosis registry, reporting forms and supervisory protocol.
2.
Institutional strengthening in support of tuberculosis control through:
 
(a)
establishing a national tuberculosis project office and a tuberculosis 
control center under the direction of the Department of Epidemic Disease Prevention in 
order to strengthen MOPH's infectious disease control capacity, and to formulate, 
supervise and control national tuberculosis control policies to be implemented by the 
TB Control Provinces;
(b)
reorganizing and upgrading the provincial tuberculosis control programs 
by restructuring and strengthening provincial-level tuberculosis dispensaries and 
units under the Epidemic Prevention
Division of the Public Health Bureau of each TB Control Province;
(c)
implementing the TB Policy Package of administrative, technical and 
financial reforms to improve the financing and management systems of tuberculosis 
dispensaries and units in TB Control
Provinces; and
Page  10
(d)
undertaking operational research (i) at the national level, and (ii) at 
the  Provincial-level into managerial, economic, social and epidemiological factors to 
improve tuberculosis control and prepare further health programs.
Part B:
Schistosomiasis Control and Prevention
 
1.
Providing support for the national schistosomiasis control program in 
Schistosomiasis Control Provinces in accordance with the Schistosomiasis Control 
Policy Statement through:
(a)
case identification and treatment of infected persons through provision 
of chemotherapy;
(b)
case identification and treatment of infected animals; and
 
(c)
snail control through application of molluscicides and environmental 
control.
2.
Institutional strengthening to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the 
national schistosomiasis control program through:
(a)
strengthening of (i) the national division of schistosomiasis control 
within DEDC, and (ii) the provincial-level endemic disease control offices and 
schistosomiasis institutes, in order to
manage the disease control program and to coordinate the design, testing, production 
and dissemination of health education and materials, and staff training programs and 
materials;
(b)
improvement of the schistosomiasis disease surveillance system by 
Schistosomiasis Control Provinces in order to provide DEDC with reliable 
epidemiological data required to adjust and target
schistosomiasis disease control activities;
(c)
improvement of monitoring and evaluation systems for the schistosomiasis 
control program at the (i) national, and (ii) provincial levels;
(d)
carrying out (i) through the provincial-level schistosomiasis control 
program offices and institutes, and (ii) under the direction of a national-level joint 
research management committee, a program of management, economic, social and 
epidemiological studies of schistosomiasis control in different locations in China, 
and the preparation of future disease control programs.
Part C:
Research into Key Infectious Disease Prevention
 
Research into alternatives for controlling and improving disease surveillance of 
other key infectious diseases, including (i) sexually transmitted diseases and human 
immune deficiency virus
surveillance; (ii) epidemiological studies of hepatitis and control of hepatitis B 
virus through immunization; and (iii) preparation of future disease control programs.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
Page  11
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for similar goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more per contract but not 
to exceed the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $5,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be procured: (a) 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association; or (b) in the event of proprietary items and items 
required for standardization, under contracts awarded after direct negotiations with 
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
An initial drug and equipment purchase may be procured under contracts awarded 
before January 31, 1992, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000, on the 
basis of a comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "initial drug and equipment 
purchase" means anti-tuberculosis drugs for Part A of the Project, praziquantel for 
Part B of the Project and 120 microscopes for tuberculosis diagnosis which are 
essential and urgently needed during the start-up phase of Project implementation.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods  estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more and each contract procured under Part C.1 above, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. When 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in 
respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower and Project Provinces in carrying out the 
Page  12
Project, the Borrower and Project Provinces shall employ consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:
Project Management
 
1.
The Borrower shall maintain FLO within MOPH through completion of the Project 
with functions and staffing acceptable to the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain both the TPO and TCC through completion of the 
Project, each with budget, functions and staffing acceptable to the Association.
3.
Without limitation to its other reporting requirements under this Agreement and 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall provide to the Association on a quarterly 
basis, aggregated reports of: (i) the information provided to the Borrower by TB 
Control Provinces as part of the TB Policy Package reporting requirements; and (ii) 
the information provided to the Borrower by Schistosomiasis Control
Provinces as part of the Schistosomiasis Policy Statement.
Part B:
Terms and Conditions for Project Implementation Agreements
 
Each PIA shall contain the following general terms, the PIAs with TB Control 
Provinces shall include the specific terms set forth in paragraph 2 below and the PIAs 
with Schistosomiasis Control
Provinces shall include the specific terms set forth in paragraph 3 below.
1.
General Terms and Conditions for All PIAs.
 
The Borrower shall ensure that each Project Province carries out the Project in 
compliance with the procurement provisions (Schedule 3) and auditing requirements 
(Article IV) of this Agreement.
2.
Specific provisions for TB Control Province PIAs.
 
(a)
Each TB Control Province shall implement the TB Policy Package (which 
shall be attached as an Annex to each PIA), in all its terms and conditions and shall 
maintain its provisions in effect through completion of the Project.
(b)
Each TB Control Province specifically understands that the effectiveness 
of its TB Control program will be compromised if the provisions of the TB Policy 
Package which require the provision of free diagnostic treatment and follow-up 
services are not followed, even in part. Therefore, each TB Control Province agrees 
that it shall take all measures, necessary or appropriate, to ensure compliance with 
such provisions at all subsidiary levels of government and at health institutions 
participating in carrying out the Project.
3.
Specific provisions for Schistosomiasis Control Province PIAs.
 
(a)
Each Schistosomiasis Control Province shall implement the Schistosomiasis 
Policy Statement (which shall be attached as an Annex to each PIA), in all its terms 
and conditions and shall maintain its provisions in effect through completion of the 
Project. 
(b)
Each Schistosomiasis Control Province shall use only niclosamide as an 
acceptable molluscicide in its schistosomiasis control program.
Part C:
Implementation of National Component
 
1.
In order to carry out the National Component, the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Credit available to MOPH on the same terms and conditions as set forth 
Page  13
in Schedule 6, paragraph 1, to this
Agreement.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall establish by June 30, 1992, with functions and 
staffing acceptable to the Association, a joint research management committee (JRMC) 
which, with the assistance of TDR, shall review, approve, monitor and advise on the 
carrying out of research and the implementation of the findings of operational 
research proposed for schistosomiasis control.
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain JRMC through completion of the Project with 
functions and staffing acceptable to the Association.
3.
In carrying out research under Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall by 
October 31 of each year, provide to the Association for its review and comment, a 
detailed proposal of the research to be carried out under the Project during the next 
coming calendar year.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5,800,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  14
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have beensatisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Onlending Arrangements
1.
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit required to carry out the 
Project in each Project Province available to such Province on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Association,
including:
(a)
repayment over a period of twenty years, including a ten year grace 
period, without interest, of amounts made available; and
(b)
payment by the Project Province of: (i) a commitment charge on the 
proceeds of the Credit made available to the Project Province but not yet withdrawn at 
Page  15
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; and (ii) a service charge 
at the rate of one percent (1%) per annum on amounts provided to the Project Province 
out of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn and not yet repaid.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that each Project Province shall make the proceeds of 
the Credit available to subsidiary levels of government and health institutions 
participating in carrying out the
Project on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
