Report No. PID9404
Project Name                     Niger-Public Finance Recovery Credit
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Structural Adjustment Lending
Project ID                       NEPE69568
Implementing Agency              Government of Niger
Ministry of Finance
PID Date                         August 10, 2000
Appraisal/Negotiations Date      August 1-14, 2000
Projected Board Date             September 14, 2000
Country Background
1.     The Niger Government embarked on a comprehensive, medium-term socio-
economic reform program in 1996, seeking to achieve sustainable economic
growth and a decline in poverty, following a decade of economic stagnation and
financial crisis. With regards to public finance management, the program aimed
at confronting long-standing weaknesses such as low fiscal revenue
mobilization, inadequate budget execution practices, low efficiency of
publicly provided services, the non-affordability of the wage bill, and the
poor management and supervision of public enterprises. After achieving some
notable progress, especially between 1997 and early 1999, implementation of
the program was to a large extent put on hold following the Coup d'Etat of
April 1999. The shortfall in external financing subsequent to the coup led to
an outright public finance crisis.
2.     In this context, the democratically elected authorities which took
office in January 2000, have inherited a very difficult fiscal situation,
which is further aggravated by the loss of revenues attributable to the
implementation of the West Africa Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) common
external tariff (CET). The new Government has repeatedly expressed its
commitment to put the reform program back on track, with a particular focus on
public finance management. This commitment was followed by initial steps in
this direction, despite the constraints of tight cash management. First and
foremost, regular payment of salaries was restored, defusing social tensions,
and allowing for the start of the school year which had been postponed delayed
by a teacher strike in 1999. Further measures were adopted to compensate for
the loss incurred with the implementation of the CET, and to restore
discipline in the management of public expenditure. The authorities also
prepared a Budget Law revision which represents a clear improvement vis-a-vis
the initial law adopted by decree in 1999, and lays the foundations for
improved budgetary management for the rest of the year. Finally, the new
Government accelerated the privatization process with the formal launch of an
international tender for the telephone company as well as for two cellular
phone licenses. Despite these promising initial steps, structural challenges
remain numerous on the fiscal revenue side, as well as for expenditure
management.
Project Objectives
3.      Based on the prior actions taken by the newly elected Government of



Niger, the proposed credit is a single-tranche operation which will help
sustain the Government's financial stabilization and fiscal management effort
and compensate for the tariff revenue shortfall caused by the implementation
of the trade liberalization program of the West Africa Economic and Monetary
Union (WAEMU). The proposed credit falls within the framework of the
Government's medium-term development program aimed at stimulating economic
growth and reducing poverty through (i) macroeconomic and fiscal
stabilization, and (ii) structural and sector-wide reforms mainly focusing on
the improvement in the delivery of social services, the promotion of trade and
formal private sector activity, and the development of the rural economy.
4.      Specifically, the credit would target the following areas of reforms in
fiscal management:
- Increase tax revenues: the authorities intend to increase tax collection
efficiency by modernizing tax administration processes, improving
information systems, and by streamlining tax exemptions. Measures will be
adopted to increase revenue collection outside the capital.
- Improve budget preparation and expenditure programming: In the short run,
improved procedures will be adopted for the determination of budget
appropriations which used to be mainly rolled over from one year to the
other without economic or financial analysis (mainly transfers). Medium-
term expenditure budgeting will be introduced at the sector level, in order
to better reconcile macroeconomic programming and the implementation of
sector strategies.
- Improve expenditure management: With respect to cash management and
expenditure regulation, the authorities will revise the budget regulation
and cash management mechanism. As a direct result of improved expenditure
management the Government aims at accumulating no new domestic payment
arrears from FY 2000 onwards. More generally, the expenditure process will
be revised to better serve the objectives of timeliness, transparency and
expenditure control. An action plan to review the mandate and reorganize
the services of the Treasury will be prepared and implemented.
- Strengthen fiscal reporting and expenditure evaluation mechanisms: Access
to the budget management information system will be expanded to all the
active participants in the expenditure process. Capitalizing on the
regularization of budgetary accounts for the period 1997-99, a budget-wide
public expenditure review (PER) will be conducted.
- Establish effective budgetary audit: Budget review laws for 1997 will be
submitted to the National Assembly for the first time since 1982, while the
1997 treasury accounts have been transferred to the State Court's Chamber
of Accounts for the first time since 1986. Accounts for 1998/99 will be
regularized and closed, and the respective budget execution laws and
balances transmitted to the legislative and judicial authorities.
Institutional processes will be restored to ensure long-term sustainability
of ex post budgetary control.
- Revive the domestic arrears settlement process: In anticipation of the
mobilization of supplemental external resources to contribute to the
settlement of domestic arrears, initial measures will focus on (i) the
preparation of a full diagnosis of past experience in this area, (ii) a
comprehensive update of the stock of arrears by year-end 1999, and (iii) a
review of the existing settlement strategy to include all domestic arrears.
- Accelerate structural reforms with direct fiscal impact (civil service
reform, privatization): A recently installed integrated payroll/personnel
database will be fully operational and salaries edited from it. An action
program will be adopted to streamline and reduce allowances.
-2 -



Implementation of the civil service retirement reform will be pursued, and
human resource strategies prioritizing redeployment will be developed for
key agencies, especially in the social sectors. The sale of shares and re-
capitalization of the telecommunications company is expected to be
completed in the coming months. The concessions for the water distribution
company SNE and the power distribution company NIGELEC will have been sold
to the private sector over the coming twelve months.
5.     The credit would be presented to the Board, and the single-tranche
released upon effectiveness. The short-term action plan to be supported by the
credit and its links to the medium-term reform framework will be outlined in a
Letter of Development policy to be prepared by the authorities.
6.     The CAS discussed by the Executive Directors identified three priorities
for IDA support in Niger, namely (i) the development of human capacities inter
alia through expanded and improved delivery of basic social services; (ii) the
improvement in the management of water resources; and (iii) the promotion of
Niger's openness to its external environment, notably through private sector
development. Given the persisting predominance of the State in the Niger's
(formal) economy, and the need to improve Government's role to reach the
objectives laid out above, the CAS further also identifies sound public
finance management as a cross-cutting priority for action. In this regard, the
proposed credit appears to be fully consistent with the CAS, as it will
support the Government in building upon past efforts to enhance transparency,
accountability and efficiency of fiscal management.
Project Costs and Financing
7.      A credit equivalent to US$ 35 million would be disbursed in a single-
tranche, upon effectiveness.
Environmental Impact
8.      No negative environmental impact is expected from the proposed credit.
Poverty Category
9.      Through improved management of public expenditure, the proposed credit
will contribute to poverty reduction by supporting policies designed to
promote broad-based economic growth and increase the availability and quality
of basic social services, such as primary health care and education services.
Contact point            The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 11, 2000.
-3 -



