Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 24445
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-34180; IDA-34181)
ON A CREDIT AND SUPPLEMENTAL
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.9 MILLION (US$ 47 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
PUBLIC FINANCE RECOVERY CREDIT
June 28, 2002
AFPREM GROUP 3
COUNTRY DEPARTMENT 13
AFRICA REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2002)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFA.F)
CFA.F 710 = US$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                     African Development Bank
CAS                       Country Assistance Strategy
CET                       Common External Tariff
DHS                       Demographic Health Survey
ECOWAS                    Economic Community of West African States
ESAF                      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Credit
GDP                       Gross Domestic Product
GNP                       Gross National Product
HDI                       Human Development Index
HIPC                      Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA                       International Development Association
IMF                       International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP                    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
LTU                       Large Taxpayer Unit
MIGA                      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NIGELEC                   Power Generation and Distribution Company
PER                       Public Expenditure Review
PFRC                      Public Finance Reform Credit
PRGF                      Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP                      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSAC                      Public Sector Adjustment Credit
PSI                       Pre-Shipment Inspection
SNE                       National Water Company
SONITEL                  Telecom Company
TIN                       Tax Identification Number
UNDP                      United Nations Development Program
VAT                       Value Added Tax
WAEMU                    West African Economic and Monetary Union
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:  Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager  Cadman Atta Mills
Task Team Leader  Jean-Luc Bemasconi



NIGER
Public Finance Recovery Adjustment Credit
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Perfornance Ratings                                                    I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              13
6. Sustainability                                                                  13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   14
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                  15
9. Partner Comments                                                                16
10. Additional Information                                                        17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             31






Project ID: P069568                                       Project Nanme: Public Finance Recovery Adjustment
Credit
Team Leader: Jean-Luc Bemasconi                           TL Unit: AFTP3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Public Finance Recovery Adjustment Credit      L/C/TF NVumber: IDA-34180;
IDA-34181
County/Department: NIGER                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: BF - Public Financial Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   07/18/2000                             Effective: 10/13/2000         10/13/2000
Appraisal:  08/01/2000                               MTR:
Approval:  09/14/2000                              Closing: 06/30/2001          06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Govemment of Niger/Ministry of Finance
Other Partners:  NA
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager:     Antoinette M. Sayeh                       Hedi Larbi
Sector Manager:      Cadman Atta Mills                         Charles Humphreys
Team Leader at ICR:  Jean-Luc Bemasconi                        Jean-Luc Bernsaconi
ICR Primary Author:  Amadou Ibrahim
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sutstainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
1.     Political, economic and social background: Niger is a vast landlocked country, mainly
desert, where the majority of the population relies on subsistence agriculture in the face of an
average annual rainfall inferior to 400 mm. Social indicators are among the lowest of the world.
According to most recent estimates, life expectancy at birth does not surpass 46 years, illiteracy
(in percent of population aged 15 and above) is believed to be as high as 85 percent, only a third
of school-age children are attending primary school, and infant mortality is 188 per 1,000 live
births. Not surprisingly, economic indicators are just as unfavorable with GNP per capita
estimated to stand at around US$ 200 (World Bank Atlas method) while two-thirds of the
population are believed to live below the poverty line. As a result, Niger ranked 161 st out of 162
countries in terms of human development as measured by UNDP's 2001 Human Development
Index. Prospects for poverty reduction and economic development are constrained by the
vulnerability to exogenous shocks, such as droughts, as well as a limited resource base and low
human development, all resulting in a highly volatile and on average low economic growth rate.
High population growth (around 3.3 percent p.a.) acts as an additional constraint to the impact of
economic and social policies. Moreover, the political and social environment of the last twenty
years has not been conducive to the implementation of sustainable and successful policies. Key
events related to the macroeconomic programs during the last decade are summarized in Table I
below.
Table 1: Key events affecting the Macroeoconomic Programs 1994-2002
EVENT                                          COMMENTS
January 1994                  Approval of the Economic recovery credit following the  See ICR: Report No. 15772
CFA Franc devaluation
January 1996                  First military coup d'etat after the democratic elections of
1993
June 1996                     Conclusion of a three year ESAF program with the Fund
March 1997                    Approval of the Public sector Adjustment Credit  See ICR: Report No 18382
October 1998                 Approval of the Public Finance Reform credit      see ICR: Report No. 22453
April 9, 1999                 Second mlitary coup d'etat                       Suspension of external
budgetary support
November-December             Transparent and fair legislative and presidential elections
1999                          held
January 2000                  The new civil cabinet took office                Gradual resumption of
.______________________________________________ budget aid
September 2000                Approval of the Public Finance Reform Credit
December 2000                 Approval of the Supplemental Oil shock credit
December 2000                 Niger reaches the decision point of the Enhanced HIPC
Initiative
December 2000                 Presentation of Niger's I-PRSP to the Boards of the IMF
and the Bank
December 2000                 Conclusion of a three year PRGF program with the Fund
October 2001                  Approval of the Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit
February 2002                 Presentation of Niger's full PRSP to the Boards of the
IMF and the Bank
2.      The new millennium may mark a new beginning for Niger in terms of its economic and
- 2 -



social development policies. The country has emerged from a very difficult decade of the nineties,
characterized by structural economic hardship, recurrent droughts, political instability and social
unrest. During that time, economic and financial performance was generally poor, although
episodes of successful reforms were experienced, which received support from Bank and Fund
operations While the political transition following the 1999 coup turned out to be relatively
smooth as elections were deemed to be fair and democratic, management of public finances by the
military junta during most of 1999 was inadequate, a factor aggravated by the sharp drop in
external financing Niger's budget structurally depends on. As a result, large external and domestic
payment arrears were accumulated, including six months worth of civil service salaries.
3.    The newly elected authorities took decisive actions to restore stability in public finances by
adopting a revised and more realistic budget law, applying strict control over public expenditure,
and attempting to revive the implementation of the structural reform agenda. At the same time,
the government rapidly tried to develop a poverty reduction framework and launched, after only a
couple of months in office, a process for the preparation of the Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). Despite these adjustments, Niger's budgetary policy remained critically
dependant on the resumption of external support, and the authorities rapidly took steps to seek
Fund assistance for the preparation of a new economic and financial program while approaching
the Bank to investigate the possibilities for the mobilization of quick-disbursing adjustment
support in the year 2000. At the same time, and despite the acute need for cash resources, Niger
upheld its sub-Regional commitments in terms of trade reform and the implementation of
WAEMU's Common External Tariff (CET), which was estimated to be associated with a CFA
francs 8 Billion loss in customs revenue, all other things being equal. Room for maneuver in fiscal
policy remained very limited as the delivery of essential public services had been disrupted
throughout the nineties by repeated social unrest and tensions between the public sector trade
unions and Niger's successive governments. These tensions had of course not eased in 1999,
when salaries had not been paid. In that context, regular payment of salaries was an absolute
prerequisite to restore some confidence among the civil service and civil society at large, not only
to ensure delivery of basic social services but also to start building some consensus around
structural and social sector reforms.
4.    To cope with the heritage of what may have been one of the worst budgetary crisis in the
nation's recent history the Nigerien authorities approached the World Bank in early 2000, initially
with the intention of accessing the two undisbursed tranches of the 1998 Public Finance Reform
Credit (PFRC). However, the tranche-release conditions were specific to a domestic arrears
reduction program which had collapsed with the 1999 Coup, and the immediate needs of the
country to support the recovery efforts were deemed to be different, even if the reduction of
domestic payment arrears would remain a priority over the medium-terrn. Consequently, the
government and the Bank agreed that the PFRC would close with its remaining tranches
undisbursed, while a new, single-tranche operation would be prepared on a fast-track basis to
meet immediate financing needs linked to the stabilization efforts and the emerging structural
reform and poverty reduction programs. An additional difficulty lied with the fact that the
formulation and the forrnal conclusion of the new three-year economic and financial program to
be supported by a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility of the IMF would take several months,
potentially delaying Bank support into,2001. But an informal agreement had been reached
- 3 -



between the Fund and the Government in June 2000 on the main fiscal policy objectives for the
year 2000. On the basis of the numerous prior actions taken by the new authorities and after
receiving the necessary assurance from the Fund that the macroeconomic situation was adequate
and that the PRGF program would be concluded shortly, the Bank management requested
exceptional Board approval of the Recovery Credit before the Fund-supported program had been
formally approved. The Recovery Credit was disbursed in October 2000.
5.    In addition, the World Bank decided to provide assistance in late 2000 to several
oil-importing countries in Sub-saharan Africa countries in response to the sudden hike in oil prices
and rise in the US$ exchange rate which led to an additional financing gap for most of these
countries. This support was to take the form of supplemental credits to ongoing adjustment
operations for countries with HIPC decision points in 2000 and with a sound policy framework,
among which Niger. In consequence, the Recovery Credit was supplemented by an additional
support of US$ 12 million, aiming at helping Niger meet its unanticipated increased financing
requirements. This supplemental Credit was disbursed in January 2001 upon effectiveness without
any additional conditions. In the case of Niger, the oil price shock resulted in a larger financing
gap than expected at the time of the preparation of the Public Finance Recovery Credit, with the
cost of f.o.b. petroleum imports having risen rapidly, from CFA Francs 35.8 billion in 1998 to an
estimated CFA Francs 47.6 billion in 2000.
6.    Credit objectives. The main objective of the Recovery Credit, prepared in the context
outlined above, was to support the Government's emerging medium-term development program
which ultimately seeks to stimulate economic growth and reduce poverty through sound
macroeconomic management, as well as structural and sector-wide reforms in the social sectors,
the promotion private sector activity, and the development of the rural economy. For the period
2000-2001, the implementation of this agenda essentially translated into the following objectives
for Bank support: (i) assist the new Government in sustaining its stabilization of the fiscal
situation, and cope with the short-term costs induced by the impact of structural reforms on
budgetary revenues (mainly the tariff reform), (ii) support the finalization of the interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy and the formulation of the subsequent full Strategy; and (iii) help revive the
structural reform program by accompanying the immediate implementation of the most urgent
measures and the articulation of the initial set of measures in the areas of market liberalization,
public expenditure management and social development into a coherent reform program in the
framework of the PRSP. At the time of the Credit's appraisal, such a program was not fully
developed. However, the essential constituting elements were known on the basis of prior
diagnostic work, including that undertaken for the preparation of predecessor IDA adjustment
operation. The programs were formally articulated in a coherent framework during the
preparation of the successor Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit (PEAC approved in
November 2001) and, in the full PRSP presented to the Board of IDA in February 2002.
7.    The objectives of the Recovery Credit were seen as fully consistent with the CAS
approved by the Board in October 1997, which stressed sound public finance management as a
necessary condition for policies to succeed in the three priority areas identified at the time, i.e. (i)
human resources development to address the issue of low labor force low productivity and reform
program implementation weaknesses; (ii) improvement in the management of water resources;
- 4 -



and (iii) promotion of economic openness to international and regional trade. To a large extent,
the development challenges outlined in the CAS remained valid in the course of credit
preparation.
8.    Credit design. This operation was designed from the outset as single-tranche credit for
several reasons. First, it needed to respond to an immediate financing need while fully-fledged
macroeconomic management and structural reform programs were not yet fully formulated, hence
not warranting a multiple tranche, multi-year design. In addition, the credit built upon the lessons
of previous adjustment operations in Niger and throughout the Region, which showed that front
loading initial reforms in the context of a crisis aftermath proved effective. This was supported by
intensive policy dialogue with the new authorities during the Credit's pre-appraisal and appraisal
stages. While recognizing the courageous and effective efforts made by the government to soothe
social tensions, the political environment was still perceived as high risk, further justifying the
single tranche approach. However, in order to address the sustainability concern inherent to a
single-tranche operation focusing on actions taken in one single year, the Credit also identified
key policy actions which would serve as triggers for any successor adjustment support. These
triggers were strictly retained as the key benchmarks for Board circulation of the PEAC in late
2001.
9.     The prior actions taken by the igovernment which justified the support are described in
paragraph 47 of the Recovery Credit's President Report (Report No. P7390). They included such
important measures as:
*     the revision and implementation of a new tariff structure consistent with the WAEMU
guidelines, lowering the average tariff from 22.3 to 12.3 percent;
*     the revision of the budget law ror r Y 2000 based on revenue projections consistent with
revenue collection capacity, and increasing allocations for health and education sectors;
*     taking adequate steps for reducing the Government's excessive utilities and
telecommunication consumption;
*     re-enacting the legislation regulating the civil service retirement and pension regime, and
entering into an agreement with the main federation of trade unions on the implementation
of the reform;
*     giving a new momentum to the privatization process for two major utilities (water
distribution and telephone) by selecting, through a transparent pre-qualification process,
potential private sector investors, and formally inviting such investors to submit bids;
*     adopting a series of administrative measures to reinstate discipline in budgetary
management focusing on limiting the recourse to exceptional payment procedures, or
undertaking the consolidation work necessary to the orderly closing of yearly public
accounts, starting with a budget review law for FY 1997.
10.   As mentioned above, in order to ensure some continuity and sustainability of the
implementation of the reforn program measures as outlined in the Letter of Development Policy
after the disbursement of the first tranche of the Credit, approval of a new IDA operation would
- 5 -



be triggered by satisfactory achievements in at least the following four program areas:
*     Satisfactory performance in the implementation of the macroeconomic and fiscal program;
*     Continued progress in establishing transparency and accountability in fiscal management as
demonstrated by the completion and submission to the National Assembly of the FY 1998
Budget review law (Loi de reglement);
*     Adoption of a domestic arrears settlement framework agreeable to IDA and other
development partners; and
*     Irreversible progress in the liberalization of the telecommunication sector, as demonstrated
by the acceleration of the privatization of the fixed-line company (SONITEL), and the
awarding of two cellular phone operating licenses to private sector investors.
11.   These triggers were chosen because (i) they responded to policy priorities and were
technically sound; (ii) were politically feasible, albeit perhaps difficult; and (iii) the implementation
of the actions could be sustained by adequate administrative capacity. These actions were thought
to be priorities not only in their own right, but also because they were seen as having positive
"spill-over" effects in terms of imporved transparency and accountability of structural or
administrative processes. For instance, the significance of the privatization of SONITEL was not
only important because of the expected improvement in telecommunication services, but because
it would modify the financial interaction between the State and the former parastatal which would
become much more transparent and exclusively commercial. Similarly, the preparation of the
budget review law is not only imprtant to establish ex post external budgetary control, but it has
also to restore upstream the discipline of orderly closing public accounts which had been lost
throughout the eighties.To follow the same line of argument, it was expected that the arraers
reduction strategy would not only provide a framework for implementation of this highly complex
issue, but would also have a signalling effect that the settlement of these claims would be guided
by the principles of equitable treatment and transparency.
12.   The Recovery Credit was prepared over a period of three months with a valuable technical
support from the IMF's Fiscal Affairs Department and the borrower's own resources (mainly
local expertise in the area of fiscal management financed by the Government own resources).
The operation was rated as high risk, reflecting Niger's short and uneven track record and
fragile political and social environment. Three main risks were identified: (i) political and social
instability; (ii) external financing shortages leading to a recurrence of the financial crisis in 2000;
and (iii) persistent low implementation capacity within Government implementing agencies.
3.2 Revised Objective:
13.   The objectives and design of the credit were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
14.   The operation being a standard structural adjustment credit, it had no specific project
components. It was based on a series of policy actions identified in various policy statements by
the newly elected authorities, which would later be articulted into a formal program reflected in
the I-PRSP and the PRSP. This initial agenda is summarized in the Letter of Development Policy
- 6 -



annexed to the Recovery Credit's President Report. The main elements of the reform package
focused on fiscal and structural reforms and are briefly recalled hereafter (see the Memorandum of
the President for additional details).
15.   Domestic revenue mobilization. In addition to the measures adopted prior to the Credit's
approval, the authorities intended to increase tax collection efficiency by modernizing tax
administration processes, improving information systems, and by streamlining tax exemptions. In
particular, actions have focused on a more effective use of the Taxpayer Identification Number
(TIN), strengthening control capacity especially for the Large Taxpayer Unit (LTU), or expanding
the role and impact of the pre-shipment inspection (PSI) contractor.
16.   Budget preparation and expenditure programming. Envisaged actions in this area were
sequenced in two phases: (i) in the short run, efforts focused on improving the yearly budget
preparation process, in order to improve the consistency of the budget law with the
macroeconomic framework, a link which was often neglected in the past decade, as well as to
improve the allocation process for current outlays which were rolled over on a yearly basis; and
(ii) launch initial work to build a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) and sectoral
expenditure frameworks (SEFs) in the Health and Education sectors following the elaboration of
PERs in these sectors. A related objective was also to prepare a new budget nomenclature,
putting an end to dual budgeting (i.e. integrating the "investment" or project budget into the
general budget).
17.   Budget execution and expenditure management. The authorities intended to revise the
budget regulation and cash management mechanism. As a direct result of improved expenditure
management, the authorities aimed at accumulating no new domestic payment arrears from FY
2000 onwards. More generally, the expenditure would be revised to better serve the objectives of
timeliness, transparency and expenditure control. An action plan to review the mandate and
reorganize the services of the treasury would be implemented on the basis of diagnostic work
done with the support of the Bank and of various IMF/FAD technical assistance missions.
18.   Fiscal Reporting and expenditure evaluation. The potential of recently installed
computerized information systems on budget execution and payroll/personnel management were
to be better exploited. Access to the budget management system was to be expanded to all the
active participants in the expenditure process, including the key upstream and downstream actors
(i.e. spending ministries and the treasury), as well as to the revenue collecting agencies. A link
would also be established between the newly integrated payroll/civil service database, and the
budget information system. Capitalizing on the regularization of budgetary accounts for the
period 1997-99, a budget-wide public expenditure review (PER) was to be undertaken. The
review would also consolidate and expand the existing analytical work on budgetary procedures
and propose concrete recommendations for their rationalization.
19.   External budgetary oversight. The Budget review law (loi de reglement ) for 1997 had
been submitted to the National Assembly for the first time since 1982, while 1997 Treasury
accounts were to be transferred to the Supreme Court's Chamber of Accounts for the first time
since 1986. Accounts for 1998/99 were to be regularized and closed, and the respective budget
- 7 -



execution laws and balances transmitted to the legislative and judicial authorities. Capacity needs
of the National Assembly and the Chamber of Accounts to perform their auditing mandate and
enforce their evaluation, were to be assessed and addressed with the support of development
partners including the World Bank.
20.   Domestic arrears settlement. In anticipation of the mobilization of supplemental external
resources to contribute to the settlement of domestic arrears, initial measures were to focus on (i)
the preparation of a full diagnosis of past experience in this area, (ii) a comprehensive update of
the stock of arrears at year-end 1999, and (iii) a review of the existing settlement strategy to
include all outstanding domestic arrears. The new strategy was intended to propose various
options for arrears settlement, as well as stock reduction projections within a realistic time and
financing framework.
21.   Other structural reforms. Reforms in areas including public administration, privatization,
and market liberalization were envisaged. In particular, the recently installed integrated
payroll/personnel database would be fully operational. An action program would be adopted to
streamline and reduce allowances. Implementation of the civil service retirement reform would be
pursued, and human resource strategies prioritizing redeployment would be developed for key
agencies, especially in the social sectors. The sale of shares and re-capitalization of the
telecommunications company was to be completed shortly while the mobile segment of the sector
would be opened to competition. The concessions for the water distribution company SNE and
the power distribution company NIGELEC would be sold to the private sector by the end of
2001. The petroleum pricing sector would be reformed, including the introduction of a flexible
retail pricing mechanism, and the public company importing and storing petroleum products
would be prepared for privatization.
3.4 Revised Components:
22.   Not applicable.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
23.   The World Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated the credit's quality at entry as
satisfactory overall (rating of 2). All the QAG assessment categories (concept and objectives,
poverty aspects, fiduciary aspects, institutional aspects, implementation arrangements and risk
assessment) were rated satisfactory, except the structural and macroeconomic aspects which
were rated as marginally satisfactory. This latter less favorable rating reflected mainly the QAG
panel's regret about the unorthodox sequencing of the operation vs. the Fund program. While
QAG recognized that moving ahead was probably right, and that preparing a more comprehensive
operation would have delayed Bank support and hence possibly undernined the stabilization
efforts undertaken by the government, the panel also noted that the Bank might have lost an
opportunity to initiate more meaningful action on structural issues. In addition, the absence of a
finalized Fund program did not allow the credit to rely on a well quantified macroeconomic
framework. Finally the panel also regretted the absence of a fully fleshed out structural and social
reform program.
24.   This ICR generally concurs with the assessment by QAG, and would propose an overall
satisfactory rating for quality-at-entry. However, this rating would also apply to the
- 8 -



macroeconomic and structural aspects, of the Credit. While as explained at length in the sections
above, it is probably true that the Credit concept would have gained in quality if the Bank had
waited for the reformn programs to be fully fleshed out, it is also true that these might not have
been formulated in the first place if a financial crisis had recurred. The Fund's comparative
advantage in supporting stabilization efforts is fully recognized, as was stressed by Bank
management during the Board presentation. However, this case was exceptional and, by
definition, demanded a more pragmatic response in the face of Fund constraints in responding
more quickly. In addition, there had been very close collaboration with the IMF's technical and
area departments in the course of the operation's preparation. Structural reforms, while not
articulated in a coherent program, were not absent. They focused mainly on expenditure
management as it was recognized that strengthening the fiduciary framework was not only
important to justify budget support to external partners, but more importantly was seen as a
cross-cutting prerequisite for effective delivery of poverty reduction programs. One weakness of
the preparation process certainly lied in the limited information on the medium-term
macroeconomic framework, beyond the year 2000. This was corrected at the time of the oil-shock
supplemental, when the macroeconomic framework and financing requirements had been
determined over a full program horizon.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievementof objective:
25.   Using the dual perspective of macroeconomic stabilization and economic reforms, the
assessment of the Credit's overall performance is made upon the realization of actions within the
proposed timeframe, as well as the integration of the program's components into a comprehensive
program with sustained subsequent implementation. The fiscal stabilization efforts yielded positive
results in 2000 as evidenced by the satisfactory completion of the IMF PRGFs first and second
review in 2001. Despite lower than expected extemal financing, all the quantitative benchmarks
were met for FY 2000, with the exception of the domestic arrears settlement objective (see
below). Results for FY 2001, which received initial IDA support in the form of the oil shock
supplemental, have also been generally satisfactory on the macroeconomic front. In the area of
structural reforms, progress has been generally satisfactory, although uneven, as tight cash
management claimed most of the authorities' attention in 2000. The government was
nevertheless able to prepare an I-PRSP and rapidly launch thereafter the preparation process for
the full PRSP. Rating: the overall assessment of the Credit's performance in terms of achieving
its objectives is satisfactory.
26.   Macroeconomic stabilization. Real GDP stagnated in 2000 (-1.4 percent) due to the
impact of drought on crops and grew by 7.6 percent in 2001 with the return of favorable rainfall
conditions in 2001 versus target of 4 percent on average over the period 2001-2003. Inflation
targets, in line with WAEMU macroeconomic convergence criteria (below 3 percent) were
slightly overshot: 2.9 and 4.2 percent respectively in 2000 and 2001. The current account deficit
(before grants) increased from 7.8 to 8.2 percent in 2000 and 2001, well below the targets of 10.3
and 10.4 percent. In terms of fiscal outcomes, stabilization efforts proved generally successful.
Budgetary revenue mobilization reached 8.6 and 9.2 percent of GDP for 2000 and 2001
respectively, above program targets. Current expenditure was kept to 11.3 percent and 11.0
percent of GDP respectively, again in line with the objectives of the macroeconomic program. As
-9-



a consequence, the basic budget deficit (before grants and externally funded projects) reached 3.0
and 3.4 percent respectively, still within program targets. Importantly, new domestic arrears were
only temporarily accumulated in 2000, because of delayed disbursements in foreign aid, while they
were altogether avoided in 2001. Moreover, about CFA Francs 34 billion of arrears were cleared
by end-March 2002, including three months of civil service inherited from the 1999 crisis. Rating
: satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
27.   Revenue mobilization. In order to reach revenue targets mentioned above, and despite the
WAEMU tariff reform, administrative measures were taken at the Customs Directorate and the
Internal Tax Directorate. Notably the flow of information between the two Directorates was
improved , facilitating the identification of large tax payers mostly operating in the informal
sector. The TIN database was updated and the collaboration with the PSI contractor extended.
Customs revenue amounted to CFA Francs 58.5 billion in 2000 and CFA Francs 67.6 billion in
2001 while Domestic Tax revenue increased from CFA Francs 44.3 billion in 2000 to 57.3 in
2001 (against respectively CFA Francs 51.4 billion and 48.4 billion in 1999). However, efforts to
streamline tax exemptions have been insufficient. Significant weaknesses remain to be addressed
in order to further enhance the revenue base, including a revision of the exemption regime,
improving VAT management, further strengthening the fight against illegal or fraudulent imports
and improving taxpayer compliance through better communication with the private sector. Rating
: satisfactory.
28.   Budget preparation. The government adopted budget laws in 2000, 2001 and 2002, fully
consistent with the objectives of the macroeconomic program and the orientations of the
I-PRSP/PRSP, especially in the social sectors. In 2001, a corrective Budget Law was prepared for
incorporating resources provided by HIPC initiative and proceeds of the granting of two cellular
licenses. This progress in budget preparation over the two years was one necessary condition for
avoiding the continuous accumulation of new payment arrears. Additional progress is needed in
the determination of certain allocations, especially for some transfers (subsidies and scholarships)
and pensions. Work on the preparation of a new nomenclature integrating the recurrent and
investment budgets progressed significantly in 2001. In the context of the preparation of the full
PRSP, the government initiated work on the determination of the medium-term expenditure
framework and of expenditure envelopes for priority sectors. In parallel, work on the preparation
of a sectoral expenditure framework for the education sector was launched with the support of
the Bank's Fundamental Education Project. Rating: satisfactory.
29.   Budget execution. In 2000, the new Cabinet decided to implement drastic measures to
confront the financial burden it inherited from the former military junta. The Government
implemented early on a strict cash management mechanism, established expenditure priorities,
prioritizing full and timely payment of salaries to regain confidence and credibility with civil
servants and more broadly with civil society and serviced most of external debt. However,
external financing did not reach the expected levels thus generating a temporary accumulation of
new domestic arrears in 2000 ( CFA Francs 3.6 billion or 0.3 percent of GDP), significantly below
had been accumulated in 1999 (an estimated CFA francs 23.6 billion). Claims outstanding from
FY 2000 have since been reduced to CFAF francs 0.2 billion. Rather sophisticated institutional
arrangements meant to be established for cash management failed to function and reliance on cash
-10 -



rationing could not be avoided. Rating: marginally satisfactory.
30.   Fiscal reporting and expenditure evaluation. Work on establishing an integrated Financial
Management Information System (FMIS) during the course of the Credit, has progressed, albeit
at a slower pace than expected. Interesting features of the FMIS process is that it focuses on
building a small-scale system with modem technology, relying heavily on end-user input and uses
available local expertise cost-effectively. A major issue remains the quality of the accounting data
and its timely reconciliation with accrual data (commnitments). Tangible progress on that front is
further expected in FY 2003, with the introduction of the new budget nomenclature and a chart
of public accounts. In the meantime, Treasury has made significant advances in completing the
technical work on the new chart of accounts in 2001. On other reforms at the Treasury, progress
has picked up in the course of 2001, with the restoration of bookkeeping discipline and more
fundamental work on the reorganization of the Treasury. Work on the comprehensive PER has
been lagging, mainly because it was mutually agreed that the PER would not only look at trends
in allocation and spending but also analyze PEM processes. Another source of delay has been the
effort to involve the European Union and the French Cooperation, two important providers of
budget aid, in the undertaking of collaborative work, with the PER serving as an entry point to
further improve donor cooperation in that area. An inter-ministerial working Group has been
created for the production of the PER, for which terms of reference were prepared and a
timetable established. Rating: satisfactory.
31.   Restoration of external budgetary audit. A chamber of Accounts was created within the
Supreme Court in 1999, and its President and technical support staff appointed. The budget
review laws and duly closed treasury accounts have been submitted to the National Assembly and
the Chamber of Accounts respectively for 1997-2000. The Chamber of Accounts has initiated its
audit work and a first report is expected shortly from the first time in Niger's history. Capacity
shortages in the Chamber as well as in the National Assembly remain an issue, but other donors
(most notably the European Union) have expressed interest in strengthening these institutions.
Rating: satisfactory to highly satisfactory.
32.   Domestic arrears settlement. The authorities created a new body to supervise the
settlement of domestic arrears in May 2000 (Centre Autonome d 'Amortissement de la Dette
Interieure de l'Etat: CAADIE), dismantling a former ad hoc Commission which performed well
on the technical side, but was undermined by institutional disputes and a lack of real commitment
at the highest level to transparent arrears reduction. Nevertheless, the CAADIE was able to build
upon the valuable groundwork accomplished by the ad hoc Commission in terms of the
methodology for verifying the validity of outstanding claims. Also, lessons were learned on the
institutional side and shaped the working arrangements between the CAADIE and the Treasury. A
settlement strategy was formulated in 2001, with a coherent link to the macroeconomic program.
While actual settlements were constrained by the cash shortages of 2000, the program's
implementation picked up substantially in 2001 as noted above. However, the responsibility for
the settlement and monitoring of domestic arrears is still somewhat scattered across institutions,
even though the CAADIE attempts to keep global oversight. Rating: marginally satisfactory.
33.   Acceleration of other structural reforms. The civil service retirement reform was



re-enacted in 2000 after fruitful negotiations with trade unions, and fully implemented
thereafter.The privatization program gained new momentum in end 2000 and 2001 with the
successful divestiture from the urban water distribution company, and the corresponding awarding
of a management contract to a private operator. Two cellular licenses were awarded for a total
amount of CFA Francs 8.4 billion. The privatization of the fixed line operator (SONITEL)
suffered delays, but was ultimately completed in late 2001. The awarding of the concession for
the power distribution company also lagged delays, as much of the privatization agenda in 2001
was captured by the SONITEL transaction. Technical work was nebvertheless accomplished in
the drafting of framework legislation for the power sector, as well as in the preparation of the
investor pre-qualification process. The authorities implemented a new pricing mechanism for
petroleum products based on the principle of transparency, flexibility and automaticity. Although
falling short of full liberalization, this mechanism significantly improved price signaling in the
economy and led to the dismantling of the previous price stabilization mechanism which had
produced hidden subsidies in bad times or unaccounted rents in good times. The policy dialogue
engaged in the context of the supplemental credit helped the completion of this reform. Rating:
satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
34.   Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
35.   Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
36.   Following up on the some positive experiences of the former Public Finance Reform
Credit, the Government decided to fund technical assistance and equipment needs for the
implementation of the fiscal reform program through budgetary resources rather than soliciting a
technical assistance project by the Bank. In addition, it requested resident technical expertise from
the IMF's Fiscal Affairs Department which was granted in 2001 and helped achieve the
intermediate outcomes reported above. The national technical assistance program supported by
the Credit enhanced the capacity of the administration in terms of budget preparation, with the
formulation of a sectoral MTEF (education sector) and the beginning of a MTEF for the whole
budget in the context of the preparation of the PRSP. Staff (mainly within Ministry of Finance)
also received effective training on budget management information systems. Perhaps the most
significant institutuonal impact of the program underpinning the Recovery Credit has been the
effective technical collaboration across departments within the Ministry of Finance (Budget
Directorate, Treasury, Internal Tax Directorate, Customs Directorate). Such collaboration was
crucially lacking during much of the nineties and lack thereof was a major obstacle to the
completion of reforms in fiscal management. However, interministerial coordination and
ownership by other line ministries of the reform program remained limited. This aspect was to be
later addressed in the preparation of the PEAC. Also, the institutional impact in some areas of
public finance management remained below expectations, especially with respect to domestic (and
external) debt management. Rating: overall rating for this component remains modest. However,
if the initial progress is sustained throughout the life of the successor PEAC, the Recovery Credit
would have made a contribution to a substantial development impact.
-12 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
37.   The main exogenous factor which affected the implementation and therefore the outcome
of this operation is the shortage of external financing during the period 2000 and 2001, which
resulted in episodes of cash rationing and diverted attention away from structural reform
implementation. Also, the bad crop of 2000, for a second year in a row, increased the pressure on
the 2001 budget, in which food aid allocations had to be increased in a supplementary budget The
hike in petroleum prices, although outside the government's control, was mitigated by the
Recovery Credit's supplemental.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
38.   The level of government commitment to the reform package underpinning the Credit was
generally adequate. In some instances, such as for episoded of the SONITEL privatization or the
establishment of a Cash Management Committee, the commitment was at times not strong
enough. In other areas, such as for the I-PRSP/PRSP preparation, commitment was exceptional if
not best practice. The overall high level of commitment translated into an appropriate ownership
of reforms, as evidenced by the authorities resolve to negotiate difficult reforms with the powerful
trade unions (e.g. retirement reform). Internal coordination within the Ministry of Finance was
more effective than for earlier operations.
39.   Monitoring of the program implementation improved over the life of the Credit. While it
was weak at the beginning, good quality, although irregular, reports were published by the second
half of 2001. The Government's program was designed to be monitored at three levels: (i) an
Inter-Ministerial Committee chaired by the Prime Minister would be responsible for political
clearance and approval; (ii) a Technical Committee would prepare for policy actions proposals
and review implementation progress; and (iii) the Structural Adjustment Monitoring unit in the
Ministry of Finance would prepare regular progress reports. The capacity within the
Administration is scarce but available and there is still scope to further improve the organization
and the division of labor of the different units involved in the program's implementation and
monitoring. As mentioned above, inter-ministerial coordination could have been stronger, and
particular emphasis should be put on the insufficient communication capacity of the Ministry of
Finance as the "champion" institution of the reform program.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
40.   For this adjustment credit, there was no project implementation unit.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
41.   Not applicable.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability ratinig:
42.   The financial stabilization efforts showed encouraging progress over 2000 and 2001.
Salaries have been paid on a regular basis and fiscal management has imnproved. Budgetary
execution became more orderly in 2001, even if external support failed to reach the expected
levels. Fiscal imbalances are better mastered and addressed than in the past. On the structural
reform side, the rhythm of implementation is still uneven but the sequencing of the agenda has
- 13 -



been clarified and there is no fundamental questioning of the major reform milestones, nor was
there reversal of trhe achievements realized under the Credit. Quite to the contrary, subsequent
policy actions have built upon these initial achievements. The main factors affecting the
sustainability of the program remain Niger's vulnerability to exogenous factors such as external
financing shortages and catastrophic climatic conditions. Rating: barring the occurrence of an
adverse exogenous event, the sustainability of the reform program underpinning the Credit is
rated as likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
43.   A two-tranche Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit (PEAC) was approved in November
2001 in an amount of US$ 70 million, in order to further support Niger in the implementation of
its poverty reduction and structural reform program. The PEAC aims at providing timely and
sufficient financing to the Government's program of poverty reduction and economic reform
during the period 2001-2002. This credit was approved upon satisfactory implementation of the
triggers developed in the Recovery Credit, which proved adequate to capture the continuity of the
program. The PEAC could also rely on fleshed out reform programs for which the work on the
Recovery Credit had provided the main building blocks. Following the lessons learned from the
Recovery Credit's preparation, including from the quality at entry assessment, the reform agenda
underpinning the PEAC focused more on social sector reforms in line with I-PRSP/PRSP
priorities.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
44.   Despite an uncertain environment, the Bank task team showed client responsiveness in
rapidly formulating a simple, quick-disbursing single-tranche operation aimed at supporting fiscal
stabilization, while attempting to maximize significant reforms this credit could promote. The
team appraised and negotiated the credit in August after the Government and the IMF reached an
agreement on the macroeconomic framework in June 2000. Mutually agreed prior actions were
fully completed soon thereafter and the Credit was approved and disbursed in September/October
2000, undoubtedly providing a critical contribution to the ongoing stabilization efforts. Triggers
were determined for future adjustment support and a set of performance indicators were defined
for each component of the reform program. While recognizing that some quality was lost due to
the time pressure for the preparation of the Credit, Bank performance at the lending stage is
nevertheless rated satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
45. Bank staff maintained close and continuous policy dialogue with the authorities to help Niger
carry forward its reform program and ensured the consistency of the consultations around the
PRSP (and subsequently the CAS) with the program's objectives. Several supervision missions
were undertaken, and very close collaboration with the Fund area department and fiscal affairs
department pursued, which greatly facilitated the effectiveness of the policy dialogue. Bank
managers and TTL advised regularly on better way to keep the program on track and also
engaged into active consultation with key donors to support the medium term capacity building
efforts arising with the program's implementation.The operation (including the ICR) necessitated
less than 30 staff weeks . The performance of the Bank in supervision is rated satisfactory.
- 14 -



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
46. Rating: the overall performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory.
Borrower'
7.4 Preparation:
47. The authorities rapidly took ownership of challenges which needed to be addressed in the area
of fiscal management and took upfront measures to reverse the backward trends in this area.
Hence, the Government was fully committed to the elements of the future reform program and
higher officials within key ministries were involved in the preparation of this Credit, which greatly
benefited from their contribution. The borrower's performance in the phase of the credit
preparation is therefore rated as satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
48.   While the implementation of the reform program suffered from the initial weaknesses in
monitoring and follow-up on the reform agenda, there were no major policy slippages and the
overall commitment to the reform program remained adequate. The borrower's performance in
the course of implementation is rated satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
49. Not applicable.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
50. Rating: The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
51.   Credit design. One difficulty in me design of adjustment operations relies with the
following potential dilemma. On the one hand, the medium-term policy framework supported by
such operations need to be as comprehensive as possible. Despite the short time available to
prepare the Recovery Credit, this requirement also applied to this case, translating into a fairly
comprehensive Letter of Development Policy as well as a detailed matrix of measures and
implementation benchmarks. The Credit's assessment at entry even suggested that the program
underpinning this single-tranche recovery operation was not comprehensive enough (e.g. by its
limited coverage of social sector reforms). On the other hand, evaluation of past adjustment
operations for Niger and other countries has shown that an abundance of conditionalities have
been a cause of unsatisfactory outcomes. To address this dilemma, the Recovery Credit included
the government's fairly comprehensive agenda (at least with respect to fiscal management reforms
and market reforms) while identifying a very limited number (four) of key triggers chosen
according to specific criteria (see paragraph 11). This design allowed to anchor this single-tranche
operation into a multi-year program, thereby limiting the risk associated with the post-crisis
situation and a fragile political environment while ensuring some degree of sustainability to the
program and its achievements in the first year. Lesson: even in an "emergency" or "recovery"
environment, it is important to anchor adjustment support in a medium-term framework. A few,
critical triggers for subsequent support may provide the basis for such a link.
52.   Collaboration with the IMF. The timing of the Recovery Credit's presentation raised
some concerns at the Board, in the sense that the PRGF program had not yet been formally
- 15 -



concluded and approved. The concerns are fully justified on procedural grounds, but the Bank
took comfort in presenting the operation because the collaboration with the IMF during the
credit's preparation had been very intense. Fund collaboration was sought on two fronts. With
respect to the dialogue with the authorities on the fiscal management reform program, the Credit
benefited greatly from the active involvement of the Fund's Fiscal Affairs Department. Regarding
the macroeconomic framework, the area department of the IMF provided essential input to
provide the necessary assurances that the Recovery Credit was grounded on a sound
macroeconomic basis. This effective collaboration, which went much beyond information
exchange and consultation, was pursued at the supervision stage as well as for the preparation of
the successor Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit. Lesson: There may be occasions were the
Bank must take claculated risk in providing a timely response to client need, but this can only
occur on the basis of close work with the IMF beforehand tand with Fund endorsement.
53. Capacity strengthening. In Niger particularly, weak capacity is seen as a major constraint (and
risk) to successful program implementation. Beyond the need highlighted above to take this
constraint into account when selecting conditionalities or triggers for subsequent support, there
are essentially three options available to address capacity shortages in the overall program: (i) the
Bank prepares a parallel Technical Assistance Credit; (ii) the client, with the support of the Bank
as needed, approaches other donors for the mobilization of technical support; or (iii) the client
sets own resources aside to finance capacity building actions. Given the very short time available
to prepare the Recovery Credit, option (iii) was eventually retained. However, implementation of
the program showed that these alternatives need not be exclusive, but rather that they can be
complementary. For instance, the program and the initial resources set aside by the authorities
allowed the supreme audit institution to begin its work, even if imperfect, on ex post budgetary
control. This in turn provided an incentive for other donors to prepare a more comprehensive
medium-term capacity building program for this particular institution. Ideally, it would be
preferable to identify the capacity building measures and establish such partnerships upfront, but
the activities initiated by the authorities under the Credit nevertheless allowed to pave the way for
improved donor coordination despite the urgency under which the Credit was prepared. Lesson:
even when time does not permit the formulation of a parallel TA operation, there is potential for
capacity building activities through the client's commitment of some of his own resources to that
purpose, even if only to jump start activities in anticipation of subsequent external support.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
54.    Summary of Government report. The full original report by the borrower is reproduced in section
10 below (in French). The government expresses its conviction that the timely disbursement of the
Recovery Credit was instrumental in achieving a successful fiscal stabilization. Strict expenditure control
was not sufficient to compensate for the lack of external financing in 2000 prior to the Credits
disbursement, so that this support not only helped government close its financial program with very limited
arrears, but also helped create an enabling envrionment for the implementation of important structural and
administrative reforms. The govermment's assessment stresses that the Credit therefore supported an
appropriate mix of prudent financial policies and of key reforms retained as prior actions. The Credit
further helped lay the foundations for improved expenditure management.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
- 16-



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
ACHEVEMENT DU CREDIT DE REDRESSEMENT DES FINANCES PUBLIQUES
N03418-NIR
15 septembre 2000-30 juin 2001
Montant initial: 26.5 millions DTS
CREDIT SUPPLEMENTAIRE
Montant: 9.3 millions DTS
NOTE DE BILAN DU 12 JUIN 2002
Contexte
1. Au sortir d'une annee 1999, marquee par une grave crise des finances publiques et avec le retablissement
de la democratie, I'AID a examine favorablement, lors du second semestre 2000, l'octroi d'un credit au
Niger.
2. Dans le but de soutenir la stabilisation de l'economie et le redressement des finances publiques,
I'important deficit de ressources exterieures justifiait cet apport, de meme que l'engagement du
gouvemement du Niger dans un processus qui devait mener A une facilite de reduction de la pauvret6 et de
croissance avec le FMI.
3. La poursuite de Pintegration regionale au sein de l'UEMOA passait par la mise en cuvre du tarif
exterieur commun. Celui-ci, en abaissant les barrieres tarifaires, entrainait une reduction transitoire des
recettes douanieres et compromettait le niveau des ressources intemes.
4. A la fm de l'annee 2000, un montant supplementaire A ce credit a ete accorde. En raison de l'impact de la
hausse des prix du petrole sur la situation budgetaire du Niger, IAID a estime que cette ressource
additionnelle permettrait A l'Etat de maintenir l'equilibre de la filiere de distribution des produits petroliers et
dattenuer son impact sur la balance des paiements. Le gouvemement a egalement initie une reforme de la
- 17 -



structure des prix des carburants et revise les conditions de l'application de la fiscalite petroliere.
5. Le credit n'a pu etre decaisse qu'a la fin de l'annee 2000, rendant plus difficile et plus lente l'execution
des performances attendues mais sans que l'on note des ecarts avec les objectifs retenus. La prolongation
des periodes complementaires dans l'execution des budgets a traduit ce retard dans lPobtention des
ressources et explique certains d6lais dans l'observation des reperes dans le temps.
Objectifs globaux
6. Le contexte de la delivrance du credit de redressement de finances publiques mettait en evidence le besoin
d'une reprise de la croissance economique et de la reduction de la pauvrete.
7. La stabilisation de l'conomie et I'apport de ressources qui contribuait A l'amelioration de la balance des
paiements et de la situation budgetaire se sont inscrits dans une politique d'assainissement des finances
publiques.
8. La reforme des finances publiques trouvait son cadre dans l'assainissement des finances publiques decrit
dans la lettre de politique de developpement des finances publiques du Premier ministre (14 septembre
2000) qui s'attachait A la recherche de progres dans la gestion budgetaire.
9. Les points majeurs arretes pour un redressement des finances publiques etaient les suivants:
-       I'accroissement de I'efficacite de la mobilisation des recettes internes;
-       I'amelioration de la preparation du budget et de la programmation des depenses;
-       I'amelioration de la gestion de la chaine de la depense;
-       I'approfondissement du systeme d'information et d'evaluation budgetaire;
-       la restitution des comptes budgetaires ex-post;
-       la reprise du processus de reglement des arrieres interieurs;
-       l'accel6ration des reformes structurelles favorables au redressement budgetaire;
-       la revision des conditions de retraite des fonctionnaires et la privatisation.
10. L'appui financier de l'AID privilegiait pour ses developpements ulterieurs:
-       des resultats satisfaisants en 2000 et 2001 en matiere de recettes budgetaires;
-       des progres continus dans la transparence et la reddition des comptes, avec en particulier la
presentation A l'assemblee nationale de la loi de reglement de 1'exercice 1998;
- 18 -



-      I'adoption d'un cadre d'apurement des arrieres interieurs en accord avec l'AID et les autres
partenaires au developpement;
-      des avancees dans la liberalisation du secteur des telecommunications, avec en particulier la
privatisation de la SONITEL.
11. Le credit supplementaire de 9.3 millions de DTS est intervenu dans le contexte de la hausse du prix du
baril de brut de 18 US $ en 1999 A 28 US $ en 2000. Le soutien, dans ces circonstances, de l'AID,
permettait de repondre A une hausse de la facture des importations de 12 milliards de FCFA alors que le
cours du dollar americain s'appreciait de 15 % face au franc CFA. II avait pour raison de reduire le deficit
courant de la balance des paiements et d'appuyer le financement par l'Etat de la filiere petroliere, dont le
principal operateur appartient au secteur public.
Objectifs structurels
12. Des objectifs specifiques avaient e  soulignes au sein de l'annexe 2 de l'accord de credit. Ces mesures
decoulaient de l'attendu (B) du preambule de l'accord de credit. 11 s'agissait de cinq sous-ensembles:
(i)    Le suivi des finances publiques et sa traduction legale;
-      L'adoption d'une loi de finances rectificatives pour l'exercice 2000;
-      La regularisation de toutes les avances de fonds publics faites durant l'exercice 2000;
-      La presentation a l'assemblee nationale du projet de loi de reglement de l'exercice 1997;
-      L'application de l'arrete ministeriel en date du 25 novembre 1999 creant un Comite National de
Suivi de la Tresorerie de l'Etat;
(ii)   L'encadrement de certains types de depenses;
-      La reduction des factures d'eau, d'electricite et de telecommunications de l'Etat;
-      Le renouvellement de la promulgation de l'ordonnance N 98-380 fixant le regime de d6part A la
retraite et de pension de la fonction publique et la conclusion d'accords avec les centrales syndicales;
(iii)  La poursuite des reformes fiscales et douanieres;
-      La reduction du tarif douanier maximum en accord avec les exigences du traite de l'UEMOA;
-      L'adoption d'un nouveau regime d'imposition et le passage du taux d'imposition de la TVA, de 18%
A19%; "
(iv)   L'amelioration de la gestion de la depense publique et l'application de sa reglementation;
-      La circulation de l'instruction N 536 du Premier Ministre exigeant de tous les organismes publics
qu'ils executent leurs depenses conformement aux procedures de paiement stipul&es dans fa reglementation
en vigueur;
-      L'adoption de l'arrete ministeriel en date du 20 juillet 2000 portant nomination de contr6leurs
19-



financiers pour suivre les depenses des principaux organismes et entreprises autonomes du secteur public
beneficiant de subventions de l'Etat;
-      L'adoption d'un plan d'action en vue de la reorganisation du Tresor national;
-      L'achevement du rapport d'evaluation de la commission ad hoc de gestion des arrieres interieurs de
I'Etat et sa transmission A l'AID.
(v)    Les privatisations.
-      La creation d'un Fonds d'entretien routier et le transfert des services d'entretien routier au secteur
prive;
-      L'engagement du processus de privatisation de la SONITEL et de la SNE;
-      L'engagement du processus d'attribution de deux licences de telephone cellulaire A des operateurs
prives.
Resultats attendus
13. La remise en ordre des finances publiques, soutenue par les credits de I'AID, visait des resultats
quantitatifs et qualitatifs tres proches de ceux retenus ensuite avec le FMI et les autres partenaires au
developpement. Ainsi, I'amelioration des recettes budgetaires etait inscrite dans le programme
macro-financier 2000-2003 du gouvemement et reposait principalement sur:
-      I'augmentation des recettes internes;
-      le controle de la masse salariale et la maRtrise des consommations de services publics par l'Etat;
-      I'eviction de nouveaux arrieres et le traitement des arrieres interieurs;
-      le processus de liberalisation du secteur des telecommunications.
14. L'utilisation de projets de lois de finances rectificatives, comme l'institution d'un comite de tresorerie,
confortaient la reprise d'un cadre de suivi des finances publiques, en execution comme en programmation.
Les privatisations contribuaient aussi A l'equilibre budgetaire comme a la recherche de prestations
ameliorees. L'ensemble de mesures prevues en (iv) tendait a revenir aux principes de lPorthodoxie dans
l'execution budgetaire comme a la modemisation des administrations financieres pour un meilleur suivi et
une plus grande efficacite.
15. Compte tenu de cet ensemble d'objectifs quantitatifs et qualitatifs, les resultats principaux attendus sur
la periode 2000-2001 etaient:
a)     la progression des recettes fiscales et douanieres, avec une reforme de la fiscalite petroliere;
b)     le respect du plafond de la masse salariale arrete dans le programme du gouvemnement;
c)     la non-accumulation de nouveaux arrieres interieurs A partir de 2000; en particulier pour ce qui
conceme les consommations de services publics, les subventions et les bourses;
- 20 -



d)     la maitrise quantitative et qualitative des depenses;
e)     un'suivi budgetaire ameliore, du point de vue du suivi et de la reddition des comptes;
f)     I'actualisation des donnees sur les arrieres interieurs et de la strategie d'apurement.
Evaluation des resultats globaux
16. Les performances en matiere fiscale et douanieres ont &e conformes aux objectifs contenus dans la
matrice de reformes et dans le programme financier du gouvemement. L'apport supplementaire du credit de
l'AID, suite au surcouit des approvisionnements sur le marche mondial a enclenche une reforme de la
fiscalite petroliere qui est achevee et en application, a la satisfaction des usagers. La privatisation du
secteur des telecommunications a genere des rentrees intemes complementaires appreciables pour l'equilibre
du budget et de la tresorerie de l'Etat.
17. Les depenses de fonctionnement, en particulier la masse salariale, sont restees dans les limites fixees par
le programme en 2000 et 2001, tandis que les ressources de l'initiative PPTE assurait en 2001, le debut
rapide d'un programme de reduction de la pauvrete dont 1'ex6cution a atteint un niveau satisfaisant.
18. Le gouvemement du Niger est parvenu, avec les concours budgetaires exterieurs et une gestion plus
rigoureuse de la chaine de la depense, a eviter l'accumulation de nouveaux arrieres. En effet, les arrieres
interieurs temporaires qui avaient pu se creer ont et resorbes. Le ministre des finances et de l'economie a
presente, en septembre 2001, une situation des arrieres anterieurs a 2000, a partir de laquelle se dessinaient
les orientations de leur reduction dans un plan coordonne. Cet exercice a e cormplete par une actualisation
des donnees et des objectifs en juin 2002.
19. Le suivi budgetaire consider& sous ses dimensions de programmation, d'execution et de compte-rendu de
1'execution a ete ameliore. On peut noter en particulier:
-      les lois de reglement;
-      le rapprochement des situations de credit et des balances du Tresor;
-      la formation a la progranmmation des depenses a moyen terme;
-      les revues sectorielles de depenses publiques;
-      les travaux preparatoires de reforme de la nomenclature budgetaire et du plan comptable;
-      la conception d'un suivi informatique des finances publiques integre, efficace, et modemise;
-      I'adaptation de ce suivi aux prochains cadres renoves de la nomenclature budgetaire et du plan
comptable.
-21 -



20. Le solde budgetaire et le compte courant de la balance des paiements ont pu etre finances par le credit
initial et le credit supplementaire de l'AID, creant un contexte favorable pour satisfaire aux objectifs du
programme financier du gouvemement.
Evaluation des resultats structurels
21. Les mesures de la composante (i) des objectifs structurels, ont et remplies A l'exception de l'application
de l'arrete ministeriel en date du 25 novembre 1999 creant un Comite National de Suivi de la Tresorerie de
l'Etat. Un projet d'un nouveau texte reglementant ce comite de tresorerie a ete elabore. Cependant, un
dispositif de regulation des depenses en fonction des ressources mobilisees (notamment par une situation
trimestrielle des credits liberes) a e  cree. Sa mise en oeuvre a ete relativement satisfaisante, eu egard A la
non-accumulation de nouveaux arrieres.
22. Les mesures dans le domaine de la maitrise de certaines depenses (ii) ont et prises.
23. Les mesures (iii) de poursuite des reformes fiscales et douani&res ont et prises.
24. La composante (iv) d'amelioration de la qualite de la depense publique a enregistre l'adoption etlou
l'application des mesures recensees, en particulier la transmission du rapport d'evaluation de la commission
ad hoc de gestion des arrieres interieurs de l'Etat. L'audit du Tresor national a permis a cette administration
de realiser des actions en vue d'une meilleure relation avec la chaine de la depense et de la recette. La
reorganisation des fonctions du Tresor national, en particulier pour le reseau comptable, a fait l'objet d'un
plan de reformes et de reorganisation.
25. Pour la privatisation (v), les resultats sont satisfaisants et il faut noter que le gouvemement a fait plus
qu'engager le processus. En effet l'attribution des licences de telephonie cellulaire et la privatisation de la
SNE et de la SONITEL sont achevees.
Conclusions
26. L'apport de ce credit a permis A la Republique du Niger de reduire son deficit de ressources en 2000 et
- 22 -



2001 et a assure le demarrage de son programme financier comme l'assainissement des finances publiques.
Cette dimension financiere decisive du credit de reforme des finances publiques est completee par les effets
positifs de l'adoption des mesures qu'il prevoyait.
27. Ainsi le niveau des depenses budgetaires de l'exercice 2000 a et revu en baisse dans le cadre de la loi
de finances rectificative adoptee. La traduction dans le TOFE de cette revision de la loi de finances 2000 a
fait l'objet d'un accord interimaire avec le Fmi. Les economies realisees ont porte principalement sur la
masse salariale, a travers la mise a la retraite anticipee de pres de 2 400 fonctionnaires et le depart de pres
de 500 agents du Ministere de l'E-quipement suite au retrait du secteur public des activites d'entretien
routier. Les depenses de biens et services ont par ailleurs beneficie des mesures d'economie en matiere de
consommation de telephone, d'electricite, et d'eau, et ont ete revues en baisse.
28. Les transferts de certaines activites au secteur prive et les privatisations achevees en 2001 ont permis de
conforter les objectifs de finances publiques plus equilibrees et plus saines.
29. Le gouvemement s'est egalement engage, a travers sa lettre de politique de developpement des finances
publiques, a approfondir les reformes en matiere de gestion budgetaire et a respecter le cadre 1lgal de son
execution. Outre l'application des mesures preconisees dans l'annexe 2 du credit, les efforts ont porte sur la
modemisation de la chaine de la depense, tant du point de vue des procedures de gestion que du systeme
d'information utilise.
- 23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
indicatorlMatrb                   Projected in last PSR!           .   Actual/Latest Estimate
.Id  rMtx.                     .r .e
1.      Increase Domestic Revenue
Collection
(a)     Reach Fiscal revenue to GDP
targets:                             FY 2000: 8.6%                        FY 2000 8.6%
FY 2000. 8.2%                        FY 2001:9.6%                         FY 2001: 9.2%
FY 2001: 9.0%
(b)     Increased domestic tax revenue
performance:                         FY 2000: CFA Francs 44.3 bilion      FY 2000: CFA Francs 44.3 bilion
FY 2000: CFA Francs 47.6 bilion      FY 2001: CFA Francs 57.3 billion     FY 2001: CFA Francs 60.3 bilion
FY 2001: CFA Francs 51.2 bilion
(c)     Improved customs tax performance FY 2000: CFA Francs 58.5 bilion  FY 2000: CFA Francs 58.5 bllion
FY 2000: CFA Francs 55.7 billion  .  FY 2001: CFA Francs 67.6 bilion      FY 2001: CFA Francs 64.8 bilion
FY 2001: CFA Francs 59.7 billin
2.      Improve Budget Preparation and
Expenditure Programming              (a) FY 2001 Budgets in line with program
(a)     FY 2001 Budget Law in line with  targets (including PRSP priorities for FY
fiscal program target;               2002);
(b)     Scholarship alocations reviewed  (b) Limited change in scholarship allocations No change vs. last PSR
after eligibility control and revision of  mechanisms for FY 2001;
allocation critera;
(c)     Subsidy allocations based on  (c) Limited implementaton of the
recipients accounts for FY 1999 and budget rationalization in the determination of
proposal for FY 2001;                subsidies in FY 2001;
(d)     FY 2002 budget in line with  (d) FY 2002 Budget in line with program
program targets;                     targets;
(e)     Utility consumption standards are  (e) In FY 200Z utility consumption remains a
determined and determine budget allocations; problem in some ministries, but stringent
measures have been taken (e.g. cut-off in
services) and bills are paid on Ume;
(f)     Reform Budget nomendature in  (fl New budget nomenclature finalized; to be
line with WAEMU guidelines           implemented for the execution of the 2003
budget
3. Improve Managemert and Control of                                      (a) FY 2001: current expenditure,
Budget ExecuMion                                                          commitment basis (in % of GDP, prov.):
11.0%
(a) FY 2000 current expenditure ( in % of  (a) FY 2000:. Current expenditure  (b) Outstanding a9rrears for FY 2000: CFA
GDP): 10.1 percent (commitment basis);  commitment basis (in % of GDP): 11.2%;  Francs 0.2 billion;
(b) Net accumulaton of domestc arrears:  (b) Net accumulabtion of domestic arrears in  (c) Wage bill data
CFA Francs -14.0 billon (-10.4% of current  FY 2000: CFA Francs 3.6 bilion (2.5% of  FY 2000: CFA Francs 51.8 b/lion
expenditures;                        current expenditure);                FY 2001: CFA Francs 50.4 bilion
(c) Respect wage bill targets:       (c) Wage bill:
FY 2000: CFA Francs 51.4 bilion      FY 2000: CFA Francs: 51.8 billion
FY 2001: CFA Francs 49.6 bilion
(a) Fully integrated data available,
4. Strengthen Fiscal Reporting and
Expenditure Evaluation Mechanisms
(a) Regular reporting on accrual and cash
(a) Regular (monthly) fiscal reports including data, but no integrated and fully reconciled
commitment and payment data;         presentation;
(b) 2001 Balance of entry for Treasury charts beBlne of entry has not been fully
of acoounts                ~~~~~~reconciled with outtum of previous year in
of accounts                ~~~~2000;
(c) Integrated budget infomation     (c) Integrated FMIS established in early  (fl Chart of accounts finalized and ready for
system established and functioning   2002;                                adoption.
(d) Start on the PER delayed (expected
- 24 -



(d) completed budget-wide PER
completion: mid-2003);
(f) New chart of accounts prepared and  (f) Nomenclature revisions advanced
harmonized with budget nomenclature  (expeded implementation for the execution of (a) Budget review law for 2000 sent to
the 2003 budget).                    Parliement;
(b) closed accounts for 2000 sent to the
5.      Establish Effective External                                     Chamber of Accourns
Budgetafy AudH
(a) Published budget review laws for 1998,  (a) Budget review laws/Treasury accounts for
1999                                1998-99 submitted
(b) Completed Chamber of Accounts report (b) 2000 aocounts dosed in late 2001
for 1997 Budget                      First audt report expected by mid-2002;
Budget Review Law for 2000 completed in
March 2000
(b) CFA Francs 37.8 billion cleared in FY
6. Implement Domestic Settlement Arrears                                 2001 (including suppiementary settlement
Plan                                                                     period)
(a) new strategy for transparent and  (a) Strategy finalized in September 2001;
financially sustainable settlement of domestic
(b)CFArre r ancs 2  lino d m s care s(b) CFA  Francs  15.3  bilion  of domestic
(b) CFA Francs 25 biflion of domiestic arrears arrearis cleared in FY 2001;
cleared in FY 2001 (or 16.7% of current
expenditure)
7.    Accelerate Structural Reforms
(a) March 2001: two mobile phone licenses  (d) Selecion of the prequalified investors for
(a) The telephone company is brought to the sold to private sector operators; telephone  the power company end June 2001 and
point of sale and the mobBe segment of the  company privatized on December 2001.  process to b finalized by end December
market is liberalzed;                (b) New petroleum pricng system     2001.
(b) Reform bf the petroleum products pricing established (August 2001);
system;                              (c) Water distribution company privatized;
(c) The urban water distribution company is
brought to the point of sale;       (d) Limited progress on the two transactions
(d) The power distribution company and the  (SONIDEP and NIGELEC)
petroleum products distribution company are
brought to the point of sale
Output Indicators:
In4dcatorlMatrix.                 Projected In last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
End of project
- 25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest. Percentage of
Estimate.     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost. By Component           US$ milion    US$ million
Original credit amount                             35.00          35.00            100
Supplemental                                       12.00          12.00           100
Total Baseline Cost                                47.00          47.00
Total Project Costs            47.00          47.00
Total Financing Required             47.00         47.00
-26 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
July 2000                   2    Economists
Appraisal/Negotiation
August 2000                 2    Economists
Supervision
February 2001                2   Economists                         S             S
May-June 2001                2   Economists                         S             S
2   Public Finance Specialists
ICR
February-June               2     Economists                        S             S
2002
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                4.9                         9.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                     8.9                        28.8
Supervision                              13.8                        44.8
ICR                                       1.9                         6.5
Total                                    29.5                        89.9
- 28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
IMacro policies                          O H   *SUOM      ON    O NA
GII Sector Policies                      0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Physical                               0 H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
El Financial                             0 H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Institutional Development              0 H   O SUO M    0 N   0 NA
OI Environmental                         O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social.
F Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM       * N  O NA
GI Gender                          O H  OSUOM       O N   * NA
I Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM       O N   * NA
3 Private sector development             0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
Z Public!sector management               0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
OI Other (Please specify)                0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
- 29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
 Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
X Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
2 Government implemeniation performance             O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
3 Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS      0 U    0 HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS       OU     OHU
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
No specific documents wer prepared for this implementation completion report. The assessment is based on
Bank supervision reports, relevant documents prepared by the Borrower since effectiveness of the credit,
QAG review of the Credit Quality at Entry and regular fiscal and economic reports.
- 31 -



- 32 -












r(-IMAUJIWM
Report No.:        24445
Type:     ICR



