Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7390 NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED PUBLIC FINANCE RECOVERY CREDIT
OF SDR 26.5 MILLION (US$35.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AUGUST 18, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of August 1, 2000)
Currency Unit                CFA Franc
US$ 1.00            =        CFA 725
SDR 1.0             =       US$ 1.31
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                       African Development Bank
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
CET                        Common External Tariff
DHS                        Demographic Health Survey
ECOWAS                     Economic Community of West African States
ESAF                       Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
GNP                        Gross National Product
HDI                        Human Development Index
HIPC                       Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA                        International Development Association
IMF                        International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP                     Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
LTU                        Large Taxpayer Unit
MIGA                       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NIGELEC                    Power Generation and Distribution Company
PER                        Public Expenditure Review
PFRC                       Public Finance Reform Credit
PRGF                       Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
PRSP                       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSAC                       Public Sector Adjustment Credit
PSI                        Pre-shipment Inspection
SNE                        National Water Company
SONITEL                    Telecoms Company
TIN                        Tax Identification Number
UNDP                       United Nations Development Program
VAT                        Value Added Tax
WAEMU                      West African Economic and Monetary Union
Vice President                C. Madavo
Acting Country Director       M. Plessis-Fraissard
Sector Manager                C. Humphreys
Task Team Leader              J-L. Bemasconi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PUBLIC FINANCE RECOVERY CREDIT
Table of Contents
CREDIT SUMMARY
1. INTRODUCTION ..............................................................1...
II. BACKGROUND .I
A. Country context .1
B.  Recent economic and political developments            .4
C.  Medium-term projections andfinancing requirements         .7
III. NIGER'S REFORM PROGRAM                            .9
A. Development challenges                         .9
B.  The growth and poverty reduction strategy to be supported .13
C  Thefiscal management reform agenda .14
IV. THE PROPOSED OPERATION .18
A. Credit rationale and timing.                                              18
B. Link to the CAS andpoverty impact .20
C   Requirementsforfuture adjustment support .21
V. CREDIT FEATURES .21
A.  Credit amount, disbursement procedures and implementation arrangements   21
B. Benefits and risks .22
VI. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER AND COLLABORATION WITH DONORS ... 23
VII. RECOMMENDATION .25
ANNEXES
A.  Social Indicators
B.  Key Economic Indicators
C.  Extrnal Financing Requirements
D.  Status of Bank Group Operations
E.   Supplemental Crdit Data Sheet
F.   Policy Matrix
G.  Niger at a Glance
H.  Letter of Development Policy
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PUBLIC FINANCE RECOVERY CREDIT
Credit Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Niger
Beneficiaries:      Population of Niger
Amount:             IDA Credit:   SDR 26.5 million (US$35.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              IDA Credit:   Standard with 40-year maturity
Description:        The proposed credit is a single-tranche operation which will help sustain
the Government's financial stabilization and fiscal management effort
and compensate for the tariff revenue shortfall caused by the
implementation of the trade liberalization program of the West Africa
Economic and Monetary union (WAEMU). The proposed credit falls
within the framework of the government's medium-term development
program aimed at stimulating economic growth and reducing poverty
through (i) macroeconomic and fiscal stabilization, and (ii) structural and
sector-wide reforms mainly focusing on the improvement in the delivery
of social services, the promotion of trade and formal private sector
activity, and the development of the rural economy.
Benefits:           The proposed credit would provide essential support to the Government
for addressing structural reforms and poverty reduction.  Successful
implementation of the reform program and of the upcoming PRGF
should provide substantial benefits in terms of macroeconomic and
financial stabilization, and the efficiency of fiscal management. The
credit will assist the Government to fiuther reinforce its credibility and
that of the reform program , as well as facilitate consensus building
around the proposed measures. The credit's potential benefits would
outweigh the high level of risk described below.
Risks:              The proposed credit is of high risk. The main risks are (i) political and
social instability; (ii) the incapacity to mobilize sufficient external
resources to satisfactorily resolve the financial crisis in 200; (iii) the
realization of a low-case macroeconomic scenario; and (iv) the
Government's weak implementation capacity.
Estimated
Disbursement:       SDR 26.5 million would be released upon credit effectiveness






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PUBLIC FINANCE RECOVERY CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed Public Finance Recovery Credit to the Republic of Niger for SDR 26.5 million,
the equivalent of US$ 35 million, on standard IDA terms. Based on prior actions taken by
the recently elected Government of Niger, the proposed credit is a single-tranche
operation which will help sustain the Government's financial stabilization and fiscal
management effort and compensate for the tariff revenue shortfall caused by the
implementation of the trade liberalization program of the West Africa Economic and
Monetary Union (WAEMU). The proposed credit falls within the framework of the
Government's medium-term development program aimed at stimulating economic
growth and reducing poverty through (i) macroeconomic and fiscal stabilization, and (ii)
structural and sector-wide reforms mainly focusing on the improvement in the delivery of
social services, the promotion of trade and formal private sector activity, and the
development of the rural economy.
II. BACKGROUND
A.   Country context
2.    Niger is a landlocked sahelian country characterized by a very limited natural
resource base, high population growth, and low human development. The country is
extremely vulnerable to external shocks, such as droughts, which take a heavy toll on
economic growth and living standards. Rainfall, averaging less than 400 mm per year
since the 1970's, is erratic and generally insufficient to ensure adequate agricultural
production. Niger's population is estimated at 10.1 million, 80 percent of which live in
rural areas. The combination of rapid population growth, southward migration due to
droughts, and few opportunities for employment outside of agriculture, has put increasing
pressure on limited amounts of arable land, which was reduced by half since 1965. In
terms of geographic distribution, about eighty five percent of Niger's population is
concentrated in a 100-150 kilometers corridor running north of the Nigerian border to the
capital, Niamey. With the encroachment of the Sahara and the downward trend in
rainfall, Niger is perhaps the most vulnerable sahelian country to desertification. Mining
resources are limited to uranium production, from which revenues have been steadily
declining over the past fifteen years or so.
3.    Political background. Niger's post-colonial political history has been
characterized by the strong domination of a single-party state between 1974 and 1991,
followed by a period of instability where attempts to establish a multi-party democracy
were disrupted by social tensions, political feud and two coups d'etat. Since the adoption



2
of the multi-party constitution in 1991, Niger's political landscape has been shaped by
unstable coalition arrangements in the wake of the various national elections held in
1993, 1995, 1996 (partially boycotted) and 1999. The political deadlock, which resulted
from the 1995 election, led to a first coup in 1996. A second coup was staged in 1999,
following the disputed promulgation of local elections results. In December 1999, the
military junta handed power over to a civilian Government, appointed after presidential
and legislative elections had been completed in an orderly fashion, according to the
evaluations of international observers. Over the last decade, the political situation was
further complicated by tense social relations, as the recurrent crisis in public finances
have led to discontent of the powerful trade unions, as well as to student unrest. Waves of
rebellious movements by ethnic groups in the Northern and Eastern part of the country
erupted in the first half of the 1990's. The implementation of a peace accord signed in
1995 has led to a gradual pacification of the rebellion, and most rebels have been
successfully reintegrated into the armed forces, the police or the civil service.
4.    The economy. The growth record of Niger's rural-based and poorly diversified
formal economy is to a large extent determined by factors such as the climatic conditions,
or the level of external assistance. Niger experienced a short-lived period of sustained
growth in the late 1970's, recording double-digit GDP growth rates in some years, when
activity was stimulated by the uranium boom. Between 1983 and 1993, highly volatile
real GDP growth averaged -0.6 percent, as a result of declining demand for uranium, two
severe droughts, the real overvaluation of the currency and other market distortions, as
well as poor management of public finances. This prolonged downturn, coupled with the
persistently high population growth, has been at the center of the country's deteriorating
poverty situation over the last two decades. The CFA Franc devaluation of January 1994
restored some competitiveness to the economy, contributing to reinvigorate economic
growth which reached an annual average of 4.3 percent since the change in parity.
5.    The primary sector (about 40 percent of GDP in 1999) is dominated by rainfed
agriculture, while livestock production accounts for about a third of the value added in
the sector. Of the national actively employed population, 84 percent of men and 97
percent of women are involved in growing crops or raising livestock. agro-pastoral GDP
grew at an annual average rate of only 1.1 percent in real terms in the period 1969-98,
mainly from increasing area under cultivation. This has translated into an annual decline
in per capita agricultural GDP by about two percent, and an increase in the number of
households lacking food security. Unlike other sahelian countries, which have
experienced productivity gains in cereals, yields of Nigerien staples (millet, sorghum) are
low and declining. After increasing dramatically during the uranium boom, the share of
the secondary sector in total production has stagnated around the current level of 18
percent over the past ten years. Long-term growth in the tertiary sector (41 percent of
GDP) has been stagnant, although there has been a moderate pick up since 1995. The
State's share in the formal economy remains important, but has been reduced in recent
years.



3
6.    Early structural reforms. IDA supported economic management and public
sector reform between 1983 and 1993 with four operations (two adjustment credits and
two technical assistance projects). Achievements were limited, although a certain number
of important reforms were implemented in this period with regards to price and trade
liberalization, as well as tax reforms. However, some fundamental issues at the root of
persisting public finances difficulties were not addressed adequately, most notably in the
areas of civil service reform and privatization. Subsequently, the implementation of a
stabilization program aimed at managing the 1994 devaluation was supported by an IDA
economic recovery credit, as well as by an IMF stand-by arrangement. In spite of this, the
program went off-track. Tax revenues reached an all-time low, the nominal wage bill
inflated sharply and the budget deficit rose to 12.8 percent of GDP (excluding grants).
The dialogue on structural reforms was nevertheless maintained and the authorities
prepared a medium-term economic reform program in 1995 which would receive
renewed support from the donor community as described in the section on Recent
Developments (paragraph 11).
7.    Regional integration.  As a member of the West African Economic and
Monetary Union (WAEMU), Niger shares a common currency and a Central Bank with
seven other west-African countries. The CFA Franc has been pegged to the French Franc
since 1948, with one major parity adjustment in 1994 when the currency was devalued by
50 percent in external value terms from CFAF 50 to CFAF 100 per French Franc.
WAEMU membership has also translated into the implementation of trade liberalization
policies, and harmonization of regulations. It should be noted however, that, Niger's main
economic partner within the sub-Region is Nigeria, itself not a member of WAEMU.
Trade and investment flows along the 1,600 km long border between the two countries
are mostly of informal nature.
8.    Poverty and human development. Niger remains one of the least advanced
countries of the world in terms of poverty and social development. With a population
growing at an estimated 3.3 percent per annum, Niger's GDP per capita stood
approximately at US$ 200 in 1999 (World Bank Atlas method). According to UNDP's
2000 Human Development Index (HDI), Niger ranks 173rd out of 174 countries listed.
Niger's social development indicators are the weakest of Sub-Saharan Africa, reflecting a
low life expectancy (47 years), high adult illiteracy (over 90 percent), low primary
enrollment rates (25 percent, or 19 percent for girls), high infant mortality (43 percent),
and severe deficiencies in basic health and nutrition. The burden of poverty and low
social development falls disproportionately on women, whose access to land, credit,
technology and social services remains limited. Labor is the main asset for most of the
Nigerien people, especially the poor, and the low human capital is a major constraint to
socio-economic development.
9.   In 1996, the Nigerien Government published a poverty assessment with the
support of the World Bank, based on a 1993 household income/expenditure survey. The
main poverty determinants identified at the time included large family sizes, lack of
education, deficient diets, low access to basic health services, volatile food security, and



4
inadequate access to arable land and water. The incidence of poverty also showed high
variation between urban and rural areas, as well as between geographic regions. Using
the official poverty threshold (less than a dollar a day in 1993), it was estimated that 63
percent of the population was living below the poverty line, while 34 percent were
considered as extremely destitute. The average growth rate of 3.6 percent recorded
between 1993 and 1999 lies only marginally above population growth (3.3 percent), and
falls well short of the annual 5 to 6 percent estimated to be necessary for a decline in
relative and absolute poverty. There has been no more recent poverty survey conducted to
date.
10.   HIV/AIDS. Although the official prevalence rate of 2 percent is relatively low in
comparison with other sub-Saharan countries, HIV/AIDS is becoming one of the most
important challenges to Niger's development. Recent sentinel surveillance data shows a
marked increase in prevalence among antenatal clinic patients, which has doubled in the
last couple of years, signaling that the epidemic is spreading rapidly. The surveillance
reports also indicate that wide disparities exist among geographical regions. The most
recent cases recorded have concerned people in the 15-29 years age group, especially in
regions subject to important migrational flows. The increase in recorded cases among the
female population and in rural areas is particularly worrisome. Results from the last
Demographic and Health Survey (DHS, 1998) suggest that awareness about the existence
of AIDS is fairly widespread among the general male population and among women
residing in urban centers, but that less than half of the women living in rural areas, and of
those without formal education, had ever heard of HIV/AIDS.
B.   Recent economic and political developments
11.  In response to the prolonged period of economic stagnation and recurrent
financial crisis which had followed the uranium boom, the Niger government embarked
on a comprehensive, medium-term socio-economic reform program in 1996, seeking to
achieve sustainable economic growth and a decline in poverty. Policies were meant to
improve fiscal management, increase the efficiency of social services and public
investment, promote private sector development, support rural development and
accelerate administrative reform. More specifically with regards to public finance
management, the reform program aimed at addressing structural weaknesses such as low
revenue mobilization, inadequate budget execution practices, low efficiency of publicly
provided services, the non-affordability of the wage bill, and the poor management and
supervision of public enterprises. The program received support from the international
community, starting with a three-year ESAF arrangement, approved in June 1996, and an
IDA one-tranche Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC, Cr. 2939-NIR), approved by
the Board in February 1997. Following satisfactory progress in the first years of the
implementation of the program, as evidenced by the successful completion of two ESAF
mid-term reviews and the positive evaluation of the PSAC, the program received further
support from IDA in the form of a three-tranche Public Finance Reform Credit (Reform
Credit, Cr. 31340-NIR), approved in October 1998, and for which the first tranche was



S
released upon effectiveness. Macroeconomic stability was restored and some important
structural reforms launched, mainly in the areas of fiscal management, civil service
reform and privatization (see Box 1).
Box 1: Achievements of the structural reform program 1996-98
Between 1996 and 1998, progress realized with the support of the two IDA adjustment operations
(PSAC, PFRC) mainly concerned the following areas of reform:
*  revenue collection: the improved performance observed between 1996 and 1998 (tax
revenue-to-GDP ratio increased from 6.6 percent in 1995 to 8.1 percent by end 1998) was
largely due to the streamlining of the tax system and initial measures to strengthen tax
administration (inter alia throuh the establishment of a large taxpayer unit, improved
procedures for customs tariff collection, the introduction of a single taxpayer identification
number, stricter monitoring and control of taxpayer compliance).
*  public expenditure management : refonns have focused on restoring discipline at the
execution stage, yielding some results like the abolishing of uncontrolled advanced payment
procedures in 1998. Work was also initiated during this time to restore ex post budgetary
control and accountability by regularizing treasury accounts in order to establish closing
Treasury balances and year-end budget execution laws. A functional audit of the Treasury
was completed, and an institutional framework for a comprehensive settlement of domestic
anears was established.
*  efficiency and equity ofpublic expenditure: following the recommendations of a first round of
public expenditure reviews (PERs) in the health and education sectors, the government
initiated a reallocation of non-wage expenditure towards priority sectors for the 1999 Budget
Law, including operation and maintenance spending for basic health and primary education.
*  civil service reform and control of the wage bill: after the adoption of a new salary scale in
1997, firther reforms targeted an update and integration of the civil service and payroll
databases and the reform of the retirement scheme.
*  state enterprise reform and privatization: two public enterprises were successfully sold to
private investors in 1998, and first steps for the State's divestiture from the three major utility
companies (telecommunications, water, electricity) was completed (e.g. adoption of tailored
divestiture strategies, financial audits of the companies). Important measures for the
establishment of an adequate regulatory framework were adopted in 1999 (framework
legislation for telecommtmications and water, creation of a multi-sector regulatory
supervision agency).
12.   This initial period of generally satisfactory reforms was abruptly halted by a
violent coup d'etat in April 1999, which led to the immediate suspension of important
cooperation programs. The subsequent shortfall in external financing exacerbated the
effects of remaining weaknesses in fiscal management, and triggered a major public
finance crisis, jeopardizing some of the earlier progress. Increased political uncertainty
following the coup further contributed to a standstill in the implementation of reforms.
While the political agenda of the transition period was completed in an orderly fashion,



6
allowing for the return of democratically-elected civilian authorities at the end of
December 1999, financial management has been extremely problematic. No less than six
months worth of civil service salary arrears were accumulated in during 1999. In
addition, tax collection declined for the first time since 1995, with domestic tax revenues
decreasing to 8.0 percent of GDP. Civil service reform was reversed, when the
implementation of a retirement reform adopted in 1998 was suspended following the
accumulation of salary arrears and the eruption of related social tensions. The
privatization program was maintained through the adoption of some measures related to
the regulatory environment. However implementation of effective State divestiture
suffered delays and was even reversed in the case of the petroleum products imports and
distribution sector.
13.   As a direct consequence of the financial crisis, the two remaining tranches under
IDA's most recent adjustment operation (Reform Credit) were not released, since the
main disbursement conditions could not be met. These conditions centered around the
clearing of domestic arrears which originated in the years 1997 and earlier, and the non-
accumulation of new arrears since 1998. As a result, the PFRC closed with two
undisbursed tranches).
14.  In terms of economic and financial outcomes, the year 1999 was marked by a
decrease in real GDP (-0.7 percent) . This followed strong economic growth in 1998
(10.4 percent), mainly caused by exceptional rainfall and high agricultural production.
Inflation, as measured by the growth of the GDP deflator, decelerated to around 2.0
percent in 1999.. A reduction in exports was more than offset by declining imports,
especially of capital goods, resulting in the slight narrowing of the current account deficit
to 7.4 percent of GDP in 1999 (excluding official transfers). After a steady progression
from 1995 to 1998 when it reached 8.8 percent of GDP, total budgetary revenue
(including non-tax revenue) declined to 8.4 percent in 1999, while total public
expenditure increased to 18.2 percent of GDP (accrual basis). This development is mainly
due to an expansion in material spending towards the end of the year, as well as a slightly
higher wage bill. The overall fiscal deficit (excluding all grants) widened to 9.8 percent
of GDP in 1999, while new domestic and external payment arrears have accumulated by
an estimated CFAF 34.3 billion and CFAF 25.7 billion respectively.
15.  In this context, the newly elected authorities have inherited a very difficult
situation from the lax financial management stance of the transition period. In addition,
the fiscal situation is further aggravated in 2000 by the loss of revenues attributable to the
implementation of the WAEMU common external tariff (CET). The introduction of the
CET and the dismantling of tariff barriers for intra-WAEMU trade is estimated to result
in a gross shortfall of about CFAF 9 billion (US$ 13 million), representing 18 percent of
1999 trade taxes or 0.7 percent of GDP. In addition, the hike in world oil prices translates
in the Nigerien context of administrative pricing, into an additional fiscal burden.
16.   The new Government immediately expressed its commitment to revive and
deepen economic reforms, especially with respect to the management of public resources.



7
Initially, the authorities' efforts focused on tight cash management in order to restore
some credibility among civil servants and the general population. Salaries have been paid
regularly, resulting in an easing of social tensions and the end of a teachers' strike which
was threatening the school year. The Government also prepared a Budget Law revision,
adopted by the National Assembly in May 2000, which represents a clear improvement
vis-a-vis the initial law adopted by decree in late 1999, and lays the foundations for
improved budgetary management for the remainder of the year 2000. The budget revision
also materializes some recommendations of the public expenditure reviews undertaken
for the health and education sectors, with relative budget allocations for these sectors
increasing substantially. In addition, the allocation to budget lines used in past years for
the discretionary and non-transparent settlement of selected domestic arrears, was
eliminated in the new Budget.
17.   With regard to revenue collection, the new authorities adopted several measures
in order to compensate for the loss incurred with the implementation of the CET, such as
an increase in the VAT rate from 18 to 19 percent, a 1% increase in the withholding tax
on imports applied against the corporate income tax, and the increase or introduction of
several excise taxes. Simultaneously, the corporate income tax was reduced, although
only marginally (from 45 to 42.5 percent). Retail petroleum prices were adjusted upwards
by 12 percent in May 2000. Measures were also put in place to break the practice of
discretionary compensation of past claims on the State with current tax dues, which had
seriously complicated cash management in 1999.
18.   Several of the structural reforms for which implementation had slowed down or
even halted in 1999, were revived. These included the re-enactment of the civil service
retirement reform, for which a framework implementation agreement was signed with the
trade union. The new retirement regime is expected to lead to the departure of about 1960
retirees in 2000'. In addition, the Government completed the transfer to the private sector
of public works maintenance operations, translating into the dismantling of the
corresponding unit at the Ministry of Equipment and Infrastructure. Preparatory data
reconciliation work paving the way for the re-establishment of budgetary auditing by the
Legislature and the State Court was accelerated, and a first set of measures adopted to
restore the necessary discipline in government accounting processes. Finally, the
privatization process progressed , with the formal launch of an international tender for the
telephone company (SONITEL), the water distribution company (SNE) as well as for the
attribution of two cellular phone licenses.
C.    Medium-term projections and financing requirements
19. . The proposed medium-term macroeconomic framework assumes continued
implementation of reforms and the resumption of external aid, resulting in an average
The implementation of the measure is not likely to bring about substantial budgetary savings in 2000, as departures
will take place in the latter part of the year, and incur front-loaded compensation for part of the salary arrears.



8
annual growth rate of 3.9 percent for the Nigerien economy over the period 2000-2003.
Increased livestock production, an acceleration in mining and industrial output, as well as
increased trade are expected to support this growth performance. Total investment would
increase by an annual 9.2 percent in real terms, and the investment ratio would rise from
10.2 percent of GDP in 1999 to an average 11.3 percent during 2000-2003. Most of the
investment increase would be financed by external resources. Nevertheless, domestic
savings are expected to increase from 2.6 percent of GDP in 2000 to about 5.1 percent in
2003, mostly as a result of tighter fiscal policy. Consequently, the implementation of
public finance reform will be instrumental to the realization of the projected framework.
A renewed expansion in imports would surpass export growth initially, and lead to a
widening of the current account deficit over the next two years (approaching 9 percent of
GDP). Rising energy prices would increase price pressure in the short term, with the GDP
deflator estimated to grow at 3.5 percent in 2000. However, prudent credit policies by the
monetary authorities should prevent any persistent resurgence of inflation in the longer
run (3.1 percent annual growth between 2001-2003).
20.   This macroeconomic growth scenario lies between the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS)2 baseline scenario (2-3 percent annual growth) and the CAS high-case
scenario (4-5 percent). In terms of comparison with actual realization, the 2000-2003
estimates are below the figures recorded between 1994 and 1998 for real GDP and
investment growth (respectively 4.3 and 17.4 percent on average for 1994 to 1998). The
likelihood and consequences of a less favorable macroeconomic performance are
discussed in the "Benefits and Risks" section below (paragraph 59).
21.   With respect to projected fiscal outcomes, the tax revenue shortfall induced by the
implementation of the CET is expected to be only partially offset by the exceptional
measures adopted by the current Government. Revenues from direct taxes in 2000 are
also adversely affected by the 1999 economic stagnation. Therefore, Government
revenues relative to GDP would decrease moderately from 8.5 percent to 8.1 percent in
2000. Expenditures and net lending would be curtailed by 1.2 percent of GDP in 2000,
thanks to the extremely strict expenditure regulation imposed by the authorities. The
resulting overall budget deficit (accrual) would shrink markedly to CFAF 105.0 billion or
7.9 percent of GDP, after the 9.8 percent gap observed in 1999. Taking into account
scheduled principal payments on external debt and external financing received to date,
the remaining gap to be financed in 2000 (assuming no debt relief), would reach CFAF
46 billion (US$ 66 million, equivalent to 3.5 percent of GDP). This financing
requirement is expected to be covered by identified bilateral and multilateral assistance,
including the proposed public finance recovery operation.
22.  In the medium-term, the proposed macroeconomic framework includes a gradual
reduction of the deficit (7.1 percent of GDP in 2001) which would result from a
persistently tightened control over expenditures, while tax collection performance would
improve progressively. The main challenge to reach this target will be the control over
2 Discussed by Executive Directors in October 1997.



9
the wage bill, and the increase in the tax collection effort. If the scenario materializes, the
requirements for external financing before debt relief would stand at around 3.5 to 4
percent of GDP in 2001. The implementation of a domestic arrears settlement plan would
increase the budgetary resource gap correspondingly.
23.   According to the preliminary findings of a debt sustainability analysis performed
in early 1999, Niger's public external debt at end- 1998 stood at about US$ 1.6 billion, of
which about US$ 128 million worth of arrears to multi-lateral and non-Paris club
creditors. The net present value of this stock of debt represented 335 percent of exports or
53 percent of GDP. About two thirds of outstanding debt was owed to multilateral
creditors, including a 43 percent share vis-a-vis IDA. The latest Paris Club agreement,
signed in December 1996, covering arrears at end-November 1996 and maturities falling
due between December 1996 and June 1999 provided for a 67 percent flow rescheduling
on Naples terms with a present value reduction on eligible maturities of 67 percent. The
agreement expired in June 1999. The Bank and the Fund have collaborated with the
Government to update the preliminary debt sustainability analysis in the framework of
the preparation of a new Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF). A preliminary
HIPC paper for Niger will be presented to the Executive Directors before the end of
2000.
lII. NIGER'S REFORM PROGRAM
A.   Development challenges
24.   As presented in the Country Assistance Strategy discussed by Executive Directors
in October 1997, Niger's main development challenge is to reverse the trend in stagnant
economic growth and the declining living standards of its people. To this end, the Niger
CAS identifies three major constraints on social and economic development to be
addressed: (i) the low level of human capital and related productivity deficit; (ii) the poor
management of scarce natural resources, in particular water; and (iii) the inadequate
economic management and the untapped potential of regional linkages and private sector
development. This development challenge and the related constraints remain largely valid
in the current economic and political context of Niger.
25.   Human development. Among all issues constraining human development and
poverty reduction, rapid population growth represents one of the most difficult issues to
address. Past efforts targeting a reduction in fertility have not yielded the desired results
as the implementation of programs has often been hampered by a lack of consensus on
this issue among the political, social and religious establishment. In  the   education
sector, the challenge to tackle low enrollment rates relates to the "supply" of primary
education (teacher, material and infrastructure shortage) as well as to demand factors,
especially for the children for whom opportunity costs of schooling are perceived to be
high (e.g. rural girls). Niger's poor health status results from the high prevalence of
communicable and parasitic diseases, poor nutrition, inadequate access to safe water and



10
sanitation, and low levels of literacy and education, especially for women. Preventive and
curative health services delivery mechanisms have had only limited success in
responding to these challenges. The most recent DHS survey has shown that health sector
coverage has increased from 32 percent to over 40 percent between 1992 and 1998. But
other results of the survey demonstrate that output and impact indicators like infant
vaccination coverage or child mortality have not improved. In addition, as noted above,
the spread of HIV/AIDS is becoming a major threat to human development.
26.   Natural resource management. Scarcity of water is the primary factor for low
agricultural productivity in the country. Niger has by far the lowest level of annual
internal water resources in the sub-Region. Ninety-nine percent of cultivated lands are
rain-fed, leaving crops and farm incomes highly vulnerable to erratic rainfall and
droughts. The vast majority of farmers who use irrigation techniques do so in ways that
are labor-intensive, waste water, and often cause soil degradation. There is potential for
improvements and expansion of irrigation, which would stimulate the production of high
value crops and off-season supply. Less than one quarter of the potential for irrigation is
currently exploited. Aside from irrigation, the lack of access to clean water is among the
leading causes of poor health in Niger. Less than a third of Nigeriens have such access.
The time devoted by women and girls to gathering and transporting water is a major
constraint on their participation in other economic activities, as well as in literacy and
education programs.
27.   Open economic policies and regional integration. Given Niger's very limited
potential sources of growth beyond the resourcefulness of its people, any significant
improvement in living standards and economic growth will most likely depend on
developments outside its border. Sustained growth across the sub-Region, and especially
in Nigeria and in the WAEMU coastal countries, could represent the most important
opportunity for Niger. Currently, most of the trade with Nigeria is unrecorded, and
policies have not been successful in promoting a favorable business environment for the
development of formal economic activity. Trade liberalization within the framework of
the WAEMU customs union should lead to improved economic efficiency and the
development of export activity in areas where Niger has a comparative advantage (e.g.
livestock, and certain cash crops). Harnonization of economic policies within the
WAEMU as well as the greater ECOWAS area should also reduce market distortions in
the member countries for the mutual benefit of member countries. In order to meet the
regional integration opportunity, Niger will need to accelerate structural reforms which
foster its competitive position, such as the privatization program, public administration
reform, improvement in the legal and judicial environment, or modernization of the
transport and trade infrastructure. In particular, policies should focus at the promotion of
goods and services for which Niger would have a comparative advantage (livestock,
certain cash crops, labor, etc.). There will be short-term costs associated with the
implementation of these policies, starting with the decline in customs revenues linked to
the application of the WAEMU customs union and the CET.



11
28.   With respect to fiscal management front, the long-term challenge to address is
the fundamental mismatch between the limited revenues which can be mobilized, and the
immense needs to be met by public expenditure and investment. As stated in the CAS,
Niger will require external assistance for the foreseeable future to cope with this
challenge. Nevertheless in order to reduce this structural imbalance, more immediate
issues have to be addressed, building upon the initial achievements realized under the
previous adjustment program and the recent measures adopted by the new Government:
(i)  On the revenue side, additional efforts are required, such as the streamlining of
the inefficient petroleum products pricing and taxation system within a revived
sector-wide reform program. Other structural efforts will need to build upon
earlier initiatives, such as the effective use of the taxpayer information
databases, the reduction in the number and scope of tax and duty exemptions,
and the continuing rationalization of tax administration and collection.
(ii) The budget preparation framework remains weak. Allocation for certain current
expenditure items are rolled over from year to the other without adequate
economic analysis (especially transfers). There is no medium-term
programming of expenditure, although initial work has been initiated in this
direction in the health and education sectors.
(iii) Expenditure management has been the focus of most initial reforms in the area
of fiscal policy, but the agenda remains unfinished as a result of the 1999
slippage. Immediate concerns center around the resolution of the financial
crisis, which is further complicated by incomplete and untimely budgetary
information. With an initial 2000 budget law providing inadequate spending and
revenue projections, the backward-looking cash budgeting mechanism adopted
by the new authorities has proved adequate as a short-term solution to the
resource shortage in order to avoid the rapid build-up of arrears. However, this
emergency program may also have favored the temporary emergence of
advance payment practices to cover "urgent" expenditures3, which have been
halted after a few months. The adoption of a budgetary framework consistent
with the current resource mobilization potential of the country has allowed to
review the cash management system. Existing expenditure regulation
mechanisms need to be evaluated in light of their poor performance in 1999. In
addition, there are structural problems with the control over certain
expenditures, starting with the wage bill (see below). Other loopholes in
expenditure management relate to the lack of oversight on expenditures
committed by the largely subsidized state autonomous agencies.
3 It appears that this recent, short-lived re-emergence of anticipated payments differed from the widespread system
abolished in 1998, in that expenditures were subject to budgetary credit availability and had to fit within the cash
envelope remaining after priority expenditure had been served.



12
(iv) Fiscal reporting is generally incomplete and untimely. With the objective to
halt the financial crisis, the new Government has made efforts to improve the
quality and timeliness of data on revenue collection and budget execution. Yet,
reports are not consolidated, and the automated reporting capacity of the
recently installed budget management software remains untapped. Work on
monitoring and evaluation of public expenditure has been initiated in 1998 for
the health and education sector. Two rounds of public expenditure reviews
(PERs) were completed for these sectors, as well as a first PER for the rural
sector in 2000. The analysis needs to be expanded to the overall budget,
including a thorough diagnosis of budget expenditure procedures in effect in
Niger.
(v)  External budget auditing was never fully effective and has even been
discontinued since the mid-1980's. Budget review laws have not been submitted
to the National Assembly since 1982, while Treasury accounts were presented
to the Chamber of Accounts of the State Court for the last time in 1986.
(vi) Despite the establishment of an institutional framework in 1998, the settlement
of domestic payment arrears was left unresolved. Preliminary estimates for the
stock of domestic arrears by year-end 1999, range between CFAF 150 and 190
billion, equivalent to 12-15 percent of GDP, mainly owed to the non-financial
domestic private sector (suppliers, civil servants). These estimates could be
revised downwards once the validity of claims is verified, but salary arrears
alone amount to about CFAF 45 billion. The main disbursement conditions of
the previous IDA adjustment credit centered around the settlement of the pre-
1998 stock of arrears. Given the increase in arrears in 1999, and the short term
priority to be given to fiscal stabilization, a significant settlement of domestic
arrears cannot be envisaged in the framework of the 2000 budget. Nevertheless,
the restoration of the State's fiscal transactions will require the rapid adoption of
an updated settlement strategy agreeable to creditors.
(vii) Finally, the structural reforms directly linked to fiscal policy need to be
reinvigorated and deepened. In particular, civil service reform and the control
over the wage bill pose an important challenge to fiscal sustainability. For the
sake of improved transparency, the new authorities have decided to undertake
re-classifications in order to for the budget revision to reflect actual personnel
costs, and serve as an adequate baseline against which to set realistic
macroeconomic targets. But beyond the welcomed transparency efforts, the
wage bill remains unaffordable with the current level of revenues. Action is
required, especially with regards to the management and streamlining of the
numerous allowances which top up base salaries. With respect to streamlining
the State's stake in the formal economy and fostering a competitive
environment, the privatization program has to be accelerated, and some of the
important transactions completed over the next year or so.



13
B.    The growth and poverty reduction strategy to be supported
29.   The foundations of the new Government medium-term development strategy can
be found in the interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). The preparation of
the I-PRSP is advanced and the paper will be presented to the Executive Directors before
the end of 2000. The overall development objective of the strategy is to restore economic
growth and reduce poverty through (i) macroeconomic and fiscal stabilization, and (ii)
structural and sector-wide reforms primarily geared at the improvement in the delivery of
social services, the promotion of trade and formal private sector activity, and the
development of the rural economy. The attached Letter of Development Policy provides
more details on the fiscal management reform program, and is summarized in the next
section. The proposed framework is fully consistent with the long-term development
issues identified in the CAS. Sound public finance management and rational allocation of
public expenditure are highlighted as an absolute prerequisite for dealing with these long-
term development issues, as well as for mobilizing the external resources needed to cope
with the immediate costs of reforms.
30.   Macroeconomic and financial stabilization. The proposed macroeconomic
framework for 2000-2004 aims at: (i) stabilizing financial imbalances, (ii) the
accelerating economic growth, (iii) strengthening the regional integration and
harmonization process, (iv) enhancing the impact of private and public investment, and
(v) deepening economic liberalization. Immediate and medium-term issues to be
addressed in order to restore and consolidate financial stability are laid out in a fiscal
management reform program detailed in the attached letter of development policy. An
outline of this program is presented below in the next section. In terms of quantified
objectives, the long-term GDP growth target is set at 5.5 percent, while inflation will be
maintained below 3 percent.
31.   Poverty reduction and sector development strategies. The I-PRSP will take
stock of ongoing initiatives at the sector level and spell out related quantified objectives.
In the area of human development, the objectives are to gradually increase enrollment
rates to 45 percent by 2005 and 60 percent by 2010. Girls should represent half the
primary student population by 2010 (vs. the current 39 percent). The overall literacy rate
is targeted to reach 35 percent by 2005. The policies to be adopted in order to reach these
objectives would focus on increasing supply of primary education services in rural areas,
supporting the enrollment of poor children with demand-driven incentives, further
increasing the participation of communities in school management, and promoting
private sector involvement.  The health sector policies will continue to focus on
decentralization of the planning, management and delivery of basic services.
Immunization rates are expected to rise to 60 percent from the current 18 percent by
2005, while access to health facilities would increase to 55 percent. In terms of impact,
the policies target a halving of infant and maternal mortality rates.
32.   The major natural resource management objective to be set forth in the I-PSRP is
the increased access to safe water resources, which should reach 70 percent by 2005.



14
Other rural development objectives aim at ensuring food security, intensification and
diversification of agro-pastoral production, and improved rural credit opportunities.
Infrastructure modernization will rely on the contribution of the private sector in such
sectors as telecommunications, as well as urban water and power supply, through the
completion of the privatization program. To this end, and in order to stimulate the
development of the private sector, the I-PRSP will emphasize the need to strengthen the
legal and judicial environment, and to improve access to capital.
C.   The fiscal management reform agenda
33.   Pursuant to the general development objectives to be laid out in the I-PRSP, the
authorities have prepared a fiscal management reform program to be implemented over
the period 2000-2003, which is described in the attached Letter of Development Policy.
The new Government has expressed its commitment to complete and deepen the fiscal
reform agenda initiated under the previous adjustment program, which focused on
revenue enhancement, the restoration of budgetary orthodoxy and the  improved
efficiency of public expenditure. In terms of fiscal outcomes, the Government expects to
expand budgetary revenues to 9.6 percent of GDP by 2003, while keeping expenditure
under control, especially the wage bill, which should be maintained to 35 percent of total
current expenditure. Consequently, the fiscal deficit (before grants, commitment basis)
would be gradually reduced from the estimated 9.8 percent of GDP in 1999, to 7.9
percent in 2000 and 7.1 percent in 2001. A as result of improved control over
expenditure, the Government will have accumulated no new domestic and external
payment arrears throughout the period. The quality and impact of expenditure will also
progressively be improved. In order to achieve these targets, the proposed fiscal
management reform package focuses on the following seven policy objectives:
*    Increase tax revenues;
*    Improve budget preparation and expenditure programming;
Improve expenditure management;
*    Strengthen fiscal reporting and expenditure evaluation mechanisms;
*    Establish effective budgetary audit;
*    Revive the domestic arrears settlement process;
Accelerate structural reforms with direct fiscal impact (civil service
reform, privatization);
34.   Tax revenues. In order to reach the ambitious quantitative targets mentioned
above, the authorities intend inter alia to exploit the effective use of the taxpayer
identification number (TIN) across tax collecting agencies, and to further streamline the
granting of tax exemptions by reinforced control over their justification. Fraud will be
addressed by tighter oversight procedures, especially at the level of the large taxpayer
unit (LTU), as well as by the enforcement of disciplinary sanctions against fraudulent
customs and tax collection agents. The import verification arrangement with an
international pre-shipment inspection (PSI) company will be further expanded to tax



15
offices at the border posts, and the impact of the data reconciliation process between the
PSI contractor and the customs directorate reinforced. Measures will be adopted to
increase revenue collection outside the capital and in those rural areas where monetary
revenue is generated (especially cash crop production areas close to the border with
Nigeria).
35.   Budget preparation. In the short run, improved procedures will be adopted for
the determination of budget appropriations which used to be mainly rolled over from one
year to the other without economic or financial analysis. Specifically, the allocations of
subsidies to autonomous state agencies will be evaluated on the basis of closed accounts
and budget proposals of the recipient entities, starting with the preparation of the 2001
budget. Similarly, the scholarship allocation mechanism will be reviewed in depth,
including the updating and strict management of the student roster, and a review of the
level of allowances, and the criteria used to grant. Allocations for utility consumption
will be determined on the basis of a full analysis of past consumption trends, a census of
delivery points, and the determination of consumption standards.
36.   Measures will be taken to introduce medium-term expenditure programming at
the sector level, in order to better reconcile macroeconomic programming and the
implementation of sector strategies. Integration of current and investment budget will be
addressed by the preparation of sectoral budget sheets which will describe total
appropriations per sector and discuss public expenditure objectives for the sector over the
medium-term. Also, the preparation or update of sector strategies will include a thorough
evaluation of financial resources needed for implementation.
37.   Expenditure management. With respect to cash management and expenditure
regulation, the authorities will revise the budget regulation and cash management
mechanism. Based on the revised Budget Law allocations [and the macroeconomic
framework agreed to during the PRGF discussions], a system of forward-looking cash
management plans will be established. In the immediate term, an annual plan and rolling
three-months plans will guide expenditure regulation, while preserving the orientations of
the Budget Law. Simultaneously, an evaluation of the existing regulation mechanisms
and their shortcomings observed in 1999, will be undertaken and corrective measures
proposed for the execution of the future budgets. Operational treasury management will
be monitored by a Treasury Committee meeting on a weekly basis. As a direct result of
improved expenditure management the Government will not accumulate new domestic
payment arrears from FY 2000 onwards.
38.   Control over non-wage expenditure items will be reinforced, especially for those
budget items which currently escape the scrutiny of the existing ex ante financial control
system, such as the expenditures committed by subsidized state autonomous agencies. A
plan to streamline the system of "credit delegations"4 will be adopted, in order to simplify
and shorten commitment and recording procedures for these expenditures. Regulated
4 "Credit delegations" relate to expenditure from the central Government budget which are executed at the local level.



16
expenditure ceilings fore the consumption of utility services (telephone, electricity,
water) will continue to be strictly enforced, including the interruption of delivery in the
case of overrun5. More generally, the expenditure process (circuit de la depense) will be
reviewed in depth, and revised to better serve the objectives of timeliness, transparency
and expenditure control.
39.   An action plan to review the mandate and reorganize the services of the Treasury
has been prepared, building upon the recommendations of the functional audit completed
in 1999, as well as on the recommendations of various IMF/FAD technical assistance
missions. Actions will focus on the restoration and strengthening of accounting discipline
such as the compliance to same-day recording of transactions, the reduced use of
suspense accounts for revenue and expenditure accounting, the streamlining and
clarification of the Treasury accounts nomenclature within the framework of the
WAEMU standard government accounting plan, and the generalization of double-entry
accounting. The functional audit will be expanded to cover the network of the Treasury at
the regional and local levels. Medium-term strategic reform of the Treasury system will
center around the transfer of tax collection competence to the Tax Directorate, as well as
increased delegation of the principal accounting responsibilities which are currently
concentrated on the sole Treasurer General.
40.   Fiscal reporting and expenditure evaluation. The potential of recently installed
computerized information systems on budget execution and payroll/personnel
management are not fully exploited. The flexibility of the databases will be taken
advantage of, in order to rationalize budgetary management processes, install built-in
control routines and improve the quality and timeliness of fiscal reporting. Access to the
budget management system will be expanded to all the active participants in the
expenditure process, including the key upstream and downstream actors (i.e. spending
ministries and the Treasury), as well as to the revenue collecting agencies. A link will
also be established between the newly integrated payroll/civil service database, and the
budget information system. Existing ad hoc data reconciliation sessions between the
different agencies of the Ministry of Finance recording budgetary data, will be duly
institutionalized to serve the needs of policy makers. In particular, formal reconciliation
between the budget execution situation (situation de credits, accrual), and the Treasury's
balance sheet (Balance Generale du Tresor, cash) will implemented and resulting
divergences accounted for. A provisional balance of entry for the year 2000 will be
established to ensure realism of the treasury balance sheet.
41.   Capitalizing on the regularization of budgetary accounts for the period 1997-99, a
budget-wide public expenditure review (PER) will be conducted. The review will also
consolidate and expand the existing analytical work on budgetary procedures and propose
concrete recommendations for their rationalization. At the institutional level, the
coordinating anchor for the PER process at the Ministry of Finance will be strengthened
with the aim to maximize the impact of PERs on the budget preparation and the design of
5 With the exception of high priority services such as health facilities.



17
structural reforms. A network of PER practitioners will be formally established across
key ministries. Analysis of prevailing procurement procedures will also be undertaken.
42.   External budgetary audit. The Budget review law (loi de reglement) for 1997
has been submitted to the National Assembly for the first time since 1982, while the 1997
treasury accounts have been transferred to the State Court's Chamber of Accounts for the
first time since 1986. Accounts for 1998/99 will be regularized and closed, and the
respective budget execution laws and balances transmitted to the legislative and judicial
authorities. Institutional processes will be restored to ensure long-term sustainability of
ex post budgetary control. Capacity needs of the National Assembly and the Chamber of
Accounts to perform their auditing mandate and enforce their evaluation, will be assessed
and addressed with the support of development partners including the Bank.
43.   Domestic arrears settlement. In anticipation of the mobilization of supplemental
external resources to contribute to the settlement of domestic arrears, initial measures will
focus on (i) the preparation of a full diagnosis of past experience in this area, (ii) a
comprehensive update of the stock of arrears by year-end 1999, and (iii) a review of the
existing settlement strategy to include all outstanding domestic arrears The new strategy
will propose various options for arrears settlement, as well as stock reduction projections
within a realistic time and financing framework. In the meantime, the Government will
continue to enforce its ban on discretionary (and non-transparent) settlement of arrears.
44.   Civil service reform and wage bill control. The integrated payroll/personnel
database mentioned above, which has been installed with the support of IDA's Reform
Credit, is fully operational and salaries are edited from it since July 2000. All remaining
divergences between the old systems and the new database have been identified and
investigated. The new database will also be exploited for a thorough analysis and clean-
up of the allowance allocation systems. Implementation of the civil service retirement
reform will be pursued, and human resource strategies prioritizing redeployment will be
developed for key agencies, especially in the social sectors. The system of budgetary
positions will be revived and its nomenclature revised, to allow for a more rational
management of civil service. The introduction of a performance-based promotion system
will be explored, inter alia by reviewing lessons learned from neighboring countries
which have recently adopted such a system (Benin, Burkina Faso).
45.   Privatization. The complete sale of shares and re-capitalization  of the
telecommunications company SONITEL is expected to be completed by the first quarter
of 2001. The concession of the water distribution company SNE should be attributed to
the private sector by mid-2001. Divestiture from the power distribution company
NIGELEC is expected to be will have been achieved by the end of next year the latest.
Liberalization of the imports and distribution of petroleum products should also be
completed over the next twelve months, including a reform of the pricing and taxation
scheme.



18
IV. THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A.      Credit rationale and timing
46.    The new Government's urgent need for additional budget financing stems from
the difficult situation inherited after the 1999 crisis, and the revenue shortfall linked with
the implementation of the trade reform foreseen by the WAEMU customs union. Despite
the pressing demands of crisis management, and the slow resumption in foreign
assistance, the new Government took promising initial steps to put the fiscal and
economic reform program back on track. But its ability to pursue reforms, to consolidate
their credibility among civil servants and the general population, and to cope with the
short-term costs associated with reforms critically depends on closing the 2000 budget
gap, which this credit is meant to contribute to . The persistence of Niger's structural
fiscal imbalance and the fact that lasting reforms will require a medium-term approach,
mean that additional IDA support will be needed in future years.
47.    In this context, we propose a single-tranche operation of US$ 35 million that is
based on the key actions taken since December 1999:
i. Revised and implemented a new tariff structure, in accordance with the
requirements of the WAEMU treaty, with the effect of reducing the maximum tariff
rate from 25 to 20 percent, the (non-weighted) average tariff form 22.3 to 12.3
percent, and the statistical tax on imports from 5 to 1 percent6;
ii.  Enacted new  legislation setting forth a new  tax regime and increasing the value
added tax rate in its territory from eighteen (18) to nineteen (19) percent7;
iii. Enacted a revised budget law for FY 2000 based on revenue projections consistent
with its tax collection capacity and increased, under the said budget law, the
budgetary allocations for the health and education sectors8;
iv.  Took adequate steps to reduce the government's utility and telecommunications bill,
including through the enforcement of regulation discontinuing government subsidies
of private utility consumption of public officials9;
6 Ordinance No. 99/65 of December 20, 1999.
7 Law No. 2000-003 of May 2, 2000.
8 In particular, the new 2000 Budget Law includes all-time highs in terms of (i) the share of health allocations in total
current spending (8.2 percent) and of non-wage and non-subsidy health expenditure in total current spending (3.8
percent); (ii) the share of basic education allocations (primary, secondary, literacy) in total current spending (14.1
percent), and the share of non-wage expenditure for primary education in total spending for basic education (13.1
percent). The revised Budget Law also eliminated any allocation to the budget line debited in the past years for the
discretionary settlement of domestic arrears.



19
v. Re-enacted legislation governing the civil service retirement and pension regime',
and enter into an agreement with the main federations of trade unions (Union des
Syndicats de Travailleurs du Niger and Confederation Nationale des Travailleurs)
on the implementation of the reform;
vi. Enacted legislation establishing a Road Maintenance Fund, and transferring road
maintenance operation to private sector operators"1;
vii. Launched the privatization process with respect SONITEL and SNE by selecting,
through a transparent pre-qualification process, potential private sector investors,
and formally inviting such investors to submit bids;
viii. Launched the process of awarding two cellular phone licenses to private operators
by formally inviting private companies, through advertisement in the international
press, to submit bids to that effect;
ix. Adoption of  instructions requiring all government agencies to execute their
expenditures in accordance with the relevant payments procedures in effect in
Niger, and confirming the ban on exceptional payment procedures'2;
x. Regularization of all advance payments of public expenditure which were made
during FY 2000, in accordance with relevant budgetary and Government accounting
rules and standards;
xi. Implementation of the regulation establishing the Treasury Committee (Comite
National de Suivi de la Tresorerie de V'Etat)'3, by making the Committee frilly
operational, and ensuring adequate financial reporting (budget execution reports,
monthly financial plans) to guide expenditure and cash management;
xii. Establishment of   adequate  financial control mechanisms  to  monitor the
expenditures of all autonomous public sector agencies or enterprises that benefit
from government subsidies (Correspondants du Tresor);
xiii. Submission to the National Assembly of a draft Loi de reglement for FY 1997;
9 Decree No 99-363 of August 31, 1999
10 Ordinance No. 98-380 of December 24, 1998
11 Respectively Ordinance No. 99-55 of November 22, 1999, and Decree No. 2000-101 of April 7, 2000.
12 Prime ministerial instruction No. 536, dated May 29, 2000.
13 Ministerial instruction No. 491/MF/RE, dated November 29, 1999.



20
xiv. Adoption of an action plan, for the reorganization of the Treasury Department
(Tresorerie Generale), based on the recommendations of the functional audit
performed in 2000;
xv. Completion of an evaluation report on the work of the former Arrears Settlement
Commnission (Commission ad hoc de Gestion des Arrieres Interieurs de I 'Etat).
B.    Link to the CAS and poverty impact
48.   As mentioned above, the CAS discussed by the Executive Directors in 1997
identifies three priorities for IDA support in Niger, namely (i) the development of human
capacities inter alia through expanded and improved delivery of basic social services; (ii)
the improvement in the management of water resources; and (iii) the promotion of
Niger's openness to its external environment, notably through private sector
development. Given the persisting predominance of State involvement in Niger's
economy, and the need to improve Government's role to reach the objectives laid out
above, the CAS further identifies sound public finance management as a cross-cutting
prerequisite for socio-economic development. A new CAS is scheduled to be presented to
the Executive Directors in the summer of 2001, in close coordination with the preparation
of a full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).
49.   Given Niger's extremely narrow resource base, these priorities were determined
in the perspective of a long-term objective to improve the well-being of the population.
The ultimate goal of absolute poverty reduction, was unlikely to be achieved in the time
frame of the current CAS. Nevertheless, some progress was realized in terms of
intermediate CAS objectives, and policies were generally on track until the 1999 events.
For instance, with respect to the delivery of basic social services, CAS performance
benchmarks improved for several indicators such as gross enrollment rates, textbook and
classroom supply, primary teacher availability or access to health care services. The main
achievements realized since 1998 in the area of fiscal management have been described
earlier. However, these achievements remain fragile and are insufficient for achieving
effective poverty reduction.
50.   The long-term issues raised in the CAS remain therefore valid in the current
political and economic context. Additional efforts are needed to accelerate reforms so
that progress can also be realized in terms of actual impact. The proposed credit is
consistent with the CAS, as it will support the new Government in restoring reform
momentum through the implementation of its medium-term development strategy. In
particular, the credit will support policies designed to increase the efficiency of public
expenditure and promote growth through structural reforms. In addition, the proceeds of
the credit will mitigate costs to the implementation of reforms, such as the shortfall in
tariff revenues subsequent to trade liberalization, or the compensation of salary arrears to
the civil servants subject to the new retirement regime.



21
C.   Requirements for future adjustment support
51.   Decisions on the level of future IDA  support will take into account the
implementation of the measures described in the Letter of Development Policy and the
performance on a number of monitorable indicators in the attached policy matrix. In
particular, performance will be evaluated in terms of (i) keeping the fiscal and
macroeconomic program on track and restoring financial stability; (ii) achieving progress
in public expenditure management and the restoration of budgetary accountability; and
(iii) implementing the structural reforms beyond fiscal management. While the details of
a subsequent adjustment credit will need to be defined with the Nigerien Government in
the coming months, its preparation would be based on the following minimal
requirements:
i. Satisfactory performance in the implementation of the macroeconomic and fiscal
program, as measured by the fiscal targets of the attached policy matrix;
ii. Continued progress in establishing transparency and accountability in fiscal
management as demonstrated by the completion and submission to the National
Assembly of the FY 1998 Budget review law (loi de reglement);
iii. Adoption of a domestic arrears settlement framework agreeable to IDA and other
development partners;
iv. Progress in the liberalization of the telecommunication sector, as demonstrated by
the acceleration of the privatization of the fixed-line company (SONITEL), and the
awarding of two cellular phone operating licenses to private sector investors;
V. CREDIT FEATURES
A.   Credit amount, disbursement procedures and implementation arrangements
52.   Credit amount and tranching. The credit will be disbursed in one tranche in an
amount equivalent to US$ 35 million to be released upon credit effectiveness. The single-
tranche design of the credit is justified on the basis of (i) prior actions taken by the
Government to demonstrate their commitment to designed to put the reform program
back on track, especially with regard to fiscal management; and (ii) the implementation
of the WAEMU trade liberalization agenda and the related shortfall in tax revenues.
53.   Disbursement. Proceeds of the credit will be deposited by IDA in a Central Bank
account at the request of the borrower. If, after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the
credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e. to finance items imported from non-member
countries, or goods and services on the Bank's standard negative list), IDA will require
the Borrower to refund the amount to the Credit Account.



22
54.   Implementation and monitoring. Implementation of the policy program  is
designed to take place at three levels: (i) an Inter-ministerial Committee chaired by the
Prime Minister will be responsible for political clearance and approval ; (ii) a Technical
Committee will prepare policy action proposals and review implementation progress; and
(iii) the Structural Adjustment Monitoring unit in the Ministry of Finance will prepare
regular progress reports. IDA will monitor implementation of the program through the
supervision of this operation, the preparation of a subsequent credit. In addition, IDA
staff will participate to joint missions with the IMF to review progress under the
upcoming Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), and to monitor the
preparation of the full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.
B.    Benefits and risks
55.   In the face of Niger's short and uneven track record in implementing structural
reform programs and persisting potential for political and social tensions, the proposed
credit is of high risk. The main risks are: (i) political and social instability; (ii) the
incapacity to mobilize sufficient external resources to satisfactorily resolve the financial
crisis in 2000; (iii) the realization of a low-case macroeconomic scenario; and (iv) the
Government's weak implementation capacity.
56.   Political and social instability has characterized Niger throughout the 1990's, but
has been especially high in 1999 following the coup d'etat. To a large extent, this risk
factor is the main culprit for the non-completion of the previous IDA adjustment
operation. Prospects for stability have improved following the successful completion of
presidential and parliamentary elections, as well as the orderly handing over of power by
the transition military junta to the newly-elected civilian authorities. The ruling two-party
coalition enjoys a comfortable majority in the National Assembly, and risks of political
volatility appear therefore to be reduced when compared with those arising from the
previous democratically elected Government (1993-1996), which relied on a more fragile
coalition. Nevertheless, the Government's relationship with the powerful trade unions
remains largely antagonistic, and the related potential for social tensions is a source of
concern. Similarly, the situation within the military seems not to have totally settled
down. However, there appears to be a wide understanding of the adverse implications any
reversal in the democratic process would entail.
57.   An agreement was reached between the Nigerien authorities and the IMF staff on
the 2000 budget framework as well as fiscal targets for 2001 and 2002 in the context of
recent discussions concerning a PRGF program. A follow-up IMF mission is planned for
October 2000. On that basis, it is intended that agreement be reached on a policy program
to be supported by PRGF arrangements, which would be presented to the IMF Board in
late 2000. However realization of the agreed budget is subject to the mobilization of
sizable external resources in the short run, to cover the outstanding financing gap for
2000 (around US$ 66 million excluding debt relief). It can be expected that Niger would
be able to quickly mobilize an exceptional level of external financing, as confirmed by
the aid indications received from the various donors contacted. But actual mobilization of



23
these resources will depend upon the rapid conclusion of a full reform program and
delays in the disbursement of budget support could seriously complicate fiscal
management, jeopardizing the sustainability of the initial progress achieved since the
change in Government. This risk can best be mitigated by the continued implementation
of reforms.
58.   The proposed macroeconomic framework relies on optimistic, although plausible,
assumptions. In a low-case scenario, triggered by an exogenous shock (e.g. drought) or
failure to mobilize external resource flows, growth would be insufficient to achieve the
fiscal revenue targets and jeopardize the return to financial stability. The targeted
investment growth could not be reached, and longer-term development prospects would
deteriorate. As for the previous risk, maintaining the reform momentum is be the main
mitigating factor.
59.   Administrative capacity remains weak, both in terms of analytical preparation and
actual implementation of reform measures. Although progress was realized under the
leadership of the new Government, coordination among agencies remains problematic,
even within the same ministry. The Government has committed to allocate part of the
proceeds of the credit to finance technical assistance, inter alia resorting to local
expertise which has proven effective in the past. Further technical assistance will be
provided by programmed Bank economic work (as for the PER process for example).
Also, regular contacts established with involved donors will be deepened with the
objective to meet capacity development needs of specific agencies.
60.   The proposed credit would provide essential support to the new Government for
addressing structural reforms and poverty reduction. Successful implementation of the
reform program and of the upcoming PRGF should provide substantial benefits in terms
of macroeconomic and financial stabilization, and the efficiency of fiscal management.
The credit will assist the Government to further reinforce its credibility and that of the
reform program, as well as facilitate consensus building around the proposed measures.
Without the quick-disbursing financing provided by the credit, the Government current
efforts for stabilization would be severely undermined and the prospects for sustainable
economic and human development weakened. Therefore, the credit's potential benefits
would, in our assessment, outweigh the high level of risk described above.
VI. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER AND COLLABORATION WITH
DONORS
61.   Cumulative World Bank commitments to Niger as of June 30, 2000, amounted to
about US$ 902 million, covering 53 IDA credits since 1964. Eight operations are
currently ongoing. IFC has no outstanding investments in Niger but has recently
conducted missions to identify opportunities in the mining sector. Possible areas of future
involvement could also include investments in privatized enterprises. Niger has not
completed its MIGA membership requirements and is thus not yet eligible for MIGA
coverage.



24
62.   Human development is supported by two ongoing IDA operations. The Basic
Education project (SDR 29.3 million, FY95) is a hybrid project which comprises a sector
reform program designed to promote cost-effective use of public education resources, and
a sector investment component aiming at increasing the supply of primary education
services and infrastructure. An innovative recruitment mechanism for contractual primary
teachers was launched under this operation. The second Health sector project (SDR 27.9
million, FY97) seeks to improve the coverage and quality of basic health services,
especially through decentralization of planning and management capacity, as well as to
increase the availability of essential generic drugs.
63.   Rural development receives the support from a Natural Resource Management
Project (SDR 18.0 million, FY97), which addresses issues such as land tenure, food
security, or environmental management at the level of communities. More than a hundred
community-based environmental management plans have been designed under the
project which also finances their implementation. The Pilot Private Irrigation Project
(SDR 4.6 million, FY1997) is designed to foster the adoption of low-cost technologies
for small-scale irrigation schemes. Finally, an Agro-Pastoral Exports Promotion project
(SDR 7.8 million) was approved by the Executive Directors on June 1s' 2000. The project
will support producers and traders in marketing agro-pastoral products in the sub-Region
and beyond, and hence contribute to the warranted diversification of the Nigerien export
base.
64.   With regard to infrastructure and private sector development, the urban
infrastructure rehabilitation project (SDR 14.5 million, FY98) aims at generating
revenues in urban areas through public works contracted to local firms, and at building
the capacity of municipalities to develop their infrastructure and manage their resources.
The transport infrastructure rehabilitation project (SDR 20.3 million, FY98) targets the
improvement of the road network and of the efficiency of road maintenance operations.
The privatization and regulatory reform technical assistance project (SDR 14.0 million,
FY99), supports the Government in the implementation of its privatization program, with
the objective to increase the efficiency, the quality and the access to utility services.
65.   Aid coordination. The last Donor Round Table took place in 1998 (the first in
ten years), where discussions focused on the framework prograrn for the fight against
poverty presented by the Government. On this occasion, Niger's partners have welcomed
the participatory processes used to elaborate the program, and upon which the preparation
of the I-PRSP capitalizes. Due to the political developments in 1999, planned follow-up
sector consultations could not yet be organized. It is expected that in the course of the
next months, Round Table meetings be held for the following sectors: private sector
development, water, decentralization, and food security.
66.   There has been close coordination with IMF staff. This credit takes account of the
conclusions of the discussions between the Nigerien authorities and IMF staff in August
2000 concerning the timing and the policy program to be supported under the proposed
PRGF arrangement. Regular contacts were also maintained with other major donors



25
involved in structural reforms and budget support such as the AfDB, the EU, France,
Germany, Belgium, or Denmark. IDA staff provided regular update on the supervision of
the previous operation as well as on the preparation of the proposed credit to the
respective representative missions of these donors.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
67.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By: Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
August 18, 2000






Annex A
Page 1 of 1
Niger Social Indicators
Latest single year            Same region/incomfe group
Sub-
Saharan         Low-
1970-75     1980-85      1993-98             Africa      income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)             4.8          6.6         10.1             627.3       3,536.4
Growth rate (% annual average)                  2.7          3.4          2.9               2.2           1.4
Urban population (% of population)               10.6         14.3         19.6              33.3         30.5
Total fertility rate (births per woman)           1.2          7.5          7.3               5.4          3.1
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                           ..           ..        63.0
Urban headcount index                            ..           ..        52.0
Rural headcount index                            ..          ..         66.0
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                             250          230          200               510           520
Consumer price index (1995=100)                   31           89          113               128           136
Food price index (1995=100)                        ..
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                         ..           ..         50.5
Lowest quintile (%'of income or consumption)       ..           ..          2.6
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)      ..           ..        53.3
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (%ofGDP)                                  ..           ..          1.3               1.5           1.3
Education (% of GNP)                            2.4          3.2         2.3                4.1          3.2
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)           ..          0.3
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                             .          25           24                 ..           86
Male                                           ..          33           30                 ..           89
Female                                         ..          17           19                 ..           82
Access to safe water
(% of population)
Total                                            ..          37           53
Urban                                          ..          48           46
Rural                                                      34           55
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                          ..          19           42                58            80
DPT                                              ..           6           28                53            82
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                .          49           50
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                           39           42           46                50            63
Male                                          38           41           44                49            62
Female                                        41           44           48                52            64
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)              166          137          118                92            68
Under 5 (per thousand live births)             320          322          250               151            92
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                  611          562          453               432           235
Female (per 1,000 population)                490          453          352               383           208
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)                ..           ..          ..
2000 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank



Annex B
Page 1 of 2
Niger - Key Economic Indicators
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product        100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculturea                 40.2    38.9    38.0       40.6      40.7      39.8     39.3      38.8     38.1
Industry'                    17.3     17.8     18.0     16.7      17.4      17.4     17.3      17.3      17.2
Services'                    40.8    41.3    41.7       39.0      41.1      40.9     40.9      41.2     41.4
Total Consumption             51.0    50.0    49.1        49.9     54.9      54.5      54.0     54.2      54.0
Grossdomesticfixed             7.5      9.6     10.9      11.3      10.3     10.1      11.0      11.6     12.4
investment
Govemment investment          5.4      4.6      5.8      6.4       6.4       5.4      6.0       6.3       6.7
Private investment            2.1      5.0      5.1      4.9       3.9       4.7      5.0       5.3       5.7
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b               17.2    16.9    16.2        15.3      13.9     13.4      13.0      12.6     12.6
Imports (GNFS)                24.3    23.5    23.8        23.5     20.9      21.9      22.0     21.6      21.0
Gross domestic savings         0.4      3.1      3.3       2.9      4.0       2.6       3.4      4.1       5.1
Gross national savings'                 6.3      6.8       7.7      7.5       5.7       6.7      7.8       9.2
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product        1881     1987     1849     2076      2022      1903     2017      2188      2378
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per   210.0   200.0   200.0    200.0    200.0           ..
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1987
prices)
Grossdomesticproductat      2.6%     3.4%     2.8%     10.4%     -0.6%     3.5%      3.7%     4.1%      4.5%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income       2.6%     3.4%     3.3%      7.4%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%/o, calculated
from 1987 prices)
Gross domestic product at   0.5%     0.0%    -0.2%      4.7%     -0.8%     0.2%      0.8%      1.1%     1.2%
market prices
Total consumption           0.4%    -3.0%    -0.3%      3.9%     0.1%     -0.1%      0.7%     0.2%      0.0%
Private consumption         2.7%    -0.3%    -3.1%      4.3%     -0.5%     2.9%      0.9%     0.4%      0.1%
Balance of Payments
(USS-)
Exports (GNFS)b             327.1    355.2   309.3    372.7    326.4    295.5    303.6    317.8    343.7
Merchandise FOB           286.4   301.6   270.7    318.6    280.9    255.4    262.9    275.3    299.3
Imports (GNFS)b             512.4   512.7   473.5    570.4    471.9    453.2    470.7    503.8    535.5
Merchandise FOB           297.4    306.0   292.7    381.1    308.1    298.2    308.6    331.7    356.9
Resource balance            -185.3   -157.5   -164.2   -197.7   -145.5   -157.8   -167.1   -185.9   -191.8
Netcurrenttransfers          97.2    91.6    90.5    123.1         90.6     77.1      84.9     98.1     115.2
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance     -88.1    -65.8    -73.7    -74.7    -54.9    -80.7    -82.1    -87.8    -76.6
(after official capital grants)
(Continued)



Annex B
Page 2 of 2
Niger - Key Economic Indicators
Hs~~~~~~                                     _
hsdig*r        1995~t   199       1997     198       1999      2000      2001      20O2       00
Net private foreign direct     0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       1.6      0.0       8.5       8.6       0.0
investment
Long-term loans (net)          5.8     -0.6      38.9      38.3       0.0    -21.7      -7.5      -5.7      -4.0
Official                    -14.9      -6.1     40.5      38.6     -1.6    -23.2       -8.9      -7.1       -5.5
Private                      20.6      5.5      -1.5     -0.3        1.6       1.4      1.4       1.4       1.4
Other capital (net, including  22.6      0.6      0.1    -15.1      -24.3       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd           59.7      65.8     34.7      51.5      77.6     102.4      81.2      85.0     80.7
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(YR87 prices)
Resource balance (% of       -19.7%    -IS.S%   -15.2%    -16.1%    -11.7%    -11.9%    -11.7%    -12.2%    -11.6%
GDP at current market
prices)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Current revenues               7.2       7.8      8.4       8.9       8.5       8.1       8.9       9.2      9.7
Current expenditures           10.3      8.5     10.5      10.5      12.1      10.8      10.2       9.8      9.4
Current account surplus (+)    0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure            4.6      4.1       5.1       5.6       5.6       4.8       5.3       5.6      5.9
Foreign financing              3.5      9.0       8.1       9.5       4.5      2.1       14.9       5.9      5.9
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP(atcurrentmarket         14.3      9.9      9.2       8.1       8.0       8.0      8.1        8.1
prices)
GrowthofM2(%)                  3.8    -25.0      -1.0       0.7      -5.5      13.8      12.6
Privatesectorcreditgrowth    -51.5      34.1     33.9      43.6      40.0        ..
total credit growth (%/6)
Price indices( YR87 =100)
Merchandiseexportprice        81.6      79.6     70.1      73.2      61.7      59.7      60.7     65.1
index
Merchandise import price      95.3      93.0     81.8      89.5      71.8      74.9      76.6      78.0
index
Merchandise terms of trade    85.6      85.6     85.7      81.8      85.9      79.8      79.3      83.4
index
Real exchange rate            54.0      55.0     54.0      59.0      61.0        ..
(US$/LCUI
Real interest rates
Consumer price index         10.9%     5.3%     2.9%      4.6%      3.5%      5.1%      1.2%      2.9%      2.9%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                  5.4%     4.7%     3.1%      3.0%      2.0%      3.5%      3.4%      3.0%      3.0%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating t'Data-YR' fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the govemment to which the data refer.
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex C
Page I of I
Niger: External Financing Requirements, 1997-2001
(In billion of CFA francs)
1997     1998      1999     2000      2001     2002
Act.     Act.      Est.    Proj.    Proj.    Proj.
Requirements                        136.6    157.5      76.0    127.6    301.3    187.1
Current account deficit, excluding
interest and official tranfers   92.8    102.3       73.9     98.2    104.8    114.9
Interest                            15.9     17.8      18.5     19.6      18.4      17.1
Debt amortization                   18.5     25.7      23.8     35.4      37.2     38.0
IMF repurchases and repayments       8.7      8.2       3.7      1.3       0.9      2.7
Changes in external payments
arrears (increase -)                8.3     -2.3    -25.5    -41.8    130.7         0.0
Changes in net foreign assets
(increase-) 1/                     -5.4      6.2    -18.4      14.9       9.3      14.4
Net counterpart to revaluation      -2.2     -0.4       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Resources                           136.6    157.6      76.0     81.6    269.1    146.7
Official transfers (gross)          65.7     76.0      58.7     61.4      65.1     70.6
Long-term public loan
disbursements (gross ) 2/          42.1     48.5      22.8     19.2      30.9     33.0
Short-term capital (net) 3/         -0.8     -9.1    -13.0       1.0       7.0       7.0
Debt rescheduling                   14.1     26.7       7.5      0.0    166.1      36.1
Use of IMF resources                15.5     15.5       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Other exceptional financing          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Remaining financing gap               0.0      0.0       0.0     46.0      32.2     40.4
Memorandum item:
Exchange rate (CFAF per SDR)        802       800      840       928      935       930
Sources: Nigerien authorities; and Fund staff estimates and projections.
1/ Excluding the net position vis-a-vis the Fund.
2/ Includes both existing and expected new commitments.
3/ Includes errors and omissions.



Annex D
Page I of 1
Niger
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Closed 49
Projects
Difference Between
Last PSR                                                              Expected and Actual
Board
Date                                                    Supervision Rating b/             Original Amount in US$ Millions            Disbursements*/
Fiscal
Year  Active Projects                              Development  Implementation         IBRD          IDA       Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig.  Frm Rev'd
Obiectives      Progress
1994     P001980      EDUCATION III - SECA                S               S                  0         41.4           0        7.02      3.74           0
1995     P001994      PILOT PRIVATE IRRIG                 S               S                  0          6.8           0        1.99        2.6       2.74
1996     P001967     NATURAL RES. MGMT                    S               S                  0         26.7           0        9.43       5.75         1.5
1997     P001999     HEALTH II                            S               S                  0           40           0       22.47      13.67          0
1997     P049691      URBAN INFRAS. REHAB.                S               S                  0           20           0       12.49       5.51       4.05
1998     P035608      TRANSP. INFRA. REHAB                S               S                  0           28           0       14.42      -4.25          0
1999     P051272      PRIVATIZ./REG.REFORM                S               S                  0          18.6          0       13.18       9.78          0
2000     P058730      AGRO-PASTORAL EXPORT PR                                                 0        10.35           0      10.27          0          0
TOTAL             191.85                  91.27
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Annex E
Page I of I
Niger
Public Finance Recovery Credit
Supplemental Credit Data Sheet
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Time taken to prepare the project:           3 months
Project prepared by:                         Government with the assistance of IDA staff
Appraisal/Negotiations:                      August 2000
Board presentation:                          September 2000
Effectiveness date:                          September 2000
Closing date:                                June 30, 2001
1/ This report is based on the findings of the World Bank mission which visited the Republic of Niger in
July 2000 to assist the Government in the appraisal and the negotiations of the Public Finance Recovery
Credit. Team members included: Messrs./Mmes Bernasconi (Task manager); Ibrahim (economist),
Daifour Ba and Makonnen (assistants); Freeze (disbursement officer); Wabnitz (counsel); Abisourour
(research analyst); Magnon (operations). Mime Plessis-Fraissard and Mr. Humphreys are the Director p.i.
and the Sector Manager, respectively, for the operation.



Annex F
Page 1 of 5
Niger - Public Finance Recovery Credit
Fiscal Management Reform program: Policy Matrix
.rir actions                     Fniture mezsures a&i olmi.                       Performance Benchmarks
1. INCREASE            * The Common External  (a) Continued reduction in tax exemptions                   Reach fiscal revenue to GDP targets:  MOC,
EFFICIENCY OF            Tariff of the WAEMU   * Improve monitoring of tax exemptions and take additional  FY 2000: 8.2 %                     GCD,GTD
REVENUE                  is implemented,         measures to streamline granting of exemptions (2001 Budget    FY 2001: 8.9 %
MOBILIZATION             reducing the maximum    Law)
tariff from 25 to 20%    * Improve system of exemption control on externally financed
procurement (Q4/2000)
Domestic tax system   (c) Improve taxpayer monitoring systems                   Increased domestic tax revenue       TR, GCD, GTD,
was revised to reduce    * Effective use of TIN database                        performance:                         GBD
corporate income tax    * Formalize exchange of data between PSI agent GCD on trade    FY 2000: FCFA 47.6 billion
(form 45 to 42.5 I%),   values; strict enforcement of controls when data diverges.  FY 2001: FCFA 51.2 billion
and raise VAT (from    (Q4/2000)
17 to 19%)
(d) Improve revenue collection outside the capital        Improved customs tax performance:   GCD
* Redeployment and training of tax collection agents;     FY 2000: 55.7 billion
* Stricter monitoring of tax performance in major urban centers   FY 2001: 59.7 billion
(e) Improve efficiency of petroleum products taxation (Q2/2001)
2. IMPROVE             * A revised Budget Law   (a) Rationalize budget allocations for non-wage spending items:  Avoid new domestic arrears on  GBD, Utility
BUDGET                   was adopted, based on   * Utilities: Determine consumption standards for water,  utilities consumption, autonomous   companies
PREPARATION AND          revenue projections     electricity and telephone (Q2/2001)                      agencies spending, or scholarships
EXPENDITURE              consistent with current  * Subsidies: bas budget allocations on recipient agency's                                   GBD, TR,
PROGRAMMING              tax collection capacity    submission of previous year accounts, current year estimates,                             MHE, other line
and a budget proposal for the future fiscal year (Q4/2000)                                  ministries
* Establish financial management and accounting systems for
autonomous agencies (EPA, EPIC; Q3/2001)
* Scholarships: Update student database to control eligibility;
review allocation criteria (Q4/2000)
* Effective use of the  (b) Rationalize budget allocation for personnel spending:
integrated civil service   * Determine the volume of departures and new recruitment, and
database for payroll    evaluate fiscal impact (wages and pensions) by using the
management             integrated payroll/personnel database (ongoing)



Annex F
Page 2 of 5
(c) Introduce medium term budget programming procedures  * Sector-wide budget sheets        GBD, pilot
* Prepare sector budget envelopes integrating investment and  * Determination of medium-term  MTEF ministry
recurrent budgets(Q4/2000)                              aggregate fiscal targets         (MPH)
* Introduce concepts of Medium-Term Expenditure Frameworks  * Evaluation of sector expenditure
(MTEFs), integrating aggregate fiscal discipline and poverty  targets linked to sector development
reduction objectives (Q3/2001)                          strategy
(d) Reform Budget nomenclature in line with Regional
guidelines (Q2/2001)
3. IMPROVE            * Advance payment       (a) Enforce budgetary discipline with respect to urgent  * Volume of regies d 'avances;     GBD, TR, GFI
EXPENDITURE             procedures formally    expenditure requests (missions, medical emeregencies,..)  regularization time lag not exceeding
MANAGEMENT              banned and regularized  * Strictly and parsimoniously apply existing rules for urgent  30 days.
[Board condition]        expenditure management (regies d'avance) (ongoing)
* Establishment of a   (b) Rationalize expenditure regulation and cash management  * Non-accumulation of new       GBD, TR, GCD,
Treasury Committee    * Weekly operational cash management plans validated by   domestic arrears from 2000        GTD
Treasury Committee (Q3/2000)                            onward
* Evaluation of the existing budget regulation mechanisms, and
adoption of corrective measures for the 2001 budget execution
(Q4/2000)
* Establishment of     (c) Strengthen of control over non-wage current expenditure  Reduce utility consumption in real    GBD, TR
financial control on  * Further reinforce oversight over EPA/EPIC expenditure  terms over 2000-2001
expenditures of state  (ongoing)
autonomous agencies    * Complete remaining technical measures needed to prevent
* Interruption of utility  abusive consumption of utility consumption (Q2/2001)
delivery in case of
non-payment
* Fully integration of  (d) Strengthen wage bill control                        * Respect wage bill targets:       GBD, MLMA
personnel and payroll   * Undertake clean-up of indemnity allocation by eliminating all   2000: CFAF 51.4 billion
files; edition of salaries   legally unjustified allowances (Q1/2001)         2001: CFAF 49.6 billion
from the new         * Design strategy for the streamlining and reduction of
integrated database    indemnities (Q4/2000)
(e) Reform public expenditure process                   * Action plan for expenditure process   GBD, TR
* Revise commitment and accounting procedures of          reform finalized
deconcentrated expenditures (delegations de credit) (Q2/2001)
* Shorten processing time between initial commitment proposal
and effective initiation of the expenditure (Q2/2001)
Prepare action plan for the reform of the expenditure process
following recommendations of an "organic" PER (Q3/2001)



Annex F
Page 3 of 5
'' ' ...... .: ' , ,v, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-4, .7  ,,,A.7
* Preparation of an    (f) Reorganization of the Treasury and modernization of   * Volumes of suspense accounts      TR
action plan in follow-   accounting procedures                                 * Revised accounting nomenclature
up to TR audit and    * Streamline and clarify accounting nomenclature, harmonized
IMF/FAD mission        with budget nomenclature reform (Q4/2000)
reports (completed)   * Reduction in use of suspense accounts (ongoing)
* Re-establishment of  * Generalize double-part accounting for tax collecting agencies,
same-day accounting    in-country TR network (Q2/200 1)
practices
4. STRENGTHEN                                  (a) Improve timeliness and quality of fiscal reporting   * Regular reconciliation between GDB   GBD, TR, GCD,
FISCAL                                         * Institutionalize and formalize regular data reconciliation  budget information and TR balance   GTD
REPORTING AND                                    meetings between concerned agencies (ongoing)            of accounts with explanation of
EXPENDITURE                                    * Adopt provisional balance of entry for 2000 Treasury balance  divergences
EVALUATION                                       sheet (Q4/2000)                                        * 2000 Balance of entry
SYSTEMS
* Introduction of a new    (b) Expand utilization of the budget information system:  * Regular fiscal reports        GBD, CIS,TR,
computerized budget    * Expansion to spending units and the Treasury Dept. (Q3/2001)  * Integrated budget management  Spending
information system    a Introduction of automated control procedures (Q1/2001)   information system in place       Agencies
a Regular production of budget execution tables (Q3/2000)
* Integration of revenue and payroll data into the budget
information system (Q2/2001)
* Completed sectoral    (c) Strengthen expenditure evaluation mechanisms         * 2001-02 budget allocations for
Public Expenditure    * Integrate recommendations of completed sector PERs in    health, education, rural development,
Reviews (Health,       Budget preparation process (Q4/2000)                      HIV/AIDS reflecting PER
Education, Rural      * Undertake and complete budget-wide PER for 1997-99       reconmmendations
sector).               focusing on: (i) intersectoral expenditure trends; (ii) review of   * Completed budget-wide PER
budgetary procedures
5. RESTORE EX          * Budget execution laws  (a) Re-establish the regular production and submission of budget  * Published budget review laws for  GBD, NA
POSTEXTERNAL             for 1997 is submitted  review laws (lois de rAglements)                           1998, 1999
AUDIT OF THE             to the National       * Submit 1998 Budget review law for 1998 to the National
BUDGET                   Assembly                Assembly (4/2000)
* All 1999 expenditures are regularized and budget review law
for 1999 submitted to the National Assembly (Q2/2001)
* Work plan is prepared and adopted to ensure regular
production of budget execution laws by the Budget Directorate
(Ql/2001)



Annex F
Page 4 of 5
Ot0    iXC  jide tlves  Prio actin                       Fuur measur  -u                                  Pb. fo.ac Becmak                  Re      i. 
The 1997 accounts are    (b) Restore State Court control over Treasury closing balances  * Completed Chamber of Accounts   TR, CHAC
transferred to the State    (comptes de gestion)                                    report for 1997 Budget
Court's Chamber of      * The 1998 accounts are closed and transferred to the Chamber
Accounts                   of Accounts (Q1/2001)
* The and 1999 accounts are closed and transferred to the
Chamber of Accounts (Q4/2001)
* Work plan is prepared and adopted to ensure regular closing
of accounts by the Treasury (Ql/2001)
* Chamber of Accounts report on 1997 accounts is submitted to
National Assembly (Q3/2001)
6. REVIVE              Evaluation report on the   * Revise institutional framework for arrears settlement,  * Up-dated arrears statistical table    CAADIE, DGB,
DOMESTIC               past settlement initiatives    including clarification of the decree creating the "autonomous  and up-dated settlement strategy    TR
ARREARS                is prepared, and          center for the amortization of the State's internal debf'
SETTLEMENT             achievements of previous    (CAADIE, Q4/2000)
PROCESS                work (physical and      * Take stock of all internal arrears by year-end 1999, undertake
electronic archives,      proper statistical and accounting classification (Q4/2000)
claims verification work)  * Update settlement plan to include all arrears, identify
are preserved             transparent settlement modalities according to the nature of the
arrears and financing strategy (Q4/2000)
7. ACCELERATE          * Civil service         (a) Civil service reform:                                 * New budgetary positions            MF, MLMA,
STRUCTURAL               retirement reform was   * Revise nomenclature of budgetary posts attached to a civil  nomenclature                   MPH, MNE
REFORMS WITH             re-enacted              service position and update database with revised budgetary    * Sectoral human resource
FISCAL IMPACT                                    posts (Q2/2001)                                            management plans (health,
* Initiate process of decentralization of budgetary positions  education)
(Q3/2001)
* Prepare human resource management plans for key ministries
focusing on redeployment and alternative recruitment
strategies (Ql/2001)
Pre-qualified      (b) Privatization and regulatory reform program            * Completed telecommunications      MP/RSE, MC,
investors for       * Staffing and operational establishment of the Multi-sector  sector liberalization (attribution of  MF
SONITEL, SNE          Regulatory Agency (Ql/2001)                               cellular phone licenses, SONITEL
were selected and   * Designation of the investor to take over the SONITEL strategic    privatization)
invited to submit    capital share, and attribution f two cellular phone licenses to  * Completed SNE, NIGELEC
financial bids.      the private sector (Q4/2000)                               transactions
*   Invitations to submit  * Designation of the investor to take over the management
financial offers for  contract of the water distribution company SNE (Ql/2001)
two cellular phone    * Designation of the investor to be granted the concession for the
licenses launched    power distribution company NIGELEC (Q3/2001)
* Designation of the shareholders for to take over the petroleum
import company (Q2/2002)
* Reform the petroleum pricing system (Q1/2001)          I



Annex F
Page 5 of 5
Acronyms used in Annex F:
CHAC       Chamber of Accounts
CIS        Central Information (Technology) Services - Ministry of Finance
GBD        General Budget Directorate
GCD        General Customs Directorate
GFI        General Finance Inspection
GTD        General Taxation Directorate
MC          Ministry of Commerce
MHE         Ministry of Higher Education
MF         Ministry of Finance
MLMA       Ministry of Labor and the Modernization of Administration
MNE        Ministry of National Education
MP         Ministry of Plan
MPH        Ministry of Public Health
MP/RSE    Ministry of Privatization and Reform of State Enterprise
NA          National Assembly
PER        Public Expenditure Review
PSI        Pre-Shipment Inspection
TIN         Taxpayer Identification Number
TR          Treasury






Annex G
Page I of 2
Niger at a glance                                                              8/15/00
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-
Niger    Africa  Income       Development dlamond*
1999
Population, mid-year (miMions)                        10.3      642      2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    200       500       410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       2.0       321      988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                         34        26        1
Labor forcef                                           3.4       2.6       1.      GNP                              Gross
per          \f l              pnmary
Most reent estimate (latest year available, 1993-9111)                             capita         \J            enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  63
Urban population (% of total population)               19        34        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       47        50        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                ..       92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             43         32       43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of populatin)       53         43       64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   86         39       39
Gross prmary enrollment (% of school-age population)   29         78       90       -Niger -9-Low6ncore grup
Male                                                 36        8        102       -Ngr- -o-icmgop
Female                                               22        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratos'
GDP (USS billions)                           2.1       2.1       2.0       2.1
GrossdornesticinvestmenUGDP                 25.8      14.1      11.3      10.3                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           28.5      17.1      16.4      14.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   17.5      7.2       2.9       4.0
Gross national savings/GDP                   19,1      9.0       7.7       7.5
Current account balance/GDP                 -10.2      1.5      -9,g      4,5      Domestic                     I t
Interest payments/GDP                         2.0      1.7                         Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                              29.8      70.6      81.8      76.9
Total debt service/exports                   13.9     32.3      33.0      38.6
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
1979489  1989-99     1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 -0.9      2.3     10.4      -0.6       36        -Niger              Low-income group
GNP per capita                     -3.7      -1.3      4.7      -0.7       0.3
Exports of goods and serves         4.0       1.8      9.8     -12.1       3.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP(%)
(%/ of GDP)                                                                        0
Agriculture                                  48.7     35.0      40.6      40.7    100
Industry                                     18.7     18.0      16.7      17.1     s       A
Manufacturing                               4.2      6.4       6.3       6.3
Services                                     32.6     46.9      39.0      41.1      4 />
go 97   98   99)
Private consumption                         71.1      76.7      82.7      82.9    -50
General govemment consumption                11.4     16.2      13.3      13.9              -     GDl    --,GDP
Imports of goods and services               36.9      24.0      23.5      20.9
(average annual growth)                  1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   1.7      3.0      17.3      -0.3     o -.
Industry                                     -1.6      1.7       2.1       3.6    40
Manufacturing                                ..      2.1        3.3       3.5
Services                                     -3.7      1.2       2.8       4.7    20
Private consumption                          -0.2      3.2       4.3      -0.5      0     .o
General govemment consumption                 1.7     -0.3       4.8       7.5                       9894  ff   97   98
Grossdomesticinvestment                      -7.3      2.5      14.5    -13.0   -20
Imports of goods and services                -5.0      3.9       8.7    -11.3               -Exports    Olmports
Gross national product                       -0.4      2.1       8.2       2.6   I
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex G
Page 2 of 2
Niger
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      InfatIon (%)
Domestc prices
(% change)                                                                           40
Consumer prices                                        6-0.8       436 3-5 30
Implicit GDP deflator                          4.6      0.9        3.0       2.0     20
Government finance                                                                   10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   0
Currentrevenue                                  ..    11.1         8.9       8.5    -10      94   ss   96   97    98   99
Current budget balance                          ..    -1.1         1.2      -0.9            -     GDP dflator  -    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..   -10.4        -5.3      -6.6                      d
TRADE
1979     1989      1998      1999       Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millins)
Total exports (fob)                            485      308        301      256      soo
Uranium                                        ..     232        133       106
Livestock                                     ..       43         48        50     4                       E    m     i
Manufactures                                        .         ..       ..          300
Total imports (cf)                              ..      386        431      367      200
Food                                          ..       27         36        28
Fuel and energy                                ..      18         25        27     100
Capitalgoods                                   ..     118         97        71       o
93   94  95   96   97  9e 
Export pnce index (1995=100)                             74       103       107
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       58        112      113                  * Exports     E Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..     128         92       94
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979  1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP C%)
(US o millions)
Exports of goods and services                 521       350       337       240       2
Imports of goods and services                 769       358       488       424      -2--      -    _       
Resource balance                              -249       -7       -151     -134       4-
Net income                                     -57  28  -28  -28  2-111111
Net current transfers                           91       11       -22       -19    -1
Current account balance                       -215       32       -202     -181      -12 1
Financing items (net)                         359       -32       209       149      -14
Changes in net reserves                       -144        0         -7        32      e l
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millions)            .        ..       77        53
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)             212.7    319.0      594.5    591.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           629    1,496      1,662     1,643
IBRD                                           0        0
IDA                                          48       383       687
Total debt service                              75      122        114       116      Compo lUIll.)
IBRD                                           0        0          0        0
IDA                                           0         4         5         0                                      B:687
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             117       169                    .        D: 975
Official creditors                           66        81          0        0
Private creditors                           125        10
Foreign direct investment                      ..
Portfolio equity                              0         0         0
WVord Bank program
Commitments                                  37         0       111
Disbursements                                12        40                          A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Principal repayments                          0         1         3         0      B - IDA    D - Other mutilateral  F - Private
Netflows                                     12        39          ..          .     _I_
Interest payments                              0        2          3        0
Net transfers                                 11       37
Development Economics                                                                                                   8115/00



Annex H
Page 1 of 16
REPUBLIC OF NIGER                                 Niamey, September 14, 2000
OFFICE OF PRIME MINISTER
The Prime Minister
Head of Government
To
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President of the World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C., 20433
Dear Mr. President,
I am pleased to transmit herewith the Letter of Development Policy of the
Government of the Republic of Niger.
This Letter of Development Policy, together with its policy matrix and
attachment, summarizes the goals, strategies and policies which the Nigerien authorities
intend to pursue to put on track the main existing imbalances in its public finances and to
create favorable conditions to fight and alleviate poverty through a sustainable and
durable growth with both bilateral and multilateral external financial assistance.
The different elements of this letter have been the subject of in-depth discussions
with your staff and also within Niger. I am pleased that these efforts made it possible, on
August 10, 2000, to satisfactorily conclude the negotiations of a Public Finance Recovery
Credit of SDR 26.5 million (US$35.0 million equivalent).
While reiterating my deepest gratitude for your constant concern with respect to
Niger, I remain very truly yours.
Hama Amadou
Prime Minister
[Seal of Office]



Annex H
Page 2 of 16
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY: FISCAL MANA GEMENT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.   Niger is a Sahelian country that suffers from major handicaps associated in particular with the
increasing dryness of the climate, heavy demographic pressure, and a weak natural resource endowment.
Its landlocked situation in the heart of the continent also inflates the cost of its imports and exports. A
series of social and political crises, including two rebellions, have generated a degree of institutional
instability that has discouraged the implementation of measures to restructure and revive the economy.
2.   After more than a decade marked by a series of social and political crises, declining productive
activities, deteriorating government finances, and a deteriorating environment, economic and financial
problems have assumed dramatic proportions and poverty has become more and more persistent in urban
and rural areas alike.
3.   The Niger authorities launched a structural adjustment program in June 1996 with support from the
International Monetary Fund under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) in the amount of
SDR 57.6 million. In 1997 Niger was the beneficiary of a World Bank credit of SDR 21.6 million for
public sector adjustment, followed in 1998 by a Public Finance Reform Credit of SDR 48 million and a
Privatization and Regulatory Reform Technical Assistance Credit of SDR 14 million.
4.   Initial results of these operations were encouraging, particularly in the areas of public finances and
privatization, but the bulk of financial support for these programs was suspended in the wake of political
events that occurred during the third year of the ESAF, two months before it was due to expire.
5.   The Government that took office following the democratic elections of late 1999 is determined to
pursue economic and financial reform and to focus its economic and social development policy on a
strategy of promoting sustainable human development and combating poverty, through the formulation of
a Poverty Reduction Strategy Document (PRSD).
6.   Meanwhile, because the participatory process for preparing this document will take time, the
Government has decided to develop an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Document that will:
* Reaffirm the Government's commitment to preparing and implementing a Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP).
* Define the strategic policy areas for the interim period.
* Set the various phases for preparing the full PRSP.
* Describe the proposed participatory approach.
7.   The principal strategic thrust of the Government's economic and financial policy during the interim
period, however, will be to pursue the structural reforms initiated in 1996 in an effort to create a stable
macroeconomic framework.
8.  It is in this context that the Niger authorities, convinced that fiscal reform is an indispensable
condition for national economic and social development, and hence for combating poverty throughout the
country, are determined to implement the necessary financial restructuring measures to restore the
effectiveness of public spending and strengthen the capacity to mobilize domestic resources.



Annex H
Page 3 of 16
II. MEDIUM-TERM MACROECONOMIC OBJECTIVES (2000-2002)
9.   The year 1999 was marked, on the economic and financial front, by the abrupt cessation of the
program with the International Monetary Fund, and the suspension of financial cooperation with most of
the country's development partners. These circumstances, together with an unfavorable international
economic situation, have had a negative impact on economic activity and on the public finances. GDP
growth was negative in 1999, at -0.6 percent, falling far short of the 4.5 percent projected, and the 10.4
percent recorded in 1998.
10.  The inflation rate, nevertheless, averaged 2.0 percent for the year, while the global investment rate
stood at 10.2 percent in 1999, compared to 11.3 percent in 1998.
11.  In the fiscal arena, the consequences were a drop in budgetary revenues and an increase in
expenditures compared to 1998. As a result, the basic and overall primary deficits widened, and there
was a build-up of domestic and external arrears.
A.  QUALITATIVE OBJECTIVES
12. The Government's basic qualitative objective is to combat poverty effectively by creating the
conditions for sustainable economic growth and, in particular, re-establishing a broad macroeconomic
balance. The Government's macroeconomic objectives, as announced in its economic and social policy
statement for the period 2000-2004, are consistent with the guidelines and recommendations for economic
convergence agreed on within the WAEMU.
13. The Government therefore proposes to intensify and consolidate the various economic policy
reforms already under way, in order to:
- Rationalize the public finances;
* Accelerate structural reforms to encourage private sector activity;
* Provide the most vulnerable segments of society with better access to basic social services,
particularly primary education, basic health care, and safe drinking water.
B.   MEDIUM-TERM QUANTITATIVE OBJECTIVES
14.  In terms of the productive economy, these objectives are to: (i) revive economic growth to reach a
rate of 4.5 percent by 2003; (ii) progressively reduce the current account deficit; (iii) keep inflation below
3 percent; and (iv) increase the ratio between domestically financed investment and fiscal revenues.
15.  In pursuit of these goals, the Public Investment Program (PIP) will identify projects that will
address the needs of the poor while respecting the need to re-establish a macroeconomic balance.
Nevertheless, over the short term, a recovery in capital spending will require a solution to the problem of
arrears on external debt service, and regular payment of counterpart contributions to projects; over the
medium-term, the programming cycle will have to be improved through a series of specific actions
already identified.
16. On the budgetary front, the Government intends to pursue a rigorous policy over the period 2000-
2002 to maintain aggregate expenditure at a level compatible with available resources and with the
regional objective of macroeconomic stability. It plans therefore: (i) to increase the fiscal revenue to
GDP ratio from 8.4 percent in 1999 to 8.8 percent in 2001, by involving local governments more actively



Annex H
Page 4 of 16
in efforts to broaden the revenue base and improve tax collection and to develop taxable activities in the
rural economy; (ii) to curb public spending and make it more efficient; and (iii) to cap the level of wage
and salary costs at 34 percent of current spending and at 44.7 percent of tax revenues by 2001.
C.   MONETARY AND CREDIT POLICY
17.  The monetary authorities will continue to pursue a prudent credit policy compatible with the
objective of reviving economic activity, within the Community framework. In September 1998, the
monetary authorities decided to eliminate direct monetary financing of the public sector completely by
December 31, 2001, a move that will reduce net credit to the public sector considerably, thereby making
the private sector the principal beneficiary of domestic credit.
18.  In addition, preparation of a financial sector adjustment program is well under way and the
Government is making significant efforts to promote a system of decentralized credit that will be better
suited to the needs and capacities of poor residents of rural and peri-urban areas.
D.  EXTERNAL TRADE POLICY
19.  The outlook for the external sector remains highly dependent on the performance of the uranium
industry, where growth potential remains limited. The Government intends to reverse this trend and to
raise the level of exports, through a strategy that focuses primarily on livestock and agricultural products.
A program to promote agro-silvi-pastoral exports is currently being launched.
HI. FISCAL MANAGEMENT REFORM
20.  Given Niger's persisting problems in the sphere of public finance, the objectives of the reform
program adopted in 1998 with World Bank support through the SDR 48 million Public Finance Reform
Credit (PFRC) remain valid.
21.  The Government continues to attach priority to the three key areas of intervention that the previous
PFRC was intended to support: a return to orthodox public finance management, greater efficiency in
public spending, and a stronger capacity to mobilize domestic resources. The authorities are determined
to pursue these objectives vigorously.
22.  The principal measures adopted for the short and medium-term focus primarily on: restoring
budgetary discipline, enhancing the transparency of public sector financial operations, and ensuring
rational cash management. Steps have already been taken to address all stages of the expenditure cycle
(commitment, verification, authorization, payment, and accounting). Given the scope of these measures,
however, implementation of some of them will continue into 2001 and 2002.
23. More broadly speaking, particular attention will be paid to rationalizing budgetary monitoring and
enhancing the reliability of information on budget execution. The Government has already instituted a
specific tool for monitoring budget operations on a regular basis. The Public Finance Reform Program,
the main features of which are summarized in the attached policy matrix, will make it possible to address
the issues of programming and budgetary preparation in depth, and to analyze the effectiveness of public
spending in terms of its cost and its impact.



Annex H
Page 5 of 16
A.   MOBILIZING DOMESTIC REVENUE
24.  In light of its medium-term revenue objectives, the Govemment will focus essentially on:
* Improving tax administration by pursuing the measures initiated under the 1996-1999 program to
strengthen personnel and material resources. These call in particular for creating conditions to foster
better performance by the tax and customs duties collecting agencies, and for the implementation of
the following measures:
(i)    General use of the potential offered by the taxpayer identification number (TIN), as a means
to improve taxpayer monitoring across agencies and reducing fraud.
(ii)   Control and reduction of tax exemptions through stricter monitoring and control. In this
context, the measures that have been in place since May 1998 to control exemptions for
externally financed government contracts will be strictly enforced.
(iii)  Introduction of a system of regular reminders to delinquent taxpayers.
(iv)   Closer monitoring of large taxpayers by the Large Taxpayer Unit (LTU) of the General Tax
Department (GTD).
* continuing review of the exemptions regime for certain staple products;
- extension of the import inspection program to the principal customs offices in the interior, and to
products coming from Nigeria;
* greater supervision of rural economic activities that generate cash incomes (with the revival of cash-
crop farming offering promising possibilities in this regard).
25. The GTD estimates revenues for the year 2000 at CFAF 50.1 billion. The Government adopted a
law increasing the VAT rate from 18 to 19 percent in May 2000. Among the administrative measures
implemented, the following can be singled out:
* stricter controls (regular and random auditing of accounts);
* formation of special teams with responsibility for collecting overdue land, property and value-added
taxes, and registration fees;
* strict monitoring of pay-ins of road toll proceeds by the Chamber of Commerce, betting tax proceeds
by the Niger National Lottery, and mining royalty proceeds by the uranium production companies.
26.  For fiscal year 2001, the GTD projects revenue of CFAF 53.9 billion, or approximately CFAF 3.8
billion (7.6 %) more than for FY2000. This improvement will come mainly from direct taxes, which are
expected to show a significant increase, to be achieved on the basis of:
* opening of local Tax Centers and Tax Payment Offices in the principal towns of administrative
districts currently without them (22 Centers and 29 Offices);
* extension of the five-percent advance on the business profits tax to all taxpayers (elimination of the
affidavit of dispensation from payment of this advance);
*  simplification of the business license tax formula and provision for its payment in two installments;
* involvement of regional and local authorities in the collection of business license tax proceeds.
27.  Customs revenue is projected at CFAF 55.7 billion for FY2000 and CFAF 59.7 billion for FY2001.
These figures will be achieved through administrative measures on the one hand and closer collaboration
with the import verification company.



Annex H
Page 6 of 16
28.  These administrative measures will consist of:
*  a ban on clearance through border customs stations of goods destined for towns in the interior of the
country;
*  reorganization of services in Customs Administration central offices;
*  training on anti-fraud strategies, and customs audit;
*  update of the information system  accommodating various customs management processes
(management of warehouses , bond stores, etc.), and related training;
29.  Closer collaboration with the import verification agency resulted in more effective tracking of
imports. Now that this company is established in Gaya and Torodi, two of the country's main border
gates, the customs authorities are in a better position to obtain data on quantities and values of goods
imported.
30.  In the interests of still more effective tracking of imports, the General Customs Department (GCD)
has recently agreed with CNUT (Conseil nigerien des utilisateurs de transports) on arrangements that
will give real-time via the internet to information on cargoes for Niger unloaded in the ports of Cotonou,
Lome, and Tema in Ghana, and all merchandise dispatched toward Niger. This system is in the course of
being tested, and the information received will be processed by a special unit before being circulated to all
customs border stations and the verification company.
31.  In addition, the customs stations at Tahoua, Agadez, Dan Issa, and Matameye should be
computerized by the end of 2000.
32.  In accordance with the commitments of the Treaty on the West African Economic and Monetary
Union (WAEMU), the Government has implemented Ordinance no. 99/65 dated 20 December 1999,
which revises the tariff structure and reduce the maximum tariff rate. While expecting net benefits from
this measures in the medium term, the Government estimates that the gross loss of revenue attributable to
it will be stand around CFAF 8.5 billion. Urgent steps have been taken to redress this situation, primarily
through the following amendments to the taxation system:
* The business profits tax advance has been raised from 4 to 5 percent, the VAT rate from 17 to 18, and
later 19 percent; the tobacco and cigarette excise tax from 20 to 30 percent.
* Certain previously exempted products have been reclassified and are now subject to VAT.
*  Excise taxes of 10 percent (excluding VAT) have been imposed on tea, the cola nut, perfumes and
cosmetics; a 14 percent excise is collected on cooking oils and fats.
*  A "temporary import tax" (TCI) of 10 percent has been imposed on imports of rice, in compliance
with the provisions of WAEMU directives on the implementation of the common external tariff
(CET).
33.  Government revenues have also been affected by the fallout from rising world oil prices. For fiscal
years 1998 and 1999, taxes on petroleum products (customs duties, domestic tax on petroleum products,
"statistical tax" and VAT) yielded on average CFAF 8.2 billion, equal to nearly 50 percent of the customs
value of these products. Prior to the jump in world prices, there were no major problems with the
administered price mechanism, which was designed to produce a net transfer from certain products
(gasoline) to other products (lighting petroleum) essentially for reasons of social equity. Yet this price
system has clear limitations in the current context of rising world prices. To make up for a shortfall in
revenues, several measures are planned: (i) a reform to the price structure for petroleum products; (ii) an
increase in retail prices; (iii) tax measures that will actually generate the expected revenues. The reform



Annex H
Page 7 of 16
of the petroleum product pricing structure will be based on studies to be conducted in consultation with
the World Bank.
B.   BUDGET PREPARATION
34.  The corrective budget law recently adopted by the National Assembly, incorporates revenue
projections which are more realistic than those included in the initial law, itself adopted by ordinance in
December 1999. In addition, the relative share of the basic education and health sectors was substantially
increased.
35.  Since 1998, public expenditure reviews (PERs) have been conducted in the sectors of health and
education, and the main conclusions of the PERs were taken into account in the preparation of the
corrective budget law.
36.  Regarding the appropriations for wages and salaries in the corrective Budget, it should be noted
that the allocated amount of CFAF 52 billion reflects no change in the payroll from the amount observed
in 1999. The apparent increase simply reflects a reclassification.
37.  The budget envelope for the health sector has been increased substantially, and now accounts for
more than 8 percent of all spending under the General Budget, the highest relative amount ever allocated
to the sector. While the proportion earmarked for payroll has declined, expenditure on equipment has
been revised upwards. Subsidies to autonomous agencies (e.g. national hospitals) in the health sector
have also increased.
38.  In the education sector, operating expenses (excluding higher education and bursaries) have risen
sharply, to more than 14 percent of General Budget expenditure. In terms of non-payroll expenditure, the
share devoted to primary education has increased, in line with PER recommendations. Secondary
schooling has also benefited from an adjustment, instead of the substantial reduction prescribed in the
initial Budget Law.
39.  The provisions incorporated in the corrective Budget for water, electricity, and telephone
services generally reflect 1999 consumption levels, and are considerably more realistic than the
allocations contained in the initial Budget.
40.  However, the process currently followed in drafting the budget does not take sufficient account of
the interaction between the objectives pursued by sector ministries and the economic assumptions
underlying the macroeconomic framework of the budget.
41.  This situation poses a number of problems: it is difficult to draw an overall picture of resource
allocation to the various sector policies; sector ministries participate marginally to the preparation of the
macroeconomic framework; and the macroeconomic model is not enriched with feedback garnered from
experience.
42.  The Government has therefore decided that by the end of the year 2000 it will set up a series of
concise sector databases that will help to systematize the overall budgetary envelope (current and
investment) allocated to each sector and to isolate the main hypotheses on which the forecasting of
resources and objectives is based.
43.  This approach could be used in preparing the 2002 budget, through coordination between the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Planning, and the sector ministries.



Annex H
Page 8 of 16
44.  Over the medium-term, this approach will result in a three-year programming cycle for preparing
the operating budget, similar to what is done for the investment budget through the Public Sector
Investment Program. It will also mean that eventually the general budget and the investment budget can
be integrated.
C.   EXECUTION OF THE BUDGET
(1)  Computerizing the expenditure cycle
45.  A computerized budget execution program was installed at the end of last year, with the support of
the French cooperation authorities. Although it uses a modem database management system, it in fact
covers only a portion of the expenditure cycle. The application now encompasses largely the budgetary
imputation information from the Payment Orders Unit, itself within the General Budget Department
(GBD). The plan is to expand the system to the Treasury and to the Administrative and Financial Affairs
Divisions of the sector ministries which usually initiate the expenditure process. Modern solutions will
be explored for data transmission by telephone line within an "intranet" network, as an alternative to
installing a wired network.  With access to a "private" web server of the Ministry of Finance,
commitment proposals from administrators and sign-offs by controllers can be entered on-line. Such a
configuration will also make it possible to retrieve prompt information on the availability of authorized
funds and to perform electronic debits. Such an interface is expected to be operational during the course
of FY2001. Familiarization and demonstration sessions have been organized to introduce the new
interface to all government departments concerned (Treasury, Inspectorate General of Finance, DAAFs
and financial controllers, etc.). Meetings will also be held to inform deconcentrated credit administrators
and financial controllers of this new application.
46.  In its current configuration, the cycle closely reflects the terminology and procedures of the old
system. The new application was in fact initially developed to meet urgent needs with respect to Y2K.
An in-depth review of current procedures and concepts is planned, in light of the possibilities offered by
the new technology.
47.  It is also planned that the current application and its future configuration will incorporate prior
controls into the computerized program itself, and that the terminology used in the application will reflect
the statutory instruments in force. As a parallel measure, the authorities have decided to set up a series of
files containing the key laws and regulations governing budget execution and public accounting
requirements.
48.  The next step will be to prepare a procedural guide detailing the steps in the expenditure cycle, the
type of information to be entered at each stage and the responsibility centers for performing these entries
and amending them. The Payment Order Unit has already developed a table summarizing the precise
steps of the expenditure cycle. The procedural guide will also allow computer technicians to specify the
system's access protocols and to block access to unauthorized users, in line with public finance
management principles. The need for such a device will be all the greater once access to the computer
system is extended to cover the entire cycle.
49.  Over the medium term, a more thorough reform of procedures and concepts for the expenditure
cycle will be initiated, as part of an "organic" review of public spending.
50.  In order to make full use of the new budget application's capacities for data editing and analysis, it
is planned to have the system produce an operating report showing the status of budgetary execution and



Annex H
Page 9 of 16
highlighting the most important expenditure and revenue items. Once an interface is created with the
Treasury, it will be possible to produce a full operating report with data on payments made and on
revenues actually received. For the revenue module of the application, the Government will examine the
possibility of transferring data from systems compatible with the server-client budget database (e.g. the
SYDONIA/ASYCUDA system used by the Customs Administration).
51.  Further downstream, an interface will be established with the Treasury to facilitate data exchange
between the GBD and the Treasury. This will avoid the need for multiple data entry. In terms of
transactions recording, the Treasury already has its own information system, which does not however
offer full data security. The authorities have therefore decided to integrate an accounting module into the
environment currently used for the budget application. In time, the central network will also include pay
offices from the internal network.
(2)  Cash management and budget regulation
52.  To deal with the cash shortage problems, the Government has established an emergency
mechanism since the beginning of the year to monitor budget execution and cash management. Budget
appropriations that are deemed irreducible are released, after discussion in the Cabinet, in light of actual
tax and other revenues recorded during the previous period. Irreducible expenditures are essentially those
for civilian and military wages and pensions, as well as personnel costs of some subsidized State
agencies, and certain external debt service items. The balance is allocated to operating expenses of the
Ministries, with priority to water, electricity and telephone charges. From the institutional viewpoint,
allocations are proposed by the Ministry of Finance, and then discussed and decided in Cabinet on a
monthly basis.
53. The purpose of this emergency device, which reflects the Government's decision to suspend
disbursement for expenditures committed before the beginning of the current fiscal year, is of course to
keep cash outlays within the limits of available resources and thus avoid a new buildup of arrears,
particularly domestic arrears (to civil servants, suppliers, banks etc.). However, this device has had the
perverse effect of encouraging the return to "exceptional payment practices", somewhat similar to the
advance payments (PPAs) that were made for urgent expenditures. It should be noted, however, that the
prepayments made this year are different from PPAs under the "old formula" in the sense that they have
been made only when the related budget appropriations have been released and cash is available through
the emergency mechanism described above.
54.  Aware that the spread of such practices is undesirable from many points of view, the Government
is moving decisively to put an end to them. The Prime Minister has released and instruction to
Government members in May 2000, requesting that all public sector entities absolutely respect the
prevailing legislation when incurring expenditures.
55.. In any case, the resulting expenditures have all been subject to budgetary and accounting control.
A report by the Inspector General of Finance found that this practice has ceased, and that all expenditures
made in this way have been regularized.
56.  In future, expenditures that are indisputably urgent will be handled through the existing contingent
advances procedure (regies d'avances), and will be strictly limited: there will be a tight deadline set for
ex post regularization of such transactions, as a condition for any further advance.
57. For its current operations, the Government has decided to adopt a three-tier cash management tool.
Cash requirement forecasts will be established on an annual basis (semi-annual for the remainder of the



Annex H
Page 10 of 16
2000 fiscal year), on a quarterly basis and on a monthly basis. The quarterly forecasts will be "sliding,"
will be revised monthly, and will serve as the basis of discussion for budgetary regulation in Cabinet,
after which budget administrators and financial controllers will be notified immediately of resource
allocation guidelines. Finally, the monthly operating plans, will serve as the basis for the meetings of a
newly restored and empowered Treasury Committee. This device will rely on regular cash management
projections and summaries prepared by the Studies Unit of the Treasury.
58. The task of monitoring the Government's cash reserves will thus be the responsibility of the
Treasury Committee, which is now limited to 10 members, whose powers have been redefined to
provide for greater control over public cash management.
59. Public cash management is now supported by several pieces of legislation adopted in 1998 and
1999 to provide a budget regulation tool accessible to all parts of the administration.
60. This newly consolidated budget regulation tool will provide for:
* awareness at the highest level of the financial constraints facing the Government;
* close monitoring of cash reserves;
* a commitment breakdown of allocations, with variable rates of regulation depending on the nature of
the subject expenditures, adjustable over time by the Cabinet;
* an ad hoc computerized tool for blocking commitments not yet released.
D.  EX-POST CONTROLS (Budget Review Laws and Management Accounts)
61. Among the most important short-term measures planned is the requirement for ex-post
budgetary control by the National Assembly and the Chamber of Accounts of the State Court. In
addition, work on drafting Budget Review and Management Account legislation, suspended since the
mid-1980s, will resume.  The Budget Review process for FY1997 has been completed, and a
corresponding Budget Review Law has been forwarded to the National Assembly. A Review Law of
1998 will be ready by October 2000, and work will continue on preparation of the 1999 Review. The
Treasury Accounts for FY 1997 have already been submitted to the Chamber of Accounts. In light of the
shortage of human resources and overall lack of experience in this area, development partners will be
approached shortly to explore the possibility of technical support for the State Court.
62. Notable progress has been made in consolidating figures and closing accounts for the 1999 fiscal
year. Outstanding issues relating both to revenues and expenditure will be settled definitively by October
2000.
63. With respect to determining the opening balance for the year 2000:
* A team of local experts has prepared a memorandum with concrete proposals for determining opening
balances as of January 1 1997, for different categories of accounts.
* These status reports will be updated once the final results for FY1997, FY1998, and FY1999 are in
hand.
64. The scheme proposed by the experts will be discussed and decided with the Senior Management of
Treasury. Simulation exercises will be used to develop draft legal instruments of regularization for
submission to the authorities (Government, National Assembly, and the Chamber of Accounts). The



Annex H
Page 11 of 16
medium term goal is to institute regular ex-post review of budget execution immediately following the
closure of the fiscal year.
E.   TREATMENT OF DOMESTIC ARREARS
65.  Where domestic arrears are concerned, the budget provides an allocation of CFAF 17.2 billion to
the Autonomous Center for the Settlement of Public Sector Domestic Debt (CAADIE) to pay down
arrears. However, quite apart from questions relating to the institutional arrangements for this new
agency's operations, the Government has decided not to activate this budgetary item (1 47-2-11) until a
strategy or action plan can be worked out with the country's development partners for a comprehensive
and transparent approach to the issue of domestic arrears. Since avoiding the emergence of new arrears is
a priority for the FY2000 budget, the payment of domestic arrears will be deferred, except where special
funding earmarked for this purpose is available. Consistent with this approach, there is no entry under the
heading "miscellaneous debts".
66.  As noted earlier, there was a considerable increase in domestic arrears during FY1999, in
particular where civil servants were concerned (six months of unpaid salaries, totaling CFAF 25.6
billion). In addition, new accounts payable have accumulated in the Treasury and now exceed CFAF 14
billion. On the basis of estimates made in March 2000, public sector domestic debt and arrears stood at
more than CFAF 265 billion as of December 31, 1999. Excluding financial and banking debt and
deposits of Treasury correspondants, payment arrears amounted to more than CFAF 187 billion at that
time, consisting of CFAF 62 billion due to households (of which CFAF 51 billion represented wage and
salary arrears) and CFAF 125 billion to other creditors.
67.  Consolidation of figures for FY1999 revealed a total of more than CFAF 14 billion in
authorizations pending. The normal handling of these items has been suspended and a special team set up
to review them and check them for irregularities before any policy decision is taken. In order to assure
comprehensive and transparent treatment of domestic arrears, expenditures for which orthodox budgetary
procedures have been followed and for which services have been rendered or goods supplied will be
entered in the administrative accounts and added to the stock of accounts payable by the Treasury for
FY1999. All other items will be rejected, in accordance with current legislation.
68.  On the institutional front, the Government has adopted a decree creating the Autonomous Center
for the Settlement of Public Sector Domestic Debt (CAADIE), replacing the Ad Hoc Commission for
Management and Processing of Domestic Arrears (CGTAIE). The mandate of this new body is to settle
payment arrears in accordance with a strategy and action plan yet to be agreed on for the settlement of a
clearly defined set of claims on the public sector. To this end, the concept of arrears will be strictly
defined in order to avoid any confusion.
69. As regards the mode of operation of CAADIE, the Government has decided on a process consisting
of the following steps:
*  A wrap-up analysis of the activities of CGTAIE: (i) assessment of results; (ii) analysis of institutional
impediments encountered by CGTAIE, and appropriate recommendations; (iii) ensuring the security
of CAADIE archives, both physical and electronic.
*  Defining institutional arrangements for the operations of CAADIE.
*  Updating and confirmation of the scope of arrears to be settled, as well as a strategy and action plan
for dealing with them in a comprehensive and transparent way.



Annex H
Page 12 of 16
* Definition of options for settlement of claims: securitization, a return to the concept of auctions, etc.,
in light of the Government's financial and institutional capacities for implementing them.
* Definition of an accounting and budgetary registration system and procedures to ensure transparency
in the clearing of arrears.
70. The evaluation report on the activities of the former arrears conditions. With respect to this issue
the Government already has at hand a number of studies and consultant reports, on the basis of which it
expects to establish shortly an assessment and a proper framework for dealing with these arrears.
F.   STRUCTURAL REFORMS
(1) Privatization Program
71.  Niger is committed to the privatization of 1 1 public enterprises through a program adopted
in October 1996 and financed under an IDA Credit. To this end, the Government has adopted
several measures including the two Ordinances of 1996 identifying enterprises to be privatized
and establishing the conditions for the implementation of the privatization program. In addition,
the Prime Minister has emphasized in his General Policy Statement, that the new authorities are
fully committed to accelerate the privatization program.
72. Execution of this privatization program, an essential component of the Government's economic
planning, has already resulted in the disposal of three of the target enterprises:
* SONITEXTIL (textiles), transferred to a Sino-Niger group in July 1997;
* SOLANI (dairy products), sold to a Fan Milk (Niger)/Fan Milk (International) partnership in May
1998;
* SNC (cement), bought by SCANCEM In. and a group of Niger nationals in August 1998.
73. In the case of SNE (water distribution) and SONITEL (telecommunications), the Government has
already selected pre-qualified investors and officially invited them to submit bids.
74. With respect to the attribution of two licenses for operating GSM cellular phone systems, the
Government has called for bids in the international press in May 2000.
75. In the case of SONIDEP, introduction of the initial petroleum sector reform plan came up against a
number of difficulties, ascribable mainly to:
* rejection by domestic retailers of the findings of the study on deposit and storage.
* The lack of an agreement on the allocation of the capital shares of this company once it is privatized -
the proposed distribution being 30 percent for the State and 70 percent to be shared among the major
retailers and the other operators;
* questioning by the members of GPP of the various categories of remuneration proposed in the draft of
the new petroleum products price schedule.
76. In view of the foregoing, the Government, recently held successful consultations with the World
Bank for a revision of the initial petroleum sector reform plan. The alternative plan drawn up and debated
by the steering committee proposes:



Annex H
Page 13 of 16
* privatization of SONIDEP by opening up of ownership of its capital to technically and financially
sound national and international private interests;
* continuation of the monopoly on import of petroleum products. Lifting of the import monopoly could
have only adverse effects on the Niger economy (frequent interruptions in supply, chronic
fluctuations in pump prices, ill-advised expansion of the informal sector, and fraud resulting in losses
of tax and customs revenue from petroleum activities.
77.  With regards to the other companies to be privatized, as the NIGELEC (power distribution) for
instance, the program is not as advanced but goes ahead in conformity with the schedule discussed with
the World Bank.
(2) Civil Service Reform
77. In an effort to control payroll costs, the Government has decided to lift the suspension of the
ordinance reforming the retirement reforms. The Government negotiated agreements with the two unions
involved (USTN and CNT) on creation of the conditions for implementation of the amendments to the
pension system that were suspended by the previous Government. Those amendments are now in force,
and 1,952 workers have already left government service. A further 1,960 government workers, of which
530 were permanent, were given severance from the Directorate of Public Works Equipment following
withdrawal by the public sector from road maintenance activities. These reforms would mean that the
wage bill would be limited to CFAF 51.4 billion in 2000, 49.6 billion in 2001, and 49.3 in 2002.
78.  The agreements with the unions call for payment of three months' back salary, in addition to
statutory separation allowances. The total cost of the agreements already signed is estimated at CFAF 1.2
billion. Under the social plan followed by the Directorate of Public Works Equipment, the cost of
allowances has been covered by IDA through the Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project.
79. In any event, government policy is to create the conditions that will lead by 2002 to compliance by
Niger with WAEMU criteria of convergence as regards the ratio of government payroll to tax revenue.
To this end, all measures taken so far to bring the payroll under control will be continued, and in
particular: (i) cutbacks in the allowances granted to senior government officials; (ii) canceling out of the
financial consequences of promotions and grade increases; (iii) application of the new rules governing
pension systems; (iv) exploitation of the potential for payroll control afforded by the integrated
Finance/Civil Service database (management of both the total wage bill and the total number of
government workers); (v) continuation of the voluntary departures program, in consultation with the
country's development partners; (vi) the contribution to the Central Government budget of resources from
local collectivities those local governments that can sustain the burden; and (vii) rationalization of the
compensation system. These various measures, in combination with the principle of strict non-
replacement of personnel who leave government service, will generate net savings of close to CFAF 2
billion.
(3)  Other "Structural" Provisions Affecting Fiscal Management
(a)  Organizational audit of the Treasury and recording ofpublic sector transactions
80. The project team for the Rehabilitation and Modernization of Public Financial Management
(PRMGFP), with support from the IDA Credit, submitted its final report in August 1999 on the
organizational and functional audit of the Treasury. The authorities, who have subscribed to the main



Annex H
Page 14 of 16
recommendations of the report, have prepared a follow-up action plan on the reorganization of the
Treasury. The implementation of certain of the recommendations, however, will require assistance from
Niger's partners.
81.  Work has already begun on a number of specific areas, with support from the PRMGFP. In
particular, efforts are under way to re-establish real-time accounting, to reconcile inter-service accounts
regularly, to simplify and clarify the nomenclature for the Treasury accounts, and to cut back on the use
of provisional holding accounts and regularize them promptly. A memorandum has already been
circulated re-establishing the same-day accounting rule, and limits have been placed on Treasury window
operating hours.
82.  Over the medium term, the action plan will deal with problems of recasting the secondary accounts
system and the delegated spending authority process, introducing tools for tracking and monitoring TG
operations and generalizing the use of double-entry bookkeeping. The reforms planned for the General
Treasury are based on recommendations of the various technical assistance missions from the Fiscal
Affairs Department of the International Monetary Fund.
(b)  Civil service integratedperformance and managementfile
83.  The "integrated database" is now in operation. It consists of a single database incorporating the
files from the Ministry of Finance (MF, Payroll Office) and those of the Ministry of Labor and
Government Modernization (MT/MA). It is updated regularly by MT/MA officers (civil service records)
and by the MF payroll office (personal data on employees with a financial impact). Since the database is
physically located in the MF, computer technicians from MT/MA must turn to the MF computer center
until networking can be established. The payroll is now edited from the new system since July.
84.  Comparative data on the payroll produced by the two systems has shown discrepancies, however,
which have been investigated by the Inspection Generale des Finances. In addition, a link to the
expenditure cycle will be established as early as possible, so that the status of drawdowns can provide an
accurate overall view of the situation of budget execution. Finally, a file on pensioners will be created
and linked to the general file. In this respect, the single database should also allow real-time updating of
staff retirement statistics to ensure that former employees do not continue to receive their salaries after
they retire.
85.  In terms of allowances control, rationalization work has already begun. The services of the two
ministries concerned (MF, MT/MA) have met and prepared a memorandum summarizing all regulatory
provisions determining the conditions for the award of allowances. This memorandum will allow
database managers to prepare an ex-ante control system for entering future data, and to program a filter
for immediate identification of anomalies in the file, a step that will speed up the process.
86.  For administering the new file, a protocol goveming access to data and information will be adopted
in order to ensure open access for decision-makers while protecting the confidentiality of data.
Meanwhile, the MT/MA will undertake the necessary surveys for examining the composition of the staff
body, the retirement forecasts, the assignments, the integration of budgetary posts, etc. Subsequently, the
DAAFs of the ministries will be integrated into the network and given responsibility for assignments,
starting with those ministries that have the largest staffs (education, health, agriculture).
87.  Over the medium term, the system of budgetary posts will make it possible to control abuse
through accurate identification of individual positions and the benefits pertaining to it. On the basis of
existing budgetary posts, classifications will be reviewed and each job will be assigned a reference



Annex H
Page 15 of 16
number. These data will then be included in the integrated database in order to avoid payment of benefits
not due. In a second stage, these data on individual administrations and services will be used to measure
the repartition of staff between their administrative level, and also to control recruitment, promotion and
consequently the overall movements of the payroll, using the average cost for a position in a given
classification and grade.
(c)   Other measures to reduce public sector expenditure
88.  Water, electricity and telephone bills of civil service entities declined during the first quarter of
2000 by about 9 percent compared with the same period of 1999, due, inter alia, to the implementation of
a decree dated August 1999, ending the spending for private purposes of the concerned utility services to
be charged to the National Budget. This decline is most apparent in electricity and water consumption,
which has fallen by more than 10 percent. It is worth emphasizing that in 1999, annual spending on these
three services grew only slightly (1 percent) for the year. In addition, the Government has authorized and
encouraged utilities to suspend service to delinquent customers, except for certain strategic structures
such as health facilities. Moreover, progress has been made with the program for installing separate
utility meters in offices and residential units. With respect to telephone service, lines with access to
international communications have been limited to five per ministry, and it is no longer possible to place
long-distance or international calls through the switchboard. More generally, entities are now given
greater responsibility for controlling their consumption. From the institutional point of view, the mandate
of the Ad Hoc Unit for Control and Management of Water, Electricity and Telephone Consumption
(CCGCEET) will be redirected towards monitoring and keeping statistics on consumption and
maintaining dialogue with utility companies and DAAFs with a view to introducing measures to control
these expenditures more effectively. In order to update its information base on such spending, the
Directorate-General of the Budget has launched an exhaustive survey of delivery points, which should
facilitate statistical monitoring.
89.  To control the impact of spending by autonomous state agencies (EPA, EPIC, etc.) charged to the
National Budget, the authorities have assigned a financial controller to major subsidy recipients. In
addition, the subsidy allocation system will be reviewed during preparation of the 2001 Appropriations
Law, on the basis of the audit conducted with IDA financing. Each beneficiary institution will now have
to submit accounts and an execution report for the previous fiscal year (1999), as well as a proposed
budget. For those entities not in a position to generate sufficient resources of their own, the State's
liability will be limited to the amount of the subsidy.
90.  Further progress has been made on the public spending review process.  Teams from the
Ministries of Public Health and National Education have completed a second exercise of this kind,
covering budgetary performance for 1998. These teams are fully familiar with the process and with the
drafting of reports, thanks to technical support from the World Bank. A first review is also now under
way for the rural sector (covering activities of the Ministries of Rural Development, Livestock Resources,
Water Resources and Environment, and Anti-Desertification).
91.  The government departments concerned are now engaged in preparing terms of reference for a
review covering: (i) overall budget execution for 1997-99; (ii) procedures for budget preparation,
execution and control; and (iii) planning for budgetary and fiscal decentralization (implementation, costs,
etc.). The country's development partners will in due course be approached for support in this effort.
92.  Where decentralization is concerned, proposals for the restructuring of deconcentrated central
government departments and local government entities are being examined.   Simultaneously,
consultations have been initiated on the question of resumption of decentralization, which would focus on



Annex H
Page 16 of 16
the 21 existing municipalities (communes) and the 36 administrative districts (arrondissements) identified
as ready for a period of testing the hand-over of responsibilities. As part of the consultation process, a
discussion workshop will be organized for senior officials of the governmental bodies concerned and
representatives of civil society to provide an opportunity for them to how the experience of other
countries with administrative reform, civil service reform, and decentralization might apply to Niger.
93.  Against this background, the Government, with World Bank help, will take steps to determine what
resources need to be made available to support the new local governments in the management of their
resources; major effort will be put into a study on resource transfers to them and the expenditures they
will be able to assume.
94.  Finally, the traditional agencies responsible for inspection and monitoring of the management of
public sector assets will be rehabilitated and strengthened so that a stop can be put to the corruption and
misappropriations of funds which disrupt the conduct of government business and increase public sector
expenditure. To these ends, a Directorate of Government Litigation has been set up, as part of the
Secretariat of the Cabinet, to review all inspection reports on public asset management and institute legal
proceedings whenever they appear to be warranted.
IV. PROGRAM FINANCING AND MANAGEMENT
95.  Implementation of the Fiscal Reform Program will require human, institutional and financial
resources that are beyond the capacity of the country to support.
96.  With respect to the technical assistance needed to implement this important program, the
Government has decided to use available resources to resort to the appropriate technical expertise, aiming
at capacity building of its staff. With this objective, the authorities are preparing a technical assistance
plan, describing identified needs for the various agencies in charge of implementing the program.
97.  However, as mentioned earlier, the scope of the reform program and the need for macroeconomic
and financial stabilization will require timely external support of both multilateral and bilateral partners in
development.
98.  Implementation of the program is being coordinated by the Ministry of Finance with the other
ministries involved, under the technical responsibility of the following divisions: the Directorates-General
of the Budget, Taxation, Customs, Treasury, Economy and Reforms, the Autonomous Center for the
Settlement of Public Sector Domestic Debt (CAADIE), and the Central Computer Service (SCI). They
will be assisted as necessary by the Public Finance modemization project
99.  In terms of monitoring, the system includes three levels: (i) the Interministerial Committee, which
is the policymaking body; (ii) the Technical Committee, responsible for preparing and monitoring
economic and financial programs; and (iii) the Monitoring Unit, responsible for preparing progress
reports on the program. These reports will first be reviewed by the Technical Committee and approved
by the Interninisterial Committee before submission to the World Bank and other donors involved in the
program.



