Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3418-NIR
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Finance Recovery Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 15, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3418-NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 2000, between Republic of Niger (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a 
letter, dated August 14, 2000, describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve transparency and 
sustainability  of the Borrower's budget management system (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support 
of the Program during the execution thereof;
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the 
actions described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of 
the Association and has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework 
satisfactory to the Association; and
Page  2
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association 
has decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the 
Borrower by making the Credit as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to 
the Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section  2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of 
the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of 
these 
General Conditions”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be  agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred 
to in the Preamble to the  Development Credit Agreement, the performance 
by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“BCEAO” means the Banque Centrale des Etats de l’Afrique de 
l’Ouest, the common central bank of the Borrower and other members of the 
WAEMU (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
“CFA Franc” means "Franc de la Communauté Financière 
Africaine”, the currency of the Borrower;
(c)
“Comité National de Suivi de la Trésorerie de l’Etat” and 
“Treasury Committee” means the committee established by Ministerial 
Page  3
Instruction No. 491/MF/RE of November 25, 1999, and responsible for the 
planning and monitoring of the Borrower’s cash resources;
(d)
“Commission ad hoc des Gestion et de Traitement des Arriérés 
Intérieurs de l’Etat” means the now dissolved commission that was 
established by the Borrower pursuant to Decree No. 98-230-PRN-MF-RE-P of 
September 1, 1998, with the mandate of carrying out the verification and 
settlement of the Borrower’s domestic arrears;
(e)
“Confédération Nationale des Travailleurs” means a 
federation of trade unions, established and operating under the laws of 
the Borrower;
(f)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(g)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the period from January 1 to 
December 31;
(h)
“Loi de réglement” means a  law passed by the Borrower’s 
National Assembly every year which reviews the execution of the budget 
law (loi des finances) for the preceding fiscal year and contains a 
consolidated statement of actual budgetary receipts and expenditures of 
the Borrower for the fiscal year under review;
(i)
“Maximum Tariff Rate” means the maximum customs duty (droit 
de douane) rate set forth in the Borrower’s yearly budget law (loi des 
finances);
(j)
“SNE” means “Société Nationale des Eaux”, a state owned 
company established and operating under the Borrower’s Ordinance No. 
87/031 of September 24, 1987;
(k)
“SONITEL” means “Société Nigérienne des Télécommunications”, 
a mixed-ownership company established and operating under the laws of the 
Borrower;
(l)
“Trésorerie Générale” means the directorate within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance that is responsible, inter 
alia, for the payment and accounting of the Borrower’s central government 
expenditures;
(m)
“Union des Syndicats de Travailleurs du Niger” means a 
federation of trade unions, established and operating under the laws of 
the Borrower; and
(n)
“WAEMU” means the West African Economic and Monetary Union, 
established by a treaty, dated January 10, 1994, among its member 
countries, namely, Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Mali, Niger, 
Senegal and Togo, and adhered to by Guinea Bissau in May 1997.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to Twenty 
Six Million Five Hundred Thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
26,500.000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) 
and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Page  4
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and 
thereafter maintain at BCEAO, a deposit account in CFA Francs on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the 
Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit 
Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Association shall have 
determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if 
the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited 
to the Credit Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each February 15 and August 15, commencing 
February 15, 2011 and ending August 15, 2040. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on August 15, 2020 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the 
Page  5
Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of 
the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time 
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on 
any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the date of the Association’s 
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Page  6
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement  is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01.The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance 
is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Finances
Ministère des Finances
B.P. 389
Niamey, Niger
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
Ministère des Finances
(227) 
735934
Niamey, Niger
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By /s/ Joseph Diatta
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Credit shall not be used to finance any of the following 
expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which 
any national or international financing institution or agency other than 
the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or 
which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmith's or
Page  8
silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores
and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of 
this paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, 
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of 
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party; 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, 
such territories or (b) on account of any payment to persons or entities, 
or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during 
the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement
The Borrower has:
1.
in accordance with the requirements of the WAEMU treaty, revised 
and implemented a new tariff structure pursuant to its Ordinance No. 
99/65 of December 20, 1999, with the effect of reducing its Maximum 
Tariff Rate;
2.
enacted Law No. 2000-003 of May 2, 2000, setting forth a new tax 
regime and increasing the value added tax rate in its territory from 
eighteen (18) to nineteen (19) percent;
3.
enacted a revised budget law for FY 2000 based on revenue 
projections consistent with its revenue mobilization capacity and 
increased, under said budget law, the budgetary allocations for health 
and education sectors pursuant to the outline set forth in paragraphs 37 
and 38 of the Program;
4.
taken adequate steps to reduce the government’s utility and 
telecommunications bill, including through the enforcement of Decree No 
99-363 of August 31, 1999, discontinuing government subsidies of private 
utility consumption of public officials pursuant to the pursuant to the 
outline set forth in paragraph 88 of the Program;
5.
re-enacted Ordinance No. 98-380 of December 24, 1998, governing the 
civil service retirement and pension regime and entered into agreements 
with the Union des Syndicats de Travailleurs du Niger and the 
Confédération Nationale des Travailleurs on the implementation of said 
Ordinance;
6.
enacted Ordinance No. 99-55 of November 22, 1999, establishing a 
Road Maintenance Fund and Decree No. 2000-101 dated April 7, 2000, 
transferring road maintenance operation to private sector operators;
Page  9
7.
launched the privatization process with respect to SONITEL and SNE, 
by selecting, through pre-qualification, potential private sector 
investors, and formally inviting such investors to submit bids;
8.
formally launched the process of awarding two cellular phone 
licenses to private operators by inviting private companies, through 
advertisement in the international press, to submit bids to that effect, 
pursuant to the outline set forth in paragraphs 53 and 54 of the Program;
9.
circulated the Prime Ministerial Instruction No. 536, dated May 29, 
2000, requiring all government agencies to execute their expenditures in 
accordance with the regulations in force in the territory of the 
Borrower's governing payments procedures;
10.
taken steps to regularize, in accordance with relevant budgetary 
and accounting rules and standards, all advance payments of public funds 
which were made during FY 2000, pursuant to the outline set forth in 
paragraphs 55 and 56 of the Program;
11.
implemented Ministerial Instruction No. 491/MF/RE of November 25, 
1999, establishing the 
Comité National de Suivi de la Trésorerie de 
l’Etat, by making said committee fully operational;
12.
issued Arrêté Ministériel No. 176 / MFDGB/DCF, dated July 20, 2000, 
nominating financial comptrollers to monitor the expenditures of the 
major autonomous public sector agencies or enterprises that benefit from 
government subsidies, pursuant to the outline set forth in paragraph 89 
of the Program;
13.
submitted to its National Assembly, a draft Loi de réglement for FY 
1997;
14.
adopted an action plan for the reorganization of the Trésorerie 
Générale, based on the recommendations of the functional audit of the 
said Trésorerie Générale performed in 2000, pursuant to the outline set 
forth in paragraph 80 of the Program;  and
16.
completed and furnished to the Association an evaluation report on 
the Commission ad hoc de Gestion des Arriérés Intérieurs de l’Etat.
