Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4828 HR 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(District Heating Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
HEP TOPLINARSTVO D.O.O 
 
Dated September 11, 2006 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4828 HR 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 11, 2006, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (
“Bank”) and HEP 
TOPLINARSTVO D.O.O. (“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) in 
connection with the Loan Agreement of same date between Hrvatska Elektroprivreda d.d. 
(“Borrower”) and the Bank (“Loan Agreement”).  The Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement or the 
General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions; and  
 
(b) 
provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.  
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, 
the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
3.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Representative is the Director. 
 
Page  3
-
3
-
3.02. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
3.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
HEP Toplinarstvo d.o.o. 
Misevecka 15a 
Zagreb 10000 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(385-1) 61 31 978 
 
AGREED at Zagreb, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Anand K. Seth  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
HEP TOPLINARSTVO D.O.O. 
 
By: /s/ Robert Krklec  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  4
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section I
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity, jointly with the Borrower, shall maintain at all 
times during Project implementation, the Project Implementation Unit, with terms of 
reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank, and competent staff in adequate 
numbers.  
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall implement the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of the Environmental Management Plan and of the Land Acquisition 
Framework, if applicable, both satisfactory to the Bank,  and shall not amend, suspend or 
abrogate any of their provisions without the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports, commencing from December 31, 2006, in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions and on the 
basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each such Project Report shall cover the period 
of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Borrower not later one (1) 
month after the end of the period covered by such report for incorporation and forwarding 
by the Borrower to the Bank of the overall Project Report.  
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall provide to the Borrower not later than 
April 30, 2010, for incorporation in the report referred to in Section 5.08 (c) of the 
General Conditions all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably 
request for the purposes of that Section.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports; Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and 
financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to 
above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.  Each audit of these 
financial statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Project 
Page  5
-
5
-
Implementing Entity.  The audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished 
to the Borrower and the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of the period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
All goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement. 
 
Section IV
.
Other Undertakings
1. 
(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity 
shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the Project Implementing Entity for 
the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later 
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, 
shall be at least 1.2 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of the 
Project Implementing Entity for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Project 
Implementing Entity, including the debt to be incurred. 
 
(b) 
 For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Project 
Implementing Entity maturing by its terms more than one (1) 
year after the date on which it is originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
 
(iii) 
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations adjusted to take account of the Project 
Implementing Entity 's
[w1][w2]
 rates
[w3]
 in effect at the 
time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not 
in effect during the twelve-month period to which such 
revenues relate and net non-operating income; and 
 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt. 
Page  6
-
6
-
(iv) 
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: 
 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
 
(v) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on debt. 
 
(vi) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: 
 
(a) 
within thirty (30) days after the new tariff methodology is approved by 
the Guarantor, through HERA, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Guarantee Agreement, 
submit a proposal to HERA for adjusting the tariffs for district heating based on the 
approved methodology; 
 
(b) 
by March 31 of each year during Project implementation, the Project 
Implementing Entity, jointly with the Borrower, review with the Bank its financial 
performance for the preceding year and the financial forecasts for the next two (2) years; 
and 
(c) 
 take appropriate actions, required for the Project Implementing Entity to 
meet its financial obligations under the Project Agreement, including proposing to HERA 
to adjust the levels and structure of tariffs for district heating which would allow the 
Project Implementing Entity, under conditions of efficient operation at reasonable levels 
of capacity utilization, to cover: its operating costs including depreciation; debt service 
payments, including debt service payments on the Loan; reduction of payment arrears, 
and provision of internally generated funds for financing of investments under the 
Project. 
 
3. 
Not later than December 31, 2006, the Project Implementing Entity shall develop 
a
Demand Side Management Program, satisfactory to the Bank; and shall initiate its 
implementation from January 15, 2007.  
Page  7
-
7
-
