Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4828 HR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(District Heating Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
HRVATSKA ELEKTROPRIVREDA D.D. 
 
Dated September 11, 2006  
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4828 HR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 11, 2006, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and HRVATSKA 
ELEKTROPRIVREDA D.D. (“Borrower”) (“Loan Agreement”).  The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions.
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty-four million Euro 
(EUR 24,000,000) (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
(b) 
The Subsidiary Guarantee Agreement has been executed between the 
Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the Guarantor, and the Borrower. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following. 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
The Subsidiary Guarantee Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Guarantor and the Borrower and is legally binding upon 
the Guarantor and the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the President of the Management Board.  
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Hrvatska Elektroprivreda d.d. 
Ulica Grada  Vukovara 37 
Zagreb 10000 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(385-1) 6170-439 
(385-1) 6322-651 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at  Zagreb, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Anand K. Seth 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
HRVATSKA ELEKTROPRIVREDA D.D. 
 
By: /s/ Ivan Mravak 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to promote efficient provision of district heating 
services by the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
A. Infrastructure 
Rehabilitation
1. 
Network rehabilitation, including replacement of a dual pipe trench, transmission 
pipes, and distribution pipes in the City of Zagreb. 
 
2. 
Network rehabilitation, including replacement of distribution pipes that are in 
poor condition and connection of customers to the main Combined Heat and Power Plant, 
and rehabilitation of selected  heating sub-stations in the City of Osijek. 
 
B. Consultancy 
Services
1. 
Development and implementation of a Demand Side Management program. 
 
2. 
Completion of two (2) customer surveys in the Cities of Zagreb and Osijek. 
 
3. 
Preparation of bidding documents for the Project. 
 
4. 
Construction supervision under the Project. 
 
5. 
Preparation of annual audits of the financial statements of the Project and of the 
Project Implementing Entity. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I
.
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A.
 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1
.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the Project Implementing Entity, 
the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing 
Entity under a separate subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and the Project 
Implementing Entity (“Subsidiary Agreement”), under terms and conditions approved by 
the Bank, which shall include the following: (a) on-lent proceeds of the Loan to be 
denominated in Euro; (b) repayment of the proceeds of the Loan over a period of fifteen 
(15) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years; (c) payment of interest on the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate 
payable by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement; and (d) payment of 
a
commitment charge on the Unwithdrawn Balance at the rate payable by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, arrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
B. Other 
covenants
 
1. 
The Borrower, jointly with the Project Implementing Entity, shall maintain at all 
times during Project implementation, the Project Implementation Unit, with terms of 
reference and resources satisfactory to the Bank, and competent staff in adequate 
numbers.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity, to 
implement the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental 
Management Plan and of the Land Acquisition Framework, if applicable, both 
satisfactory to the Bank, and shall not amend, suspend or abrogate any of their provisions 
without the prior agreement of the Bank. 
 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity, to monitor 
and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports, commencing from 
December 31, 2006, in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Page  8
-
7
-
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank and to the Guarantor not later than June 30, 2010.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank and to the Guarantor not later than one month (1) after 
the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the respective quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing 
with the fiscal year in which the Project became effective, and shall be adequate to reflect 
the operations and financial condition of the Borrower and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures of the Borrower related to the Project.  The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.  
 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods, works 
and services (other than consulting services) required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1.
 International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding (subject to additional provisions set forth in this 
 Section) 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct 
Contracting 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding.
Works estimated to cost less than 
EUR 4,200,000 equivalent per contract, and goods estimated to cost less than 
EUR 800,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions set forth in 
(i) through (viii) of this paragraph.  The Bank may, upon notice to the Borrower, increase 
the above threshold for goods to be procured on the basis of the National Competitive 
Bidding. 
(i) Procedures
The public bidding method shall apply to all contracts. 
 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Guarantor’s  Official 
Gazette (
Narodne Novine
)
and in at least one (1) widely 
circulated national daily newspaper or at the Borrower’s website, 
allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and 
submission of bids. 
(ii) 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex 
works contracts, invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be 
Page  10
-
9
-
advertised in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette (
Narodne Novine
)
and at least (1) one widely circulated national daily newspaper a 
minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the 
submission of pre-qualification applications.  Minimum 
experience, technical and financial requirements shall be 
explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents, which shall 
be determined by a ‘pass/fail’ method, not through the use of a 
merit point system. Where pre-qualification is not used, the 
qualifications of the bidder who is recommended for award of 
contract shall be assessed by post-qualification, applying 
minimum experience, technical and financial requirements 
which shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents. 
(iii) 
Participation of Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises located and operating on the 
Guarantor’s territory shall be eligible to participate in bidding 
only if they can establish, to the Bank’s satisfaction, that they are 
legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial 
laws and are not a dependent agency of the Guarantor’s 
Government.  Said enterprises shall be subject to the same bid 
and performance security requirements as other bidders. 
 (iv) 
Bidding 
Documents
Project Implementing Entity acting as procuring entity shall use 
the appropriate standard bidding documents for the procurement 
of goods, works or services, as defined in paragraph 1.1 of the 
Guidelines, which shall contain draft contract and conditions of 
contract acceptable to the Bank. 
(v) 
Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation
(1) 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope 
containing the bidder’s qualification 
information, technical and price bids, which 
shall be opened simultaneously at the public bid 
opening. 
(2) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately fter 
the deadline for submission of bids.  The name 
of the bidder, the total amount of each bid and 
any discounts offered shall be read aloud and 
Page  11
-
10
-
recorded in the minutes of the public bid 
opening. 
(3) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict 
adherence to the monetarily quantifiable criteria 
specified in the bidding documents and a merit 
point system shall not be used. 
(4) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once 
only for not more than thirty (30) days.  No 
further extensions should be granted without the 
prior approval of the Bank. 
(5) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders 
having submitted the lowest evaluated 
substantially responsive bid. 
(6) 
No preference shall apply under National 
Competitive Bidding. 
 (vi) 
Price 
Adjustment
Works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen (18) 
months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
(vii) 
Rejection of All Bids
(1) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited 
without the Bank’s prior written concurrence. 
(2) 
When the number of bids received is less than two (2), 
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Bank’s 
prior concurrence. 
 (viii) 
Securities
Bid securities should not exceed two percent (2%) of the 
estimated cost of the contract; and performance securities – not 
more than ten percent (10%).  No advance shall be made to 
contractors without a suitable advance payment security.  The 
wording of all such securities shall be included into the bidding 
documents and shall be acceptable to the Bank.  
Page  12
-
11
-
(b) 
Shopping
.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than EUR 60,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the 
Guidelines.  
(c) 
Direct Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines and such contracts shall be included in the 
Procurement Plan or its updates agreed with the Bank. 
C.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in EUR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1)  Works for Part A.1  of 
 the 
Project 
 
5,270,000 
 
100% 
(2) Goods for Part A.1 of 
 the 
Project 
 
12,600,000 
 
100% 
(3) Works for Part A.2 of 
 the 
Project 
 
2,600,000 
 
100% 
(4) Goods for Part A.2 of 
 the 
Project 
 
3,470,000 
 
100% 
Page  13
-
12
-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in EUR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(5) Front-end Fee 
 
60,000 
 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
24,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: (a) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed EUR 2,400,000 equivalent may be made for 
payments made prior to this date but on or after March 20, 2006, for Eligible 
Expenditures under all Categories, provided that the disbursement condition for 
Categories (1) and (2) set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section B.1 has been complied 
with; (b) for payments under Categories (1) and (2) unless the Borrower has furnished to 
the Bank satisfactory evidence that a contract for delivery of heat between the City of 
Zagreb and the Project Implementing Entity has been duly executed.  
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
Section V
.
Other Undertakings
1. 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur 
any debt, unless the net revenues of the Borrower for the fiscal year immediately 
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to 
the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.2 times the 
estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for any succeeding fiscal 
year on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower 
maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
Page  14
-
13
-
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
(iii) 
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations adjusted to take account of the Borrower's 
tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even 
though they were not in effect during the twelve-month 
period to which such revenues relate and net 
non-operating income; and 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt. 
(iv) 
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(v) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on debt . 
(vi) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
2. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
Page  15
-
14
-
(a) 
by March  31 of each year during Project implementation, review with 
the Bank its financial performance for the preceding year and the financial forecasts for 
the next two (2) years;  
(b) 
jointly with the Project Implementing Entity, by March 31 of each year 
during Project implementation, review with the Bank the financial performance of the 
Project Implementing Entity for the preceding year and the financial forecasts for the 
next two (2) years; and 
(c) 
take appropriate actions required for the Project Implementing Entity to 
meet its financial obligations under the Project Agreement, including proposing to HERA 
the adjustment of the levels and structure of tariffs for district heating which would allow 
the Project Implementing Entity, under conditions of efficient operation at reasonable 
levels of capacity utilization, to cover: its operating costs including depreciation; debt 
service payments, including debt service payments on the Loan; reduction of payment 
arrears, and provision of internally generated funds for financing of investments under 
the Project. 
3. 
Not later than October 31, 2006, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an agreed 
schedule to eliminate the Project Implementing Entity’s arrears to the Borrower with 
respect to the purchase of heat and steam, and shall thereafter implement said schedule, in 
line with the Guarantor’s applicable tariff regulations and in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Euro)
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
 
beginning March 15, 2012 
 
 
through September 15, 2021 
1,200,000.00 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Class No. 310-02/06-
02/05, Reg. No. 5030122-06-01” means the Conclusion of the Government of the 
Republic of Croatia adopted on May 5, 2006, (No. 310-02/06-02/05) which sets 
forth a framework (2007-2010) for development of the district heating sector in 
the Republic of Croatia, to be implemented by MOELE and supported through 
the state budget, including measures for improving sustainability of district 
heating companies, supporting low-income and vulnerable groups under the 
existing social assistance program, and introducing Demand Side Management. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
4. 
“Demand Side Management” means a system which allows consumers to 
regulate heat consumption and provides for billing the end-users of district 
heating for actual consumption, as determined through installment of equipment 
for measuring district heating consumption in households. 
 
5. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means a plan adopted by the Borrower, 
describing the environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures 
for the Project.  
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005.  
 
7. 
“HEP d.d.” means Hrvatska Elektroprivreda d.d., a power company established 
pursuant to the Statute of the Joint Stock Company Hrvatrska Elektroprivreda 
d.d. dated July 4, 1995, registered in the commercial court in Zagreb on 
July 24, 1995 (No. 95/680-2), as amended. 
 
8. 
“HERA” means Hrvatska Energetska Regulatorna Agencija (the Croatian Energy 
Regulatory Agency) established pursuant to the Law on Energy (177/2004), or 
any legal successor thereto. 
 
9. 
“Land Acquisition Framework” means  a document “Framework for Real Estate 
Acquisition and Establishment of the Right of Servitude” adopted by the 
Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity which sets forth policies and 
procedures, in accordance with the Guarantor’s applicable  laws and regulations, 
Page  18
-
17
-
to be followed in case of land acquisition for carrying out of the Project 
activities. 
 
10. 
“MOELE” means the Guarantor’s Ministry of Economy, Labor and 
Entrepreneurship, or any legal successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 10, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
13. 
 “Project Implementing Entity” means HEP Toplinarstvo, a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Hrvatska Elektroprivreda d.d., established pursuant to the Act on 
Establishment of the Limited Liability Company HEP Toplinarstvo d.o.o., dated 
May 18, 2001, registered in the commercial court in Zagreb on March 1, 2004, 
(No. 01/2981-2). 
 
14. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
15. 
“Subsidiary Guarantee Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between the Ministry of Finance and the Borrower which shall set forth the terms  
of providing a guarantee for the Loan by the Guarantor. 
 
