Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  03/27/2006 
Report No.:  AC2216
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Croatia 
Project ID:  P095389 
Project Name:  DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT 
Task Team Leader:  Sudipto Sarkar 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 28, 2006 
Estimated Board Date: May 25, 2006 
Managing Unit:  ECSIE 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  District heating and energy efficiency services (100%) 
Theme:  Other urban development (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
28.80 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
14.05 
 Financing 
Gap 
0.00
14.05 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objective of the project is to promote efficient operations by Hrvatska 
Elektroprivreda Toplinarstvo (HEP T).   
 
3. Project Description 
The project will finance the following two components.  
 
A. Infrastructure Rehabilitation.  This component includes the following investments in 
Zagreb and Osijek:  
 
•
Zagreb: Network rehabilitation, including replacement of a dual pipe trench (35 
km), transmission pipes (20 km), and distribution pipes (15 km).  These investments were 
identified as priority rehabilitation investments where energy and water losses are high; 
and  
 
•
Osijek: Network rehabilitation, including replacement of distribution pipes (15 
km) that are in poor condition and connection of customers to the main CHP plant who 
are currently connected to the inefficient local heat only boilers. In addition, 
rehabilitation of 25 heating sub-stations will be supported. Further, for some consumers 
(heat load of 6MW) the heat supply will be switched from steam to hot water.  
Page  2
B.  Consultancy financed by HEP T.  This component includes the following and will be 
fully financed by HEP T.  
 
•
Development of a Demand Side Management (DSM) Program by December 31, 
2006.  Under this program, HEP T will look at options to promote voluntary installation 
of DSM equipment.  To the extent possible, HEP T will provide incentives to consumers 
to install the equipment;  
 
•
Completion of 2 surveys in the cities of Zagreb and Osijek to understand and 
respond to the needs of the consumers.  The first survey will be carried out in the first 
year of project implementation.  The second survey will be carried out in the fourth year 
of project implementation to determine the impact of the project;  
 
•
Preparation of bidding documents;  
 
•
Construction supervision; and  
 
•
Preparation of annual audits of the financial statements of the project and HEP T.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will be located in the cities of Zagreb and Osijek.  Old pipes will be replaced 
with steel pipes with polyurethane foam as a heat insulator and an outer casing of high 
density polyethylene (HDPE).  These pre-insulated pipes will help to reduce heat losses 
and are more durable than the ones currently used to supply heat.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Norval Stanley Peabody (ECSSD) 
Ms Ruxandra Maria Floroiu (ECSSD) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The Bank’s safeguard policies on Environmental Assessment and Involuntary 
Resettlement (for possible land acquisition only; there is no resettlement due to the 
Page  3
project) will be triggered.  For the former, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) 
has been prepared to identify minor environmental concerns during construction and 
provision of service.  The EMP also includes a mitigation and monitoring plan.  For the 
latter, a land acquisition framework has been prepared by HEP T which outlines the 
process to be followed in case there is land acquisition.  However, it is unlikely that land 
will have to be acquired as the proposed rehabilitation is for existing networks where 
HEP T has the right of way.  HEP T has adequate capacity to implement the EMP and the 
land acquisition process is in line with Bank’s guidelines.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
No long term impacts related to Bank's safeguards are expected.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
For the environment, HEP T has prepared the EMP and will work with the city officials 
in Zagreb and Osijek to monitor the mitigative activities proposed in the EMP. For the 
land acquisition, HEP T has prepared the land acquisition framework.  HEP T has the 
capacity to implement the EMP and the land acquisition framework, if required.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The consumers that use district heating services in the cities of Zagreb and Osijek are the 
stakeholders.  The EMP was discussed in public meetings (Zagreb - 12/13/2005; and 
Osijek - 12/5/2005) where no major concerns were raised.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
01/25/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
12/07/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
03/10/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/10/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/16/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
03/22/2006 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
Page  4
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  5
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Sudipto Sarkar 
03/27/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Ruxandra Maria Floroiu 
03/13/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Norval Stanley Peabody 
03/24/2006 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer 
03/27/2006 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Motoo Konishi 
03/27/2006 
Comments:  Cleared 
