                                    Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00001559



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-48280)



                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 24.0 MILLION
                        (US$29.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO
                         HRVATSKA ELEKTROPRIVREDA

           WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

                                        FOR A

                           DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT

                                  December 16, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Central Europe and the Baltic Countries Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                (Exchange Rate Effective June, 30 2010)

                 Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna (HRK)
                           1 = HRK 7.1634
                           1 = US$ 1.2233

                            FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 - December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CFAS    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CHP     Combined Heat and Power
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
DH      District Heating
DSM     Demand Side Management
ERR     Economic Rate o f Return
EU      European Union
FM      Financial Management
FMS     Financial Management System
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
GEF     Global Environment Facility
HEP     Hrvatska Elektroprivreda
HEP T   Hrvatska Elektroprivreda Toplinarstvo
HERA    Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency
IFR     Interim Financial Report
INT     Department of Institutional Integrity
KWh     Kilowatt hour
MOELE   Ministry of Economy, Labor, and Entrepreneurship
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MWh     Megawatt hour
PIU     Project Implementation Unit

             Vice President:        Philippe Le Houerou
             Country Director:      Peter Harrold
             Sector Manager:        Ranjit J. Lamech
             Project Team Leader:   Pekka Kalevi Salminen
             ICR Team Leader:       Pekka Kalevi Salminen
                                               CROATIA
                                       DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT



                                                     CONTENTS

Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

1.       Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1 
2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................... 5 
3.       Assessment of Outcomes ......................................................................................... 9 
4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...................................................... 13 
5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................. 14 
6.       Lessons Learned..................................................................................................... 17 
7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........ 18 

ANNEX 1. Project Costs and Financing........................................................................... 19 
ANNEX 2: Outputs by Component .................................................................................. 20 
ANNEX 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.................................................................. 22 
ANNEX 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............. 25 
ANNEX 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................ 27 
ANNEX 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 32 
ANNEX 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 33 
ANNEX 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders........................ 45 
ANNEX 9. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................... 46 
ANNEX 10. MAP ............................................................................................................ 47 
A. Basic Information
Country:                Croatia                   Project Name:             District Heating Project
Project ID:             P095389                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-48280
ICR Date:               12/16/2010                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            HRVATSKA
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:                 ELEKTROPRIVREDA
                                                                            (HEP)
Original Total
                        USD 29.8M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 33.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 29.8M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 HEP Toplinarstvo
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/17/2005      Effectiveness:             03/09/2007         03/09/2007
Appraisal:             04/06/2006      Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/20/2006      Mid-term Review:           02/23/2009         02/13/2009
                                       Closing:                   06/30/2010         06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory              Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                  Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                      Performance:




                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
District heating and energy efficiency services                       100              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 50                  50
Other urban development                                                50                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Peter C. Harrold                     Anand K. Seth
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                     Peter D. Thomson
Project Team Leader:       Pekka Kalevi Salminen                Sudipto Sarkar
ICR Team Leader:           Pekka Kalevi Salminen
ICR Primary Author:        Sati Achath


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project objective was to promote efficient operations by HEP T. This objective was
to be met by: (a) reducing energy and water losses through rehabilitation of the network
and closure of non-economic boilers in Osijek; (b) increasing the profitability of HEP T
by promoting cost recovery tariffs, assuming that the Government allowed tariffs to be
adjusted as per HEP T's proposal; and (c) increasing the level of customer satisfaction by
understanding their needs through surveys and implementing a voluntary DSM program
in Zagreb and Osijek.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable


                                                  ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval            Target        Completion or
                                              documents)           Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Zagreb: Energy Loss (% of heat generated)
Value
quantitative or   12.2%                     10.2%                             9.45%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                06/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %          End of project target in Zagreb was exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Zagreb: Ratio of water added to the network volume
Value
quantitative or   26.5                      23.0                              22.6
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                06/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %          End of project target was exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Zagreb: Net Profit/Revenues
Value
quantitative or   -11.3%                    0.5%                              -17.8% in 2009
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                06/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
                  End of project target was not achieved due to reasons outside the control of HEP
(incl. %
                  T (inadequate tariffs approved by the Government).
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Zagreb: Customer Satisfaction has been improved
                                           90% of the
                84% of the customers feel customers feel that                85% of customers
Value
                that the services are good the services are                  surveyed feel that
quantitative or
                (survey done in June       good (survey to be                the services are
Qualitative)
                2007)                      done at end of                    good
                                           project)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                   06/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
                Survey results in 2010 indicate customer satisfaction approximately same level
(incl. %
                as in 2007.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Osijek: Energy Loss (% of heat generated)
Value
quantitative or 11.0%                      10.0%                             6.8%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2005                   06/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments        End of project target exceeded


                                                   iii
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Osijek: Ratio of water added to the network volume
Value
quantitative or   11.5                      9.0                                5.9
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                06/30/2010                         06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %          End of project target exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Osijek: Net profit/revenues
Value
quantitative or   -11.3%                    0.5%                               -24.9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                06/30/2010                         06/30/2010
Comments
                  End of project target not achieved due to reasons outside the control of HEP T
(incl. %
                  (inadequate levels of tariffs approved by the Government)
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Osijek: Cusomer Satisfaction has been improved.
                                                                               89% of customers
                90% of the customers feel
Value                                                                          feel that the
                that the services are good
quantitative or                            90%                                 services are good
                (survey done in June
Qualitative)                                                                   (survey done in
                2007)
                                                                               2010)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                 06/30/2010                            06/30/2010
Comments
              2010 survey results indicate approximately same level of customer satisrfaction
(incl. %
              as in 2007.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                               approval                          Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                              documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Zagreb: Percentage of Planned Rehabilitation Completed
Value
                                                                               90% by closing
(quantitative     0%                        100%
                                                                               date
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                06/30/2010                         06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Target 90% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Zagreb: Ratio of receivables to sales (days)
Value
(quantitative     102                       78                                 138 in 2009
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                06/30/2010                         06/30/2010


                                                    iv
Comments
                  Target of 78 days was not achieved due to difficulties in enforcing collections
(incl. %
                  from customers.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Zagreb: Ratio of payables to cash operating expense (days)
Value
(quantitative     259                       122                                 234 in 2009
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                06/30/2010                          06/30/2010
Comments
                  Target of 122 days not achieved due to HEP T's financial constraints resulting
(incl. %
                  from inadequate tariffs approved by the Government.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Zagreb: Operating Ratio
Value
(quantitative     1.11                      0.98                                1.18 in 2009
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                06/30/2010                          06/30/2010
Comments
                  Target of 1.98 was not achieved due to HEP T's financial constraints resulting
(incl. %
                  from inadequate tariffs approved by the Government.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Zagreb: Total number of domestic connections
Value
(quantitative     96,000                    98,000                              99,646 in 2009
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                06/30/2010                          06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %          End of project target was exceeded by about 1.600 new customers.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Osijek: Percentage of planned rehabilitation completed.
Value
(quantitative     0%                        100%                                65%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                06/30/2010                          06/30/2010
Comments
                  In Osijek, about 65% of planned pipes were replaced because of higher than
(incl. %
                  expected installation costs.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Osijek: Ratio of receivables to sales (days)
Value
(quantitative     102                       78                                  115 in 2009
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                06/30/2010                          06/30/2010
Comments
                  Target of 78 days was not achieved due to difficulties in enforcing collections
(incl. %
                  from customers.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Osijek: Ratio of payables to cash operating expense (days)
Value
(quantitative     259                       122                                 241 in 2009
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                06/30/2010                          06/30/2010


                                                   v
Comments
                  Target of 122 days not achieved due to HEP T's financial constraints resulting
(incl. %
                  from inadequate tariffs approved by the Government.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Osijek: Operating Ratio
Value
(quantitative     1.11                       0.98                                   1.20 in 2009
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 06/30/2010                             06/30/2010
Comments
                  Target of 0.98 was not achieved due to HEP T's financial constraints resulting
(incl. %
                  from inadequate tariffs approved by the Government.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Osijek: Total number of domestic connections
Value
(quantitative     10,100                     10,500                                 10,384 in 2009
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                 06/30/2010                             06/30/2010
Comments
                  99% achieved. The actual number of DH customers in Osijek is about 110
(incl. %
                  households less than targeted.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                         Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                              IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                     (USD millions)
  1     03/14/2007             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     04/03/2008         Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   10.57
                                Moderately                     Moderately
  3     12/18/2008                                                                               15.76
                              Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory
                                Moderately                     Moderately
  4     05/16/2009                                                                               15.76
                              Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory
                                Moderately
  5     12/24/2009                                        Moderately Satisfactory                24.02
                              Unsatisfactory
                                Moderately
  6     06/09/2010                                             Satisfactory                      30.38
                              Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                     vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


1.1.   Context at Appraisal

Country Background: Croatia is a middle-income country with, in 2006, a population of about
4.4 million and a per capita income of US$5,600 equivalent. Croatia launched negotiations for
European Union (EU) accession in October 2005, and the country's overarching strategic goal
has been to integrate with the EU as a dynamic and competitive economy, and to achieve rapid
convergence with EU living standards. The Bank supported Croatia's development objectives
through the FY05-FY08 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), and continues to support them
through the FY09-FY12 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS).

Sector Background: The District Heating (DH) sector started in Croatia in the mid 1960s with
the construction of the Zagreb DH network. At appraisal in 2006, there were 10 district heating
(DH) companies in the major cities and towns, serving about 400,000 people (about 10 % of
Croatia's total population). The DH services were provided by subsidiaries of a national
company ­ Hrvatska Elektroprivreda (HEP) - and by municipal companies, except in Rijeka
where the DH company was jointly owned by the municipality and the private sector. For the
cities of Zagreb and Osijek, covered under the project, DH services were provided by HEP T, a
subsidiary of HEP, covering about 82% of the total number of customers in the Croatian DH
sector.

Sector Issues: The main issues were:

        Rehabilitating the sector: Due to the paucity of funds the networks in the DH
companies were not well maintained and replaced in a timely manner. This led to frequent
breakdowns which affected the quality of services and resulted in heat and hot water losses. In
Zagreb, the average number of breakdowns per kilometer of the network was around four, which
was eight times higher than the average number of breakdowns in Western European countries.
Similarly, the heat losses in the networks were around 15-25%, compared to a figure of around
5-10% in EU-15 countries. There was thus a need to systematically identify the rehabilitation
priorities in all DH companies and determine funding possibilities for network rehabilitation.

        Introducing cost recovery tariffs: Most DH companies were able to cover their cash
operating expenses - fuel, materials, and salaries. However, in many cases, the tariffs did not
cover depreciation, which limited the ability of the companies to invest in upgrading the DH
network. For most DH companies, about 75-80% of the cash operating expenses were for fuel,
making the profitability of the companies very dependent on movements in international gas and
oil prices. Therefore, a tariff system that was linked to the price of fuel and included depreciation
charges needed to be considered.

        Introducing Demand Side Management (DSM): Consumers were not able to control
their consumption, and their bills were based on the surface area of their apartment and not on


                                                 1
actual consumption. This often led to energy wastage as consumers controlled their heat intake
by opening and closing windows. Experience in other countries in the region had shown that the
use of regulators to control consumption and cost allocators to distribute the costs registered in a
building sub-station among the apartments leads to savings in household energy consumption
and increased comfort. Although the new DH Law required that new buildings using DH should
have DSM through heat meters, there was no regulatory requirement for existing customers to
use DSM, although they could do so voluntarily. Given that most consumers were the existing
ones, the DH Law needed to be amended to make it mandatory to install DSM equipment by a
specified deadline. This was required to promote the use of DSM as seen in other countries in the
region.

Government Actions: The Government accepted the need to strengthen the DH sector as an
economical way to provide heat to densely populated areas where DH networks existed. To this
end, in March 2005 the Law on Production, Distribution and Supply of Thermal Energy (DH
Law) was adopted. In early 2005, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency (HERA) was also
formed which had a mandate to regulate the entire energy sector including the DH segment.
This was followed in May 2006 by a Government Conclusion concerning a framework for the
development and implementation of a DH Strategy. Responsibility for the development and
implementation of the DH Strategy was assigned to the Ministry of Economy, Labor and
Entrepreneurship (MoELE).

Rationale for Bank assistance: The FY05-FY08 CAS for Croatia supported, inter alia, activities
that would help Croatia to accede to the EU and meet EU directives. This remains the thrust of
the FY09-FY12 CPS which followed the earlier CAS. The project included support for DSM
through a voluntary program to be implemented by HEP T and policy changes under the
implementation of the Government's DH Strategy. DSM was expected to help reduce energy
consumption in buildings, resulting in reduction of carbon dioxide emissions as per the EU
Directive that made specific reference to energy efficiency for the DH sector. The project was
also expected to support Croatia's efforts to meet the Kyoto Protocol requirements through the
energy savings enabled through the project investments. Through its support for a significant
number of DH operations in other countries, the Bank had gained substantial experience in
policy, institutional, and investment aspects of the sector, which it could bring to the benefit of
the project. In addition, at the time of project preparation, the Bank was supporting the
implementation of two energy projects in Croatia, namely, Energy Efficiency Project and the
Renewable Energy Project, that had deepened its knowledge of the sector issues in Croatia.

1.2.   Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project objective was to promote efficient operations by HEP T. This objective would be
met by: (a) reducing energy and water losses through rehabilitation of the network and closure of
non-economic boilers in Osijek; (b) increasing the profitability of HEP T by promoting cost-
recovery tariffs, assuming that the Government allowed tariffs to be adjusted as per HEP T's
proposal; and (c) increasing the level of customer satisfaction by understanding their needs
through surveys and implementing a voluntary DSM program in Zagreb and Osijek, based on the
positive results of a pilot program that was carried out in Zagreb by HEP T which resulted in
energy savings of around 10-20% in apartments..



                                                 2
The key indicators, taken from Annex 3 of the PAD, were specified separately for the Zagreb
and Osijek divisions of HEP T and are summarized below:
    Reducing energy and water losses: the project outcome indicator was the percentage
       share of the losses in total production/usage, and the intermediate outcome indicator was
       the percentage of rehabilitation completed;
    Improved profitability of HEP T the project outcome indicator was the ratio of net profit
       to revenues, and the intermediate outcome indicators were the ratios of receivables to
       sales revenues; payables to cash operating expenses; and operating expenses to operating
       revenues (operating ratio); and
    Increasing the level of customer satisfaction by understanding their needs through
       surveys and implementing a voluntary DSM program in Zagreb and Osijek: the project
       outcome indicator was customer satisfaction ratio (percentage of customers satisfied with
       the service) and the intermediate outcome indicator was the number of domestic
       connections.

1.3.   Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The objective was not revised.

1.4.   Main Beneficiaries

Primarily the project beneficiaries were, and will be, the customers of DH services in Zagreb and
Osijek through the benefits received from more reliable, uninterrupted supply of heat and steam
enabled by the investments under the project. Larger economic and environmental benefits were
expected to include the positive impacts through lower fuel consumption, water savings, reduced
carbon emissions and reduced air pollution. Institutionally, the rehabilitation activities under the
project were expected to help HEP T to improve its operating efficiency, including reducing its
repair and maintenance expenses, and contribute thereby to improving its financial position.

1.5.   Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of two components as follows:

Component 1. Infrastructure Rehabilitation; US$40.61 million

This component included the following investments:

Zagreb: Network rehabilitation, including replacement of a dual pipe trench (35 km),
transmission pipes (20 km), and distribution pipes (15 km). These investments were identified as
priority rehabilitation investments where energy and water losses were high. HEP T would
contribute by procuring pipes and the Bank loan would finance the installation works and pipe
parts.




                                                 3
Osijek: Network rehabilitation, including replacement of distribution pipes (15 km) that were in
poor condition and connection to the main CHP plant of customers who were connected to the
inefficient local heat only boilers. In addition, rehabilitation of 25 heating sub-stations would be
supported. Further, for some consumers (heat load of 6 MW) the heat supply would be switched
from steam to hot water.

Component 2. Consultancy Services; US$3.60 million

This component, fully financed by HEP T, included the following:

     Development of a DSM Program by December 31, 2006. Under this program, HEP T
would look at options to promote voluntary installation of DSM equipment. To the extent
possible, HEP T would provide incentives to consumers to install the equipment. The incentives
that were considered were: a different tariff structure for consumers that install the equipment
compared to those that did not; and a one-time rebate for consumers that installed the equipment.
From 2007, HEP T would implement its DSM Program which was expected to be implemented
rapidly once the DH Law was amended making the installation of the equipment mandatory.

     Completion of two surveys in the cities of Zagreb and Osijek to understand and respond
to the needs of the consumers. The first survey would be carried out in the first year of project
implementation. The second survey would be carried out in the fourth year of project
implementation to determine the impact of the project.

       Preparation of bidding documents

       Construction supervision

       Preparation of annual audits for the project and HEP T.

1.6.   Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7.   Other significant changes

There were no changes in the project's design, schedule, scope and scale, and implementation
arrangements. However, there were changes in the project's funding allocation as mentioned
below:

Reallocation of funds among categories. During implementation, more loan funds were used for
the works categories than originally planned and less for the goods categories. There were two
reasons for the above: (i) HEP T had financed from its own funds a larger part of goods than
originally planned including insulation of existing steel pipes and procurement of pre-insulated
pipes; and (ii) the costs of works were higher than estimated during project preparation. Thus
there was a need to reallocate more funds to the works categories which was done in December
2009.


                                                 4
2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1.   Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Background: The project was the first initiative in Croatia to improve the operations of major
DH companies in a systematic manner. The project's preparation started in 1999 but, in 2002,
the Government and the Bank agreed to suspend further preparation pending satisfactory
resolution of certain policy and institutional issues that the Bank judged to be vital based on
lessons learned from its experience in similar projects in other countries. These requirements
were: (i) a DH law should be in place; (ii) HEP T should have its own financial statements; (iii)
staff should be transferred from HEP to HEP T; and (iv) an agreement should be in place
between HEP and HEP T in regard to service obligation and operation. These requirements
were deemed to be met by 2005 and appraisal took place in 2006.

Soundness of background analysis: Sufficient diagnostic work had been done prior to the
design of the project. A detailed feasibility study was conducted which defined the proposed
investments and the expected benefits of the project. The proposed investments were assessed to
be technically viable, well tested, and not complicated to put in place. A cost benefit analysis
was performed which resulted in satisfactory economic and financial rates of return in both
Zagreb and Osijek, justifying the investments. Financial management, procurement, and
environmental impact assessment reviews were undertaken, and the findings confirmed
acceptability of the arrangements.

Assessment of project design: A number of alternatives were considered in arriving at the
chosen design which was to make the Bank loan to HEP for on-lending to HEP T, with the
Government's commitment to undertake key actions (development of a satisfactory tariff
methodology, tariff adjustments, and development of a DSM Program) in regard to the enabling
environment to be reflected in dated covenants in the Guarantee Agreement. A key feature of
the institutional design was the establishment of HEP T as a separate entity responsible for heat
and steam distribution activities whereas heat and steam production continued to be with HEP
through its combined heat and power (CHP) plants. Alternatives considered but ultimately
rejected included: (i) a sector-wide approach covering all the DH companies in Croatia, not
pursued because of the uncertainty regarding the viability of some of the smaller companies and
the complications that it would raise for project implementation; (ii) inclusion of a technical
assistance component financed from the Bank loan, not pursued because the Government
decided to implement these items through its own financing; and (iii) lending directly to HEP T,
not pursued because HEP T was not yet profitable whereas HEP, the parent company, was the
national-level power company with experience in working with the Bank on two other ongoing
projects. Also, according to the statutes of HEP, daughter companies were not allowed to take
on debt, only the parent company HEP could assume debt.

Principal lessons learned from the Bank's experience with similar projects in other countries
that were reflected in project design were: (i) the policy and institutional environment has to be
correct ­ this included the passage of the DH Law; establishment of the energy regulatory
agency, HERA; establishment of HEP T as a distinct separate entity with its own accounts; and
Croatia's commencement of EU accession negotiations with the EU, thus signaling intentions to
meet EU directives on energy and follow DH practices, including DSM, that are common in EU


                                                5
member countries; and (ii) the need to promote DSM - since this was expected to benefit the DH
customers by allowing better control of DH expenses as well as the DH companies by increasing
the project's sustainability.

Adequacy of government commitment: The Government demonstrated its commitment to              the
project and its objectives through the several steps, including passage of the DH Law and     the
establishment of HERA, that it took towards strengthening the enabling environment            for
improving the efficiency of the DH sector, and agreeing to specific undertakings in           the
Guarantee Agreement.

Risk Assessment. The major area of risk was correctly identified as the timely approval of
adequate tariffs to enable HEP T to carry out its operations and meet its financial obligations.
One risk identified in the PAD was delay in development of an appropriate tariff methodology.
Another risk was delays by the Government in sanctioning adequate tariff increases. Both risks
were to be mitigated through appropriate covenants in the Guarantee Agreement. The first risk
did not materialize as a tariff methodology was put in place by HERA by December 2006 as
agreed under the Guarantee Agreement. The second risk, delays by the Government in
sanctioning required tariff increases, continued to be a major risk throughout the project
implementation period. However, in effect, for the reasons explained in Section 2.1, the delays
did not adversely affect the implementation of the project investments or HEP T's DH service
operations.

2.2.   Implementation

Physical investments:      Implementation of the physical investments under the project was
satisfactory and the project was completed within the originally planned period. In 2008 HEP T
encountered difficulties in receiving competitively priced bids for pipe installation and HEP T's
recently appointed new Supervisory Board, which was not familiar with the Bank's procurement
process, decided not to approve any bids. This resulted in a one-year delay in implementation,
but HEP T recovered the delay in 2009.

Areas where the physical targets were exceeded included the following: (i) the actual reduction
of heat losses is larger than estimated at appraisal both in Zagreb and Osijek; (ii) similarly the
reduction of actual water losses is higher than estimated at appraisal, and (iii) reduction of
operation, maintenance, and repair cost is higher than estimated at appraisal. These physical
targets were exceeded because HEP T selected the sections of the pipelines with the biggest
losses to benefit from the project investments.

Areas where some difficulties were encountered were the following: (i) the total length of pipe
replacement was less than expected due to higher that estimated installation costs, in Zagreb
about 94 percent of planned pipes were replaced and in Osijek about 65%. Despite the smaller
amount of pipe replaced the reduction in heat and water losses was larger than anticipated at
appraisal.

Demand Side Management. The government analyzed different ways of implementing the DSM
in apartment buildings. The main issue was whether to change the legislation to require



                                                6
obligatory implementation of DSM measures by tenants or modify the legislation to allow
voluntary DSM implementation. The Bank team assisted the Government by arranging a DSM
workshop in Zagreb in October 2005 with several lecturers from other countries, from private
and public sectors.

After analyzing the alternatives the Government decided to proceed with a voluntary DSM
implementation. If the DSM had been made obligatory, major changes in the legislation would
have been needed. In November 2008 the legislation and regulations were changed to specify
the conditions and requirements for voluntary DSM measures in apartment buildings. These
included: (i) assigning the responsibility for the installation of heat cost allocators (HCA) and
thermostatic radiator valves (TRV) to apartment owners, which included procurement,
installation and maintenance, (ii) at least 50 percent of apartments have to be equipped with
HCA and TRV as a technical requirement for connecting the building to consumption based
billing. Since the passing of the regulation a private company has started providing service for
DSM in Zagreb and Osijek. However in the current situation the tenants do not have financial
incentives to make decisions to invest in DSM measures because the heat tariffs are low and
savings of even 20 percent of annual heat consumption are not adequate to pay back the
investments.

Institutional and policy aspects: The project was implemented during a period marked by rapid
increases in international prices of fuel and energy, with particularly sharp increases since 2008.
This resulted in sharp increases in power and heat production costs for HEP which in turn led to
resulting increases in HEP T's costs of heat and steam purchased from HEP. Timely and
adequate adjustments in HEP T's sales tariff were therefore critical to its financial viability. In
regard to tariffs, a tariff methodology was put in place by HERA by December 2006 in line with
the agreed schedule. However, Government approvals for timely and adequate increases were
delayed reflecting the sensitivity of increasing DH prices, and tariffs remained substantially
below cost-recovery levels throughout the project implementation period. While this resulted in
a serious decline in HEP T's financial performance (see Section 3.2), it did not adversely affect
timely completion of the physical investments or unduly affect HEP T's operating efficiency
since HEP T was able to provide the required local financing by building up payment arrears to
HEP. The situation was sustained because of the special parent-subsidiary relationship between
HEP and HEP T, but would not have been sustainable under different circumstances.

2.3.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. The project provided for development and outcome indicators to assess progress
in meeting the project implementation targets and objectives in Zagreb and Osijek. The project
development indicators were: energy loss (% of heat generated); ratio of water added to the
network volume; net profit revenues; and customer satisfaction. The intermediate outcome
indicators were: percentage of rehabilitation completed; ratio of receivables to sales; ratio of
payables to cash operating expenses; operating ratio; and total number of domestic connections.
These indicators would be monitored over time against target values and the results would be
available to the Bank in the Project Progress Reports prepared by HEP T on a semi-annual basis.




                                                7
M&E implementation. HEP-T regularly collected data according to both the technical and
financial indicators developed during project preparation. These data, which were updated
annually, were closely monitored and the actual figures were compared with the target values.
For example, under technical indicators, data on fuel consumption, heat production, electricity
production, heat losses and breakdowns in the main DH system were monitored and analyzed.

M&E utilization. The indicators were linked to expected outcomes, which in turn were linked to
project objectives, which made it easy to establish progress. HEP T paid attention to meeting
annual targets for each indicator and if a target was missed, a discussion of why that had
happened and how to make improvements ensued between the Bank and HEP T.

2.4.   Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Financial Management. Throughout the project, a satisfactory financial management system was
maintained by HEP T and the company regularly submitted quarterly financial monitoring
reports and annual audit reports to the Bank.

Procurement. The project was implemented according to Bank procurement guidelines The
Bank procurement specialist was based in Zagreb, which greatly facilitated addressing any
procurement issues that arose during implementation.

Environment. The project was subject to the Bank's OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment and
OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement and it was rated as a category B project. During
implementation there were no environmental issues raised and the Environmental Management
Plan was followed by HEP T. Although no land resettlement was envisaged due to the Project,
a Land Acquisition Policy Framework was prepared during project preparation in the unlikely
event that HEP T would have to acquire land for the proposed rehabilitation works under the
project. Implementation of the project did not require any land acquisition.

2.5.   Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Transition arrangements. HEP T is an ongoing company providing important service in Zagreb
and Osijek. The company has adequate capacity to operate effectively after the project and the
demand for their services would not decline. Both companies (HEP and HEP T) have effective
management and a supervisory structure that would ensure proper operations of these utilities.
However, HEP T needs to rehabilitate the aging distribution network as the project replaced only a
small portion of the networks in Zagreb and Osijek (around 10%). Although, this type of
rehabilitation is economically and financially sound due to the savings created by reducing energy
and water losses, the challenge is to have sufficient internal resources to mobilize the financing
required for the rehabilitation. The implementation of cost recovery tariffs is the key factor outside
the control of the companies, which will determine the amount of resources that could be generated
for investments.

Performance indicators. Key Performance Indicators were part of the regular company
operations and this information was available for company managers and shareholders. The same
set of monitoring and evaluation indicators that were developed under the project will continue
to be used by HEP T. Investments made under the project are expected to have a positive impact


                                                 8
on reduction of energy and water losses and operating and maintenance costs for those sections
of the pipeline that were replaced over the lifetime of the pipes, i.e. about 20 years.

Follow-on project. HEP T has expressed interest in the Bank's involvement in its 10 year
investment program including DH projects. However at this stage, no Bank follow-up action is
planned as other financing may be available due to Croatia's expected EU membership.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1.   Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objective to promote efficient operations by HEP T is clear, relevant, and important within
Croatia's economic development. It is timely and appropriate to the current needs of the
country's energy sector. The project is also consistent with the Bank's current Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Croatia, which like its predecessor CAS, continues to support
activities that will facilitate Croatia's planned integration in the EU and its ability to meet EU
directives. Project outcomes including reduction in energy loss and water loss, reduced carbon
emissions and reduced air pollution, together with project support for DSM, are in line with
objectives being pursued in other EU countries.

3.2.   Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The overall objective to promote efficient operations by HEP T was to be met by: (i) reducing
energy and water losses through rehabilitation of the network and closure of non-economic
boilers in Osijek; (ii) improving the profitability of HEP T by promoting cost recovery tariffs,
assuming that the Government allowed tariffs to be adjusted as per HEP T's proposal; and (iii)
increasing the level of customer satisfaction by understanding their needs through surveys and
implementing a voluntary DSM program in Zagreb and Osijek. Two out of the above-mentioned
three objectives were met. Achievement of the first and third sub-objectives is rated satisfactory
as discussed below. However, the sub-objective of improved profitability of HEP T could not be
achieved, largely for reasons outside the control of HEP T, as explained below. It is rated as
unsatisfactory in view of the persistent increasing financial losses over the project
implementation period. Thus, the overall PDO is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

The details of the project's achievement are as follows:

(i) Improve the operating efficiency of HEP T.

Satisfactory: Operating efficiency of HEP T improved from the beginning of the project as
shown in the Table below, including reduced heat and water losses greater than estimated at
appraisal. The number of staff has been reduced by about 15 percent, mainly because of
retirement. The volume of annual maintenance needs of the DH network is now smaller than in
the beginning of the project, because the most problematic pipelines have been replaced. HEP T



                                                 9
also closed down two non-economical local boiler plants in Osijek by connecting their customers
to the main DH system.


       Zagreb

                                     Baseline   End of the Project            Notes
            Project Outcome
               Indicators             2005      Target     Actual
       Energy loss (% of heat                                        End-project target
                                     12.20%      10.2       9.45
       generated)                                                    exceeded
       Ratio of water added to the     26.5      23         22.6
                                                                     End-project target
       network volume
                                                                     exceeded
       Intermediate Outcome
       Indicators
       DH channel replaced, km         0          22        20.4      94% of target achieved
       Total number of domestic      96,000     98,000     99,646    About 1,600 customers
       connections                                                   more than planned



       Osijek
                                     Baseline   End of the Project            Notes
            Project Outcome
                Indicators            -2005     Target     Actual             Notes
       Energy loss (% of heat         11.0%     10.4%       6.8      End-project target
       generated) (*                                                 exceeded
       Ratio of water added to the     11.5       9         5.9      End-project target
       network volume                                                exceeded
       Intermediate Outcome
       Indicators
       DH channel
                                        0        15         9.7       65% of target achieved
       constructed/replaced, km
       Total number of domestic      10,000     10,500     10,384    About 110 customers
       connections                                                   less than planned


(ii) Improve the profitability of HEP T

Unsatisfactory: Improvement in HEP T's profitability was to be monitored through the
following financial performance indicators for the Zagreb and Osijek divisions: (a) project
outcome indicator ­ net profit/revenues (%) and (b) intermediate outcome indicators - the ratios
of (i) receivables/sales, (ii) payables/cash operating expenses, and (iii) operating
expenses/operating revenues (operating ratio). This objective was not met for reasons that were
largely out of the control of HEP T. To provide DH services to its customers, HEP T purchased
heat and steam from HEP. Heat and steam purchase costs were the largest component (on
average about 75%) of HEP T's annual operating expenses. Over the period 2005 to 2008,
driven by rising international prices of energy, the per unit purchase cost of HEP T's heat and


                                                      10
steam purchases from HEP increased by a cumulative 43%, with particularly sharp increases
since 2008. Meanwhile, HEP T's sales tariffs, which were subject to Government approval,
remained unchanged until early 2009. Gradual annual increases in tariffs would have obviated
the need for a sudden sharp increase to offset the cumulative cost increases. In 2009, the
Government did permit an increase of around 16% in the average tariff but this was insufficient
to compensate for the cumulative rise in expenses. The result of the persistent less than cost-
recovery tariffs was that HEP T's annual losses increased from HRK 63 million in 2005 to HRK
194 million in 2008 before declining to HRK 113 million in 2009. These losses also resulted in
annual cash operating deficits for HEP T which led to its accumulating sizeable arrears to HEP;
at the end of 2009, these totaled about HRK 600 million. HEP T's tariff proposal for 2010,
which has been approved by HERA, is under consideration by the Government. If the average
sales tariff is not increased, HEP T is projecting a loss of about HRK 166 million in 2010.
Further details are given in Annex 3.

               TABLE 1: Financial Performance Indicators for HEP T
               Indicator                           Baseline End of project target   Actual 2009
               ZAGREB
               Project outcome indicator
                       Net profit/revenues (%)           -11.3%      0.5%             -17.8%
                 Intermediate outcome indicators
                  Receivables/sales revenues (days)       102         78               138
               Payables/cash operating expenses (days)    259        122               234
                           Operating ratio                1.11       0.98              1.18
                              OSIJEK
                       Net profit/revenues (%)           -11.3%      0.5%             -24.9%
                 Intermediate outcome indicators
                  Receivables/sales revenues (days)       102         78               115
               Payables/cash operating expenses (days)    259        122               241
                           Operating ratio                1.11       0.98              1.20
                         HEP T OVERALL
                      Net profit (HRK million)             -63         4               -113
                      Revenues (HRK million)               491        796               556
                       Net profit/revenues (%)           -12.8%      0.5%             -20.3%




(iii) Increase customer satisfaction

Satisfactory: The customer survey of 2010 shows improved customer satisfaction in most areas
of activities in comparison to the survey results from 2007 and increases in connections (For
details see Section 3.6 and Annex 5).

3.3.   Efficiency

At appraisal, both economic and financial rates of return were estimated. Utilizing the same
methodology, they were re-estimated at project completion. The results are summarized in the
Table below and details are provided in Annex 3.


                                                    11
               Indicator        Zagreb               Osijek          Whole Project
                           Appraisal Current   Appraisal Current   Appraisal Current
               ERR          18.4%     23.8%     12.0%      26.5%    17.0%     24.4%
               FRR          15.5%     27.3%      5.9%      20.2%    13.8%     25.6%

The economic rate of return (ERR) in both cities after the project is higher than at appraisal
mainly due to the larger than anticipated energy savings resulting from improvements of the
network with reduction of heat and water losses. Also the actual economic energy prices were
somewhat higher during project implementation (especially after 2008) than estimated at
appraisal. The financial rates of return (FRR) in both cases and for the project as a whole are also
higher than appraisal estimates because HEP T's actual heat purchase prices from HEP were
much higher than projected at appraisal, resulting in much higher cost savings due to the
efficiency improvements under the project. Both key efficiency indicators (ERR and FRR) are
therefore re-estimated to significantly exceed the estimates at appraisal.

3.4.      Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

Based on the discussion in Sections 3.2 and 3.3, the overall outcome is rated as Moderately
Unsatisfactory for the following reasons. The project itself was (a) relevant; (b) implemented
well and completed on time; and (c) well justified since the efficiency indicators (economic and
financial rates of return) were satisfactory. Of the three indicators relating to the project
development objective, two (operating efficiency and customer satisfaction) are rated
satisfactory while the remaining one (improving HEP T's profitability) is rated unsatisfactory.
The MU rating for the overall outcome is on account of the persistent decline in HEP T's
financial situation resulting from the inadequacy of tariffs approved by the Government in an
environment of rising energy costs and the weight given to the need to improve HEP T's
financial situation.

3.5.      Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

N/A

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact as demonstrated by the
following:

          DSM. See Section 2.2

          Tariff methodology. The project supported the development of tariff methodology, which
          is used in the calculation of DH tariff levels, which was approved in 2006 and used for



                                                 12
        tariff calculation by HEP T and HERA. However, the Government did not approve the
        tariffs calculated by the methodology.

        Strengthening institutional capacity. HEP T's project implementation team has gained
        significant experience in the preparation and implementation of a DH project as well as in
        project management, procurement management, and safeguards issues. In the future, their
        services will be valuable during the implementation of DH projects in Croatia.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The commitment and ownership demonstrated by the city government of Osijek by issuing
permits without any delay is a positive outcome of the project. The fact that HEP T could
complete the installation of pipelines in spite of the loss of one year of implementation is a
confirmation of this ownership.

There was no unexpected negative impact of the project.

3.6.    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Two customer satisfaction surveys were conducted by HEP T in Zagreb and Osijek, first in 2007
from June 5th to July 20th, and the second in 2010 from April to May. In 2007, the survey was
conducted on 1010 respondents in Zagreb and 503 respondents in Osijek, while in 2010 these
numbers were 1004 and 507 respectively. The following are the key findings of the surveys. (For
details see Annex 5).

     The customer satisfaction surveys in 2007 and 2010 resulted in similar conclusions: (i) most
     of the customers are satisfied with the DH service both in Zagreb and Osijek. There is a
     slight improvement in general customer satisfaction in Zagreb; (ii) in the 2010 survey most
     of the respondents expressed their desire for DSM measures (thermostatic valves and cost
     allocators) and over 4/5 of respondents were interested in lowering their bills through
     temperature adjustment; (iii) those who had cost allocators were more satisfied in 2010 with
     the individual measurement and consumption based billing than in 2007.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The overall risk to the development outcome in terms of the continued efficient operations by
HEP T is deemed to be moderate for the following reasons. Although delays by the Government
in timely approval of adequate tariffs for HEP T continued to be a major risk throughout the
project implementation period, HEP T was able to provide its share of investment financing for
the project and to carry on its operations in a technically efficient manner albeit primarily by
building up payables to HEP. HEP T has experienced and motivated management and staff, and
the investments under the project have further increased the company's operating efficiency and
these gains are expected to be sustainable. For the future, given the political importance of
providing good quality district heating services in Zagreb (the capital city) and other project


                                               13
areas covered by HEP T, it seems likely that HEP T would be enabled to continue its technically
efficient operations. Recent actions taken by HERA and the Government, starting with the
significant (but not yet sufficient) tariff increase in 2009, indicate that the Government is
increasingly aware of the importance of adequate and timely tariff adjustments. In the event that
the Government does not provide timely and adequate adjustments in tariffs, sustainability of
efficient operations by HEP T would depend upon continued financial support from HEP
through further accumulation of payment arrears from HEP T. HEP T continues to be a
subsidiary of HEP and, thus far, HEP has shown a willingness to accommodate HEP T in this
respect. However, continuation of further build-up of arrears will affect HEP's financial situation
adversely, and it is important that the Government takes action to: (i) raise HEP T's tariffs to
enable it to meet its current obligations and (ii) assist HEP and HEP T in reaching an agreement
for a progressive settlement of HEP T's accumulated arrears.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1.   Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of
project design and all major relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and
institutional, including procurement and financial management. A number of alternatives were
considered for the project design. In addition, major risk factors and lessons learned in the DH
sector were considered and incorporated into the project design.

Project preparation was carried out with an adequate number of specialists who provided the
technical skills mix necessary to address sector concerns and a good project design. The Bank
provided adequate resources in terms of staff weeks and dollar amount to ensure quality
preparation and appraisal work. The project was consistent with the CPS and government
priorities in the energy sector at the time. The Bank had a consistently good working relationship
with the HEP T during preparation and appraisal.


(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. Sufficient
budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised, and closely
monitored. The task team prepared Aide-Memoires regularly and alerted the government and the
PIU to problems with project execution and facilitated remedies in a timely manner, in
conformity with Bank procedures. In regard to the PDO and the goal of improving HEP T's
profitability, the task team consistently drew the Government's attention to the need for timely
and adequate tariff increases for HEP T to offset the effects of the rising international costs of


                                                14
energy and fuel. Due consideration was given to whether the Bank should invoke available
remedies such as suspension of disbursements in view of the Government's failure to adequately
raise tariffs as provided in the Guarantee Agreement. However, in view of the fact that (i) the
physical investments under the project were proceeding well, (ii) lack of counterpart financing
on the part of HEP T was not a constraining issue in project financing, and (iii) suspension of
disbursements would adversely affect the implementation of the project, the task team took the
view, supported by both Country and Sector management, that suspension of disbursements was
not warranted under the circumstances.

On safeguard matters, the team regularly followed up on financial management issues, including
review of quarterly financial monitoring reports and annual audit reports. Audit reports were
used to determine the financial indicators of the project. Procurement supervision was regular
and there were no major issues on this matter. On environment safeguards, an Environmental
Management Plan was developed and followed by HEP T.

A Mid Term Review was held in March 2009 to ensure that project implementation was
progressing as planned. During the early supervision phase, a project launch workshop was held
(2006). The task team kept Bank management informed about the project and filed necessary
memos and documents, including six Implementation Status Reports (ISRs).

Close supervision was made possible by a highly decentralized Bank team, which was based in
Zagreb or in the Region in a nearby time zone, easing communication and reducing travel costs.
The Task Team Leader (TTL) was based in Zagreb for three years; the Operations
Officer,/Environmental Safeguards Specialist and the Procurement Specialist were based in
Zagreb; the Financial Management specialist was based in Sarajevo; and Washington-based
Bank staff provided specialized technical and financial analytic support.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the Bank performance during the lending and supervision phases as discussed above,
the overall Bank Performance is rated as Satisfactory.



5.2.   Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

As mentioned in Section 2.1, the Government had shown its commitment to the objective of the
project at the time of project preparation. Further, the project was ready to be implemented at
effectiveness, as: (i) the fiduciary arrangements were in place; (ii) project staff had been
identified in HEP and HEP T that would implement the project; (iii) HEP T had already started



                                              15
the procurement for the works contract that would be carried out in the first year of project
implementation; (iv) disclosure requirements for the project had been met; (v) results
assessment were completed; and (vi) an Environmental Management Plan and a Land
Acquisition Framework were in place. The Government officials from the MoELE and MOF
worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis, and cooperated fully with the
task team. During preparation, the Government performance was satisfactory.

Concerning DSM, the Government decided to proceed with voluntary implementation of DSM
measures in apartment buildings and approved in 2009 the revisions to the laws and regulations
defining the roles, responsibilities, and requirements for different parties in implementation of
DSM measures.

However, during implementation, the Government failed to raise HEP T's tariffs to cost recovery
levels which resulted in a progressively worsening financial situation for HEP T. HEP T's
financial situation at the end of the project was worse than at the start of the project. As a result
of this inaction on the part of the Government, the financial viability of HEP T as a self-
sustaining institution is at stake. For this reason, the Government's overall performance in
relation to the project is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

(b) Borrower and Implementing Agency Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

HEP, the Borrower, fulfilled its obligations in relation to the project in a satisfactory manner.
HEP T, the project implementing agency, carried out the project with professional competence.
HEP T's implementation team was well organized and motivated. Except for the delay in 2008 in
pipeline installation, there were no issues in project management, procurement, or financial
management. Implementation was satisfactory and timely because HEP and HEP T management
fully supported activities of the project. HEP T had dedicated officials to plan and execute the
investments, including preparing quality bidding documents, interacting with the Bank to quickly
address issues, making counterpart funds available, and reporting progress to the Bank on
meeting project objectives and Key Indicators. The PIU staff were adequate in number, well-
qualified, and quickly learned Bank procedures. The staff were in place for the project's duration,
making project implementation effective.


Financial Management
(i) Internal Controls: The PIU used the existing internal control measures in HEP T, including
regular reconciliation of project bank accounts, SOE vs. accounting data with every withdrawal
application, quarterly reconciliation of Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) vs. accounting records,
adequate segregation of duties, proper accounting policies and procedures. There was a monthly
reconciliation between HEP and HEP T accounting records and any discrepancies were followed
up in due time. The contracts were verified and signed by HEP T Managing Director. Every
invoice was checked and approved by the Managing Director and Chief Accountant and
afterwards sent for payment to HEP which verified once again the invoices for conformity.



                                                 16
(ii) Budgeting. The budgeting process was clearly defined. The budget of the project was
integrated into the company budget and followed the same approval and monitoring process.
(iii) Audits. Both HEP and HEP T were audited by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank.
The project's and HEP T entity's audited financial statements were submitted to the Bank within
the agreed timeframe. The auditor carried out the entity audit work in accordance with the audit
terms of reference and gave an unqualified audit opinion on the HEP T financial statements.

Procurement Arrangements. Procurement of all works, goods and technical services under the
project followed the Procurement Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits", dated May 2004.

Reporting Arrangements. The PIU submitted all required quarterly and semi-annual reports in a
timely manner. These reports were informative, and provided valuable feedback on how HEP T
was implementing all project activities. The status of performance indicators were incorporated
in all progress reports and served as valuable input to Bank supervision missions.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Based on the rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory for the Government's performance, and the
rating of Satisfactory for the performance of the Borrower (HEP) and the implementing agency
(HEP T), the rating for the overall performance of the Borrower (interpreted to mean the
Government, HEP and HEP T) is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

6.      Lessons Learned

Important factors for the success of a project:

        Commitment and ownership on the side of the Borrower and implementing agencies are
        important for the success of this project. This was demonstrated by the capability of the
        HEP T team, which implemented the project on time, even though one year of
        implementation (2008) was lost due to a change in the composition of its supervisory
        management board.
        It is important that the institutional and regulatory framework is in place when project
        implementation begins. This project benefitted because of the following: (i) a DH law
        had been approved; (ii) HEP T had its own financial statements; (iii) there was an
        agreement in place between HEP and HEP T in regard to service obligation and
        operation, and (iv) the Energy Regulator had been established.

Project Design:

        A key lesson for district heating projects in ECA is that politically difficult decisions on
        increasing heat tariffs should be an integral and complementary part of the economic
        dialogue underpinning DPLs (as is the case in Ukraine and Moldova).



                                                17
        A simple and focused project design helps in effective implementation and achieving the
        project objectives.

Implementation:

        It is important to have continuity in the implementing agency's management team. For
        example, HEP T's Supervisory Board was changed after the change of government in
        2008, and this change caused a one year delay in project implementation due to the new
        Board's unfamiliarity with the Bank's procurement procedures.

        In an environment of increasing international prices of energy and fuel, it is important to
        regularly adjust the sales tariffs for heat and steam supply to avoid a situation where the
        cumulative cost increases become so high that very large increases in tariffs are required
        to compensate them, and it becomes politically even more difficult for the Government to
        raise tariffs to cost-recovery levels.

Procurement:

        The size of procurement packages for works (in this case for pipe installation works)
        should be designed in such a way that several local companies have the financial
        capability and implementation capacity to execute them, thus allowing adequate
        competition.

DSM:

        There should be financial incentives for tenants to implement DSM measures in
        apartment buildings. As long as the heat tariff is low and there is no incentive for
        investment, apartment owners are not likely to be keen on accepting voluntary DMS.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

HEP T prepared a comprehensive Borrower's Completion Report and responded promptly to all
requests for additional information with the detailed information that the task team requested.

(b) Cofinanciers

NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

NA




                                                18
        ANNEX 1.   Project Costs and Financing
         (a) Project Cost by Component
                                  Appraisal        Appraisal
                                                                  Actual Estimate Percentage
          Components              Estimate       Estimate (Euro
                                                                   (Euro million) of Appraisal
                                 ($ millions)        million)
Infrastructure rehabilitation          40.61           32.75            31.55        96.34
Consultancy services                     3.60            2.90            1.33        45.86
Total Baseline Cost                    44.21           35.65            32.88        92.23
Physical Contingencies                   0.00            0.00            0.00        0.00
Price Contingencies                      0.00            0.00            0.00        0.00
Total Project Costs                    44.21           35.65            32.88
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.07            0.06            0.06         0.00
Total Financing Required               44.28           35.71            32.94        92.24


        (b) Financing
                                   Appraisal       Appraisal
                                                                  Actual Estimate Percentage
        Source of Funds             Estimate     Estimate (Euro
                                                                   (Euro million) of Appraisal
                                   ($ million)       million)
 Borrower (HEP T)                     14.52           11.71            8.94          76.35
 International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development       29.76           24.00            24.00          100.00
(IBRD)




                                                    19
ANNEX 2: Outputs   by Component


Network Rehabilitation:

The network rehabilitation component was a main project component in Zagreb and Osijek with
the following outputs:

(i)     Installation of pre-insulated pipes: a main project component aimed to replace worn out
        district heating pipes which had most of the leakages and breakdowns. HEP T did not
        manage to replace all pipes which were planned to be changed at appraisal because of the
        higher than estimated cost of pipes and pipe installation works. In total 20.4 km of
        pipelines were replaced in Zagreb and 7.2 km in Osijek and in addition 2.6 km of new
        pipelines were constructed in Osijek;
(ii)    In Osijek heating customers earlier heated by two local boiler plants were connected to
        the main district heating system where heat is supplied by a combined heat and power
        (CHP) plant. One of the boiler plants has been fully closed and the other one is now used
        for generation of domestic hot water. In Osijek also a new sport center was connected to
        the DH system under the project.
(iii)   Replacement of 17 old direct heat substations with modern indirect heat substations. In
        Osijek also some steam customers were connected to the DH system and steam supply
        was replaced by more efficient DH.
(iv)    Installation of DSM measures, heat cost allocators and thermostatic valves in 17
        buildings in Zagreb and Osijek and 19 buildings in two other towns where DH system is
        operated by HEP T to demonstrate the energy saving potential.

The project has resulted in remarkable benefits to HEP T and its customers including the
following:

(i)     The heat loss and water loss indicators demonstrate the selection of the pipe section for
        replacement has been correct resulting in larger than planned reduction of heat and water
        losses. The results of the project economic and financial indicators demonstrate much
        better results than estimated at appraisal;
(ii)    Also the number of breakdowns has been reduced both in Zagreb and Osijek from the
        level before the project. In 2006 the number of breakdowns in Zagreb was 168 and in
        Osijek 20 and after the project in 2009 the corresponding numbers are 114 in Zagreb and
        17 in Osijek;

Consultancy Services

The following consultancy services were financed by HEP T as planned.

(i)     Annually HEP T arranged a tender procedure to select a local design consultant to
        prepare technical specifications and bidding documents jointly with HEP T's own
        implementation unit. The quality of the design documents was good and the procedures
        were conducted in a timely manner;



                                               20
(ii)    HEP T also financed consultants to design and supervise pipe installation contracts
        jointly with HEP T's own staff;
(iii)   HEP T also financed from its own sources the preparation of annual audits of the
        financial statements of the project and HEP and HEP T.

The Ministry of Economy, Labor, and Entrepreneurship financed the preparation of the National
District Heating Strategy which was implemented in 2008 ­ 2009 in three phases. The last phase
of the strategy was not completed before the loan closing date because the government cut the
financing at the end of 2009.




                                             21
ANNEX 3. Economic   and Financial Analysis


At appraisal, both economic and financial rates of return were estimated. Using the same
methodology, they were re-estimated at project completion and are discussed below.

               Table 1: Economic and Financial Rates of Return
             Indicator        Zagreb               Osijek          Whole Project
                         Appraisal Current   Appraisal Current   Appraisal Current
             ERR          18.4%     23.8%     12.0%      26.5%    17.0%     24.4%
             FRR          15.5%     27.3%      5.9%      20.2%    13.8%     25.6%


Project Economic Analysis

The project includes rehabilitation of Zagreb and Osijek district heating systems. Cost-benefit
was analyzed for the whole investment program, taking into account the World Bank, HEP T
own funds. The economic rate of return is estimated to be 23.8% for Zagreb and 26.5% for
Osijek and 24.4% for the whole project.

Net benefits were calculated after the project using the same principles and data measurements as
the project appraisal report.

Savings in operational costs which comprise: savings due: (a) to reduction of water losses which
in both cities were higher than anticipated at appraisal; (b) savings in fuel consumption due to
reduction of heat losses, which also were higher than estimated at appraisal, and (c) reduction in
operations and maintenance (O&M) costs due to fewer breakdowns of pipes.

Project Financial Analysis

The project financial rates of return (FRR) are given in Table 1 above. The FRR have been re-
estimated at project completion using the same methodology as at appraisal. Instead of
economic prices, financial prices have been used including taxes and duties where applicable.
The main incremental benefits under the project are from fuel savings, water loss reductions, and
reductions in O & M costs due to equipment and facility upgrading. The financial rates of return
(FRR) in both cases and for the project as a whole are significantly higher than estimates at
appraisal because HEP T's actual heat purchase prices from HEP were much higher than
projected at appraisal, resulting in much higher cost savings due to the efficiency improvements
under the project.


Financial Viability of HEP (Borrower) and HEP T (Implementing Agency)

HEP

Selected financial indicators for HEP, showing a comparison of projections at appraisal versus
actual results, are shown in Table 2 below. HEP reported profitable operations throughout the


                                               22
project implementation period. HEP also met all agreed financial covenants and ratios.
However, most financial indicators were lower than projected, largely due to the fact that HEP's
electricity and other sales tariffs did not fully keep pace with the rise in its operating expenses
due to the rapid increases in international oil and gas prices.

                Table 2: HEP: Selected Financial Indicators (Appraisal versus Actual)
   Indicator       2005           2006             2007              2008             2009               2010
                   Base     App      Act     App      Act      App      Act     App      Act      App       Plan

(in         HRK
million)
Electricity         8156     8428    8506     8736     8977    9589     9961    10223    10854    10898     10607
revenues
Other revenues      1497     1737     1741    1867     1838     1945     1928    2022     1747    2092       1630
Total revenues      9653    10165    10247   10603    10815    11534    11889   12244    12601    12991     12237
Cash opex           7266    7719     8287    8066     9010     7967     9945    7919     10296    7914      10022
Total opex          9109     9728     9847   10143    10610    10119    11600   10142    11985    10208     11742
Operating margin    545      437      400     460      205     1415      289    2103      616     2782       495
Net profit after    441      136      242     152       26      725       31    1115      158     1499       172
tax

Ratios
Net profit/          4.6% 1.3% 2.4% 1.4% 0.2% 6.3% 0.3% 9.1% 1.3%                                 11.5%     1.4%
revenues (%)
Collection/billing 99.5     98.0      98.0      98.0      97.0     98.0    96.0    98.0    96.5   98.0      98.0
s (%)
Working        ratio 0.77   0.77      0.83      0.78      0.86     0.70    0.84    0.66    0.85   0.62      0.84
(%)
Operating ratio 0.96        0.98      0.96      0.98      0.98     0.90    0.98    0.85    0.95   0.80      0.96
(%)
Debt        service   2.5    2.4       1.5       2.5       1.4      3.3     1.7     3.8     1.3    4.2
coverage
Current ratio         0.9    1.0       0.9       1.1       0.9      1.4     0.9     1.7     0.9    2.2
Note: The 2010 Plan figures do not reflect tariff increase awaiting the Government's approval.

HEP T

Selected financial indicators for HEP T, showing a comparison of projections at appraisal with
actual results, are shown in Table 3 below. As seen from the Table, HEP T's financial situation,
measured by the operating margin and net profit/loss, deteriorated over the project
implementation period. HEP T's financial loss at the end of the project was substantially higher
than that at the start of the project. The main reason was that HEP T's heat and steam sales
tariffs, which are subject to review by HERA and approval by the Government, were not
increased sufficiently to keep pace with the steep increases in the costs of its heat and steam
purchases from HEP which increased due to the increases in international oil and gas prices. A
comparison of HEP T's average heat and steam sales tariffs and average heat and steam purchase
prices from HEP are given in Table 4 below. The figures show that, over the project
implementation period (2005 to 2010), average sales tariffs increased by about 24% whereas
average heat and steam purchase prices increased by 54% to 59%. HEP T's increasing financial
losses during the implementation period were correlated to this divergence between sales and



                                                       23
purchase prices. The graph following Table 4 below indicates the trends in these key parameters
and the correlated progressive increases in HEP T's annual losses since 2005.

               Table 3: HEP T: Selected Financial Indicators (Appraisal versus Actual)
      Indicator            2005       2006               2007              2008               2009             2010
                           Base    App Act            App   Act         App Act            App Act          App Plan
(in HRK million)
Heat & steam               468      585     462        655     454      696      480       735      556      766    561
revenues
Other revenues             59       60                 61               61                 62                63
Total operating            528      645       462      716     454      757      480       796      556      828    561
revenues
Heat & steam               340      429       314      480     355      511      432       539      401      562    453
expense
Other cash opex            168      146       175      147     167      151       193      156      203      161     219
Total cash opex            508      575       489      627     522      662       625      695      614      723     672
Total opex                 587      651       538      708     574      747       681      783      668      812     728
Operating margin           -60       -5       -76       7      -120     10       -201      13       -112     16     -167
Net profit/loss            -60       -9       -63       2      -102      3       -194       4       -113      5     -166

Ratios
Net profit/revenues        -11.3    -1.5    -13.6      0.2    -22.5      0.3     -40.4     0.5      -20.3    0.6    29.5
(%)
Heat, steam & fuel          74      67        68       67      78        68       90       68        72      68     81
expense/revenues (%)
Collections/billings        98      95                 95                96                96                97
(%)
Working ratio (%)          1.04     0.95              0.93              0.92               0.92             0.91
Operating ratio (%)        1.11     1.01      1.16    0.99     1.26     0.99     1.42      0.98     1.20    0.98    1.30
Current ratio               0.6      0.7               0.8               0.8                0.9              1.0
Receivables/sales          102       87                84                80                 78               72
(days)
Payables/cash opex         259      206                180              151                122               91
(days)

Note: The 2010 Plan figures do not reflect tariff increase awaiting the Government's approval.

Table 4: HEP T: Comparison of Sales Tariffs & Heat - Steam Purchase Prices
          Indicator                  Unit            2005    2006     2007     2008     2009      2010      Increase (%) 2010
                                                                                                                over 2005
                                                     Base

Weighted average heat              HRK/MWh           198     208      215      215       246      246              24%
sales tariff
Weighted average steam             HRK/MWh           144     145      155      155       175      175              22%
sales tariff

Average     heat      purchase     HRK/MWh           130     134      151      186       173      200              54%
price
Average    steam      purchase     HRK/MWh            97     98       118      129       133      154              59%
price

HEP T's annual net loss              HRK             -60     -63      -102     -194     -113      -154
                                    million


                                                               24
ANNEX 4. Bank   Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes



(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                             Title              Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Ljiljana Boranic             Team Assistant                   ECCHR
Ruxandra Maria Floroiu       Environmental Engineer           ECSS3
Stjepan Gabric               Senior Operations Officer        ECSS6
Irina L. Kichigina           Chief Counsel                    LEGEM
Mirela Mart                  Consultant                       ECSPS
Kishore Nadkarni             Consultant                       EASCS
Norval Stanley Peabody       Consultant                        EASIS
Pekka Kalevi Salminen        Sr Energy Spec.                  ECSS2
Sudipto Sarkar               Sector Leader                    EASIN
Yukari Tsuchiya              Temporary                        ECSSD
Antonia G. Viyachka          Procurement Specialist           ECSC2

Supervision/ICR
Ljiljana Boranic             Team Assistant                   ECCHR
Ruxandra Maria Floroiu       Environmental Engr.              ECSS3
Stjepan Gabric               Senior Operations Officer        ECSS6
Hana Huzjak                  Operations Analyst               ECSS6
Bogdanka Krtinic             Team Assistant                   ECCHR
Lamija Marijanovic           Financial Management Specialis   ECSC3
Mirela Mart                  Consultant                       ECSPS
Kishore Nadkarni             Consultant                       EASCS
Norval Stanley Peabody       Consultant                       EASIS
Poonam Rohatgi               Program Assistant                SASDO
Pekka Kalevi Salminen        Sr Energy Spec.                  ECSS2
Rozena Serrano               Program Assistant                ECSSD
Ljiljana Tarade              Operations Analyst               ECCHR
Natasa Vetma                 Operations Officer               ECSS3
Antonia G. Viyachka          Procurement Specialist           ECSC2




                                             25
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                 No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY05                                                                     23.10
FY06                                                                    184.29
Supervision/ICR
FY07                                                                     85.16
FY08                                                                     81.27
FY09                                                                     89.26
FY10                                                                     85.91
FY11                                                                     24.78
Total:                                                                  573.78

*Note: Staff weeks are no longer supported by Bank information.




                                          26
ANNEX 5. Beneficiary   Survey Results


Introduction

Two customer satisfactions surveys were conducted by HEP T in Zagreb and Osijek, first in
2007 from June 5th to July 20th, and the second in 2010 from April to May. The main goal of
these surveys was to estimate:

       Consumers' satisfaction with provision of heating and warm water service,
       implementation of strategies considering service issues.
       Base data of housing in which live consumers who use district heating system
       Base data of consumers structure who use district heating system
       Willingness of households to pay increased price with purpose to improve heating and
       hot water service quality
       Alternative options for heating of rooms and water
       Hot-Water Pipeline Reconstruction Using Preinsulated Pipes

Before the start of surveys, both in 2007 and 2010, a test pilot was conducted on 20 respondents
to examine the logic, comprehensibility of the survey's instruments and duration of interview
itself. In 2007, the survey was conducted on 1010 respondents in Zagreb and 503 respondents in
Osijek, while in 2010 these numbers were 1004 and 507 respectively.

Response on the project

2010 survey showed that:

       1/3 of respondents are familiar with project "Hot-Water Pipeline Reconstruction Using
       Preinsulated Pipes".
       Respondents who lived in Zagreb with shared measurement perceived this project better
       than respondents with individual measurement and especially more than respondents
       from Osijek.
       Respondents who are familiar with this project have a much better impression about it
       than those who have not heard about it. 44% of respondents stated that this project would
       ensure and provide better service (81% of respondents familiar with this project). Only
       7% of respondents thought that this project would not ensure better service and almost
       half did not know.
       21% of respondents are willing to pay more as support of this project in the future.
       Although respondents from Osijek have the worst impression about the project, they are
       the most willing to pay more as support of this project in future. Regardless of whether
       they are familiar with the project or not, about 40% is not willing to pay more.
       More respondents familiar with the project are willing to pay more, while respondents not
       familiar with the project do not know if they are ready to pay more or not, which means
       that they are not against investment.


                                              27
Base data of object

Both the 2007 and 2010 surveys showed that:

       The majority of respondents lived in apartments in large buildings with more than 40
       apartments, although in Osijek there are more buildings with more than 20 apartments.
       Dating of buildings is between 20-40 years. Respondents with individual measurement
       lived in buildings built 1-10 years ago.
       Respondents mostly live in apartments of 40-65 m2. Number of radiators in living space
       is closely linked to the number of square meters of apartment and number of rooms in it.
       Respondents with smaller apartments have fewer radiators.

Differences between the 2007 and 2010 surveys:

       2007 survey showed that respondents who have individual measurement did not have any
       additional works, while in the 2010 survey some of them mentioned some additional
       construction works. It appears that additional works start when building is 10 years old.
       In 2007, 84% of respondents thought that the quality of insulation was good or
       satisfactory, while 15% thought that insulation was bad. Respondents who used
       individual measurement, and those who lived in buildings of more recent date had the
       best quality of insulation. In 2010, 87% of respondents thought that the quality of
       insulation was good or satisfactory, while 13% thought that insulation was bad. The
       respondents who had shared measurement, and those who lived in older buildings had the
       worst quality of insulation.
       In 2007, respondents had the most money invested in thermal insulation of windows and
       doors in apartments (18%) and ¼ thought that such works needed to be performed. For
       other works in apartments (thermal insulation of walls and repair or replacement of
       radiators in apartments) more than 70% of respondents thought that there was no need for
       them. In 2010, respondents had the most money invested in thermal insulation of
       windows and doors in apartments (17%) and 23% thought that such works needed to be
       performed. For other works in apartments (thermal insulation of walls and repair or
       replacement of radiators in apartment) more than 70% of respondents thought that there
       was no need for them.
       Considering investments in buildings, in 2007 respondents had the most money invested
       in roof repair (28%) and some of them thought that such works needed to be done. For
       the rest of works, most of respondents thought that there was no need for them. In 2010,
       respondents had the most money invested in roof repair (16%), then in windows and
       front-door (11%) and thermal insulation of building (3%).

Base data of heating

Both the 2007 and 2010 surveys showed that:

       Respondents in Zagreb who had shared measurement were significantly less satisfied
       than respondents who used individual measurement and respondents in Osijek. Also,



                                              28
       respondents who had problems with insulation of doors, windows and walls in apartment
       sor in buildings, were more dissatisfied with heating service.
       Those respondents dissatisfied thought in larger number that temperature during the day
       and night was too low, heating turns on too late in the morning, installations and radiators
       were old/in bad condition, and in particular that they don't have control over bills and
       cannot adjust temperature.
       For most of the respondents temperature is never too low (especially among those with
       individual measurement), while those who said that temperature is too low, wear warmer
       clothes and cover themselves with blankets. Most of the respondents (above 90%) didn't
       put extra cells on radiators.
       Respondents who used shared measurement thought that they can adjust the temperature
       through radiator's valve and by turning on/off the radiator. Respondents who use
       individual measurement thought that temperature can be adjusted through thermostat, but
       16% of them thought that temperature can be adjusted by turning the radiator on/off. A
       larger number of respondents in 2010 perceived that they could regulate temperature
       through radiator's valve.
       About 90% of respondents said that they were never late in payment and almost all
       respondents would like to stay in the district heating system.

Differences between the 2007 and 2010 surveys:

       In 2007 the majority of respondents with individual measurement had mentioned 22°C as
       ideal/ average temperature; while in 2010 respondents were more divided among whole
       range of temperatures (it is possible that was influence of cold winter in 2010).
       Most of the respondents opened their windows when it was too warm in their home,
       adjusted temperature through radiator's valve (partially or completely turn off).
       Respondents who used individual measurement mostly adjusted temperature through
       thermostatic valve, and adjusted temperature by turning off radiator's valve. While in
       2007, 5% opened the windows, in 2010, this figure was 15%.
       In 2007, about 70% of respondents were not prepared to pay more for better heating
       service. 20% of respondents were prepared to pay 5% more (in Osijek 35%), or 9% of
       those who were prepared to pay 10% more for better heating service. In 2010, about 60%
       of respondents were not prepared to pay more for better heating service, 26% of
       respondents were prepared to pay 5% more (in Osijek 38%), or 10% of those who were
       prepared to pay 10% more for better heating service.

Individual measurement­ respondents who do not have individual measurement

Both the 2007 and 2010 surveys showed that:

       Most of the respondents expressed a desire for thermostatic valves. Respondents who
       showed less desire for thermostatic valves were those with lower education and
       respondents who lived with apartment sharers. While most of the respondents thought
       that individual measurement would lower their bills, respondents who were not interested
       in it thought that individual measurement would not produce any change.



                                               29
       Over 4/5 of respondents were interested in lowering their bills through temperature
       adjustment. Respondents wanted measurements to be taken manually and not through
       radio-system. Among employed respondents and those with higher education, a higher
       percentage of them would like for measurement to be taken through radio-system, while
       older respondents, over 65 prefer manual measurement.
       Lower consumption and savings are the most significant advantages of individual
       measurement, then the option of adjusting temperature.
       Most respondents mentioned price as the biggest limitation to possible installation of
       individual measurement.
       4/5 of respondents were prepared to pay up to 1.000 kn for putting in of individual
       measurement. 1/4 of respondents were prepared to pay 2.000 kn. Respondents would like
       to pay in monthly installments if offered, and would prefer to pay in one half to 1 year
       (respondents who participated in the 2007 survey were more interested in paying over 1-2
       years). 12% can't pay even if a 3 year loan is offered.

Individual measurement ­ respondents who have individual measurement.

Both the 2007 and 2010 surveys showed that:

       Almost half of the respondents who have been using individual measurement thought that
       their bills are lower.
       Over 60% of respondents at least once a week adjust the temperature (or more often).
       Lower consumption and savings are the most important advantages of individual
       measurement, and the option of temperature adjusting. Respondents dissatisfied with
       individual measurement of heating said in higher percentage that this way of heating
       doesn't have advantages.

Differences between the 2007 and 2010 surveys:

       In 2007, 60% of respondents were satisfied with individual measurement of heating,
       while in 2010, this figure was 71%.
       In 2007, the most important limitation was no-change in bills (no evident savings) and
       inexplicable bills. This is particularly evident among respondents who were dissatisfied
       with individual measurement. In 2010 the most important limitation is inexplicable bills
       (particularly evident among respondents who are dissatisfied with individual
       measurement) and malfunctions and problems with maintenance.
       In 2007, 86% of respondents recommended individual measurement of heating, while in
       2010 this figure was 94%. Even respondents who were not satisfied with individual
       measurement recommended it.

Both the 2007 and 2010 surveys showed that:

       Over 90% didn't have problems with dripping taps.
       Respondents concluded that temperature of water is optimal, interruptions are rare, short
       and announced, water pressure is strong enough.



                                              30
Differences between the 2007 and 2010 surveys:

       In 2007 and 2010, 95% of respondents from Zagreb said that the district heating system
       provided them with hot water. While in 2007, 80% of respondents were satisfied with this
       service, in 2010, this figure had increased to 87%.
       In 2007, 97% of respondents and in 2010, 98% didn't want to leave warm water
       supplying system.
       In 2007, over 80% of respondents were not prepared to pay more. 13% was prepared to
       pay 5% more. Respondents were prepared to pay more for better service as problems and
       dissatisfaction with the service grow. 21% of averagely dissatisfied were prepared to pay
       5% more and almost 31% of dissatisfied. In 2010, over 70% of respondents were not
       willing to pay more.17% was prepared to pay 5% more.

Conclusion and recommendations

Both the 2007 and 2010 surveys showed that:

       Respondents were satisfied with heating service, and those dissatisfied with heating
       service had great problem with insulation of doors, windows, walls and in larger number
       had lower average temperature in apartment ­ even less than 20°C.
       Respondents showed interest for individual measurement and thought that consumption
       and energy savings would be significant. Most of them thought that individual
       measurement doesn't have limitations but they needed to be educated to avoid unrealistic
       expectations ­ especially if insulation problems are present.
       Respondents who had individual measurement were dissatisfied that they didn't have
       control over bills as much as they should have and with its inexplicability (don't know
       what they pay).
       Respondents were satisfied with hot water supply service, and those dissatisfied
       complained about impurities in water and that after they open the taps, hot water doesn't
       start to flow immediately.

Difference between the 2007 and 2010 surveys:

       Although most of the respondents are not prepared to pay more for better service, in 2007,
       about 20%, and in 2010 about 25% of respondents were prepared to pay 5% more. (In
       Osijek this percentage was even higher ­ 35% and 38% respectively).

In 2010:

       21% of respondents are prepared to pay more to support this project in the future (more
       from Osijek).
       Two recommendations were: (i) To make flyers about this project and distribute them
       with bills to increase awareness of the project (and with that all other positive things
       related with project). (ii) To offer to potential users of individual measurement some kind
       of loan for putting in use (by HEP or in agreement for bank loan with lower interest).



                                               31
      ANNEX 6. Stakeholder   Workshop Report and Results


N/A




                                32
ANNEX 7.   Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
District Heating Project
World Bank's Loan No. 4828 ­ HR
Zagreb, August 2010

   1. General Provisions

Borrower: HEP d.d.
Responsible (implementing) Agency: HEP ­ Toplinarstvo d.o.o (further in text HEP T)
Effectiveness Date: March 9, 2007
Closing Date: June 30, 2010
Estimated Project Cost: 35.71 millions 
Total Project Cost: 32.94 millions 

District heating companies in Croatia supply about 400.000 people with heating energy. Heating
energy is mostly produced in cogeneration thermal power plants for bigger areas or in local
boiler plants for suburban areas and distributed to the customers through hot water pipelines
whose total length is about 430 km DH companies are mostly state or municipal owned except in
Rijeka where there is a combination of both municipal and private ownership.

HEP ­ Toplinarstvo d.o.o. is one of the subsidiaries of HEP d.d. and it supplies about 116.000
households and 6.000 companies in Zagreb, Osijek and Sisak. The DH Project was planned to be
implemented only in the first two mentioned cities.
In Zagreb the length of the hot-water pipeline network is 216 km and it supplies 99.646
consumers. Osijek has a hot-water pipeline network of 46 km which supplies 11.693 consumers.

   2. The necessity of Project implementation

The Governments intention was to strengthen district heating sector and to promote further
development of district heating as one of the most efficient energy forms, especially when it is
produced in cogeneration plants. At the time of Project preparation (year 2005) The Act on the
Production, Distribution and Supply of Thermal Energy has been set which was one of the
prerequisites for DH sector rehabilitation. Also the HERA (Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency)
was formed as an independent entity whose main goal is the regulation of the entire energy
sector.

The overall objective of the project was to promote the efficient operations of all DH companies.
HEP T was chosen as an implementing entity because its share in this sector is very significant
(75% in Zagreb and 7% in Osijek of all connected customers are using HEP T services) and the
results of the Project are planned to be benchmarked for other DH companies and also
implemented.

Hot water pipelines in Zagreb and Osijek are over 50 years old while the estimated time needed
for their replacement was 30 years. Over the last 15 years due to the regulated price of thermal


                                               33
energy on the very low level, lower then input costs, the DH companies' network was not
maintained and replaced in a timely manner. This resulted with significant heat and water losses
and breakdowns which were much higher comparing to the average in EU countries.
As earlier mentioned, one of the problems of non profitable operations of DH companies was the
fact that the tariffs have not covered cash operating expenses. It is important to note that about
72% of all operating expenses are for fuel which means that the reason of non profitability is of
external nature. This percentage of the fuel costs has a growth trend because of the rising fuel
prices on the market. The cost recovery tariff is placed as an importance of high priority. The
Government's task is to find a way to ensure a benefit program for the most vulnerable
categories with low or no incomes.

The great disadvantage of DH sector was not offering the possibility to the customers to control
the consumption off energy which often results with great energy waste. All new buildings must
have individual measuring from the year 2000, but from 2008, with the publication of the new
Regulations, all existing consumers can install Heat cost allocators and Thermostatic Valves with
the consent of the distributor, but at their own expense. At the time of preparing the project
existing customers could choose DSM if they wanted to, but it is to be considered to put it
mandatory for existing customers also.

The World Bank's involvement in this Project is ensuring the special loan under favorably
conditions and helping Croatia in defining the DH strategy that will help it in the EU accession.

    3. Project by components

                          Table 1. Project Cost and financing plan (millions )
                                                     Target                   Actual
Component                                            Cost     Financing       Cost   Financing
                                                     Total    Bank HEP T      Total Bank HEP T
A. Infrastructure rehabilitation
Zagreb DH Rehabilitation
Preinsulated equipment, valves, installation works   18,47    18,47   0,00    19,70   18,47   1,23
Preinsulated pipes and insulation of steel pipes     6,84     0,00    6,84    5,08    0,00    5,08
Subtotal for Zagreb                                  25,31    18,47   6,84    24,78   18,47   6,31
Osijek DH Rehabilitation
Preinsulated equipment, valves, installation works   5,47     5,47    0,00    5,53    5,47    0,06
Preinsulated pipes                                   1,97     0,00    1,97    1,24    0,00    1,24
Subtotal for Osijek                                  7,44     5,47    1,97    6,77    5,47    1,30
Total for component A                                32,75    23,94   8,81    31,55   23,94   7,61
B. Consultancy services
DSM program                                          0,40     0,00    0,40    0,00    0,00    0,00
Design and supervision consultancy                   1,70     0,00    1,70    1,33    0,00    1,33
Financial audits                                     0,80     0,00    0,80
Total for component B                                2,90     0,00    2,90    1,33    0,00    1,33
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                   35,65    23,94   11,71   32,88   23,94   8,94
Front end fee                                        0,06     0,06    0,00    0,06    0,06    0,00
TOTAL                                                35,71    24,00   11,71   32,94   24,00   8,94




                                                        34
Component A: Infrastructure rehabilitation

By the end of the Project, there were 20,40 km replaced in Zagreb out of planned 22 km and in
Osijek 9,8 km out of planned 14,7 km. In Osijek 1,8 km of new hot water pipelines has been
built during the activities on the switching the consumers from local boiler plants to CHS and 0,8
km of new hot water pipelines while connecting the sports centre Gradski vrt to CHS. The main
reason why the replacement was not 100% accomplished was the increase of prices of works
from the year 2008 comparing to the baseline 2005. Because of not enough assets, in Osijek a
part of consumers which should be switched to hot water pipelines network remain on the steam
pipeline network and part of them financed the connection to the CHS by themselves.

Closing date of the project was June, 30th 2010. By that date in year 2010, in Zagreb were
replaced about 4,46 km out of planned 5,4 km of hot water pipelines and all 1,9 km in Osijek as
it was planned. This was financed by the Bank. The rest of 0,94 km in Zagreb was finished at the
beginning of August and that was financed by HEP T's funds. Beside the DH project, in 2010,
there were replaced about 400 m in Zagreb and 400 m in Osijek of hot-water pipelines financed
by HEP T's own funds.

Component B: Consultancy services

During the DH Project in Zagreb and Osijek, HEP T used some consultancy services. Regarding
the nature of works, it was necessary to have the implementation documentation for every year
of the works, so one of the services was designing of implementation documentation for
reconstruction works.
Given that it was a big scope of work each year, it was also necessary to have the service of
supervising works and the quality of installed equipment. The supervision of works was divided
on supervision of mechanical and the supervision of construction works.
One of HEP T's obligations was to provide a Public Awareness/PR campaign. The campaign
was conducted at the beginning of works, and the other campaign in this last year of the Project.
The aim of the campaign was to better understand the need of the consumers find out the level of
customer's satisfaction with DH services before and after the Project.
Results of the Public Awareness/PR campaign showed that consumers are satisfied with the
service of HEP T.




                                               35
   4. The Project's objectives and results chain

In order to understand and analyze easier the assessment of the main Project's objectives, in table
below, beside objectives, inputs used in the Project, implementing activities, outputs and
outcomes are also shown.

Table 2. Results and monitoring framework
                                     reducing energy and water losses
Objectives                           increasing the profitability of HEP T
                                     increasing the level of customer satisfaction
                                     funds
Inputs
                                     human resources
                                     procurement activities in Zagreb and Osijek
                                     rehabilitation of existing hot water pipelines in
                                      Zagreb and Osijek
                                     building the new hot water pipeline for the sports
                                      centre Gradski vrt in Osijek
                                     connecting the consumers from local boiler plants to
                                      central heating system (further in text CHS) in Osijek
Activities
                                     replacement of direct into indirect substations in
                                      Osijek
                                     switching steam customers to CHS in Osijek
                                     installation of heat cost allocators (HCA) and heat
                                      regulation valves in Zagreb and Osijek
                                     providing two surveys of customer satisfaction in
                                      Zagreb and Osijek
                                     20,4 km of rehabilitated hot water pipelines in Zagreb
                                     HCA's installed in 13 buildings in Zagreb, 8
                                      buildings in Sisak, 11 buildings in V.Gorica, and 4
                                      buildings in Osijek
                                     7,2 km of rehabilitated hot water pipelines in Osijek
Outputs
                                     2,6 km of new built hot water pipelines in Osijek
                                     one local boiler plant in Osijek is closed and the other
                                      is in use only for the preparation of the domestic
                                      water, not for heating
                                     17 new indirect substations in Osijek
                                     energy losses decrease
                                     water savings increase
Outcomes                             increase of customer satisfaction
                                     increase of number of domestic connections
                                     decrease of operating ratio




                                                36
         4.1   Assessment of the Project's objectives

The main Project's Development Objectives out came as it follows:

a) Reducing energy and water losses

The plan was reducing the energy losses for 10% in Osijek and 15% in Zagreb out of total
energy generated through the rehabilitation of the network and the closure of non economic local
boilers in Osijek. Water losses and energy consumption was monitored on annual basis. The data
were collected from HEP T sales reports and HEP Proizvodnja d.o.o. production reports. Losses
decreased even more then it was planned, in Zagreb losses are decreased for 23% and in Osijek
for 38%. This results show that investments in other Croatian DH companies would be rationale
and justified, could give similar results and could affect energy savings on the national but also
international level.

The other intermediate outcome indicator was a decrease of water added to the system. The plan
was a decrease of added water for at least 12% in Zagreb and 20% in Osijek. Target values are
achieved even in greater values then it was planned. Ratio of water added to water volume in
Zagreb decreased from 26,5 in 2005 to 22,63 in 2009 and in Osijek from 11,5 in 2005 to 5,91 in
2009.

It is important to note that the number of breakdowns of the system has generally decreased in
both cities so the Project gave a significant contribution to the safety of heating supply also.
The decrease of the number of interventions caused by ruptures and leaking in Zagreb and Osijek
are shown in the tables below.


Zagreb

      Year          2000    2001    2002    2003       2004    2005    2006   2007   2008   2009
      No. of
                     43      58      72      96        137     140     168    126    96     114
  interventions


Osijek

     Year          2003    2004    2005    2006    2007       2008    2009
     No. of
                    18      21      21     20          23     17      17
 interventions




                                                  37
b) Increasing the profitability of HEP T

At the beginning of the year 2009 the Government has approved the increase of tariffs for 16%,
in average, which was not in accordance with HEP ­ T's request made on the basis of operating
expenses. This was first approval from the year 2002. In that period there were fluctuations of
fuel and parallel with prices of all other inputs. After mentioned approval of tariffs increase, the
growth of HEP T's negative business result was slowed down but set objectives considering the
profitability are not achieved. It is very important to highlight that despite all savings made,
increasing the profitability of HEP T and creating business conditions for HEP T and other
district heating companies to operate on "positive zero" will not be possible without accurate and
objective application of existing Tariff System for Production, Distribution and Supply of
Heating Energy.

After the approval in 2009, only one more requests for the increase of tariffs was made, but we
didn't get any answer.

c) Increasing the level of customer satisfaction

HEP T has conducted two surveys in order to better understand its' consumers needs and the
level of their satisfaction. The results showed that HEP T's consumers are mostly very pleased
with the service they get.
HEP T has also implemented a voluntary DSM Program in Zagreb and Osijek. During the
Project implementation period, HCA were installed in 13 buildings in Zagreb and in 4 buildings
in Osijek. The results of mentioned pilot program were energy savings of around 10-20% per
building. In the year 2008 the Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship has set the
Rules of allocating the heating costs in old buildings where there is one common heat meter for
the whole building (built before the implementing the DSM has become obliged). The
consumers showed not much interest for introducing DSM because mentioned Rules make a
consumer as an investor if decide to implement DSM. This is the reason why consumers did not
accept DSM program in greater volume.

4.2 Inputs

The main inputs used in Project were funds and human resources, both HEP T's and World
Banks. As agreed in the beginning, the Project was financed partly from the World Bank's loan
and partly from HEP T's own funds. Funds flow was done from the Designated Account opened
by HEP (for funds withdrawal) and two project accounts, one in HRK and one in EUR, for HEP
T, all in Zagrebacka banka d.d.. HEP T as project implementation unit has applied acceptable
accounting method to ensure controlling the uses of funds by sources.

Human resources were other but not less important input in the Project. HEP's President of the
Board set a team made of members of technical, economical and legal profession who was
together with the team leader responsible for the implementation and also motoring and reporting.
The World Bank has also set a team who was responsible for the Project implementation.




                                                38
4.3 Project implementation

As it was agreed in the Loan Agreement HEP T prepared twice a year revised and updated
progress report which important part was procurement plan. Procurement was implemented in
accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines. During the period from 2006 ­ 2010 HEP T has
concluded 12 contracts for supply of goods in amount of 4,2 mln  and 17 contracts for
installation works in amount of 19,74 mln . This allocation of loan funds was approved by the
World Bank in December 2009.

During the period of Project implementation everything went as it was planned. The only
problem appeared in 2008 when offered prices in NCB procurement of works exceeded
estimated price for 50%. HEP T had to cancel the procurement and there was not enough time to
carry out one more bidding procedure neither to finish the works on time because of the
specificity of district heating (the implementation of works has to be between two heating
seasons). This situation resulted with re bidding next year where Zagreb and Osijek started to
carry out joint bidding divided into separate lots.

At the end of 2008 and the beginning of 2009, HEP T has ordered the new feasibility study with
new, higher prices. The study showed that with even higher prices the project would be cost
effective.

4.4   Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives

The assessment of the outcome of the operation is seen from monitoring and evaluating data
which were collected through adequate and objective reports such as technical reports about the
quantity of produced and sold heating energy, financial reports such as book keeping reports,
cash flow reports etc and project documents. All mentioned data were available at any time and
are continuously delivered to the World Bank on review in different forms such as progress
report, financial statements, presentations etc.




                                              39
 The tables below show the latest available results.

                  Zagreb:

                           Base                                                      Target Values
  Project Outcome
                           line              2006                         2007                             2008                         2009
     indicators
                          (2005)
                                    PLAN           ACTUAL       PLAN           ACTUAL             PLAN        ACTUAL         PLAN          ACTUAL
Energy loss (% of         12.20
heat generated)            %       11.20%           10.01%     10.70%              12.0%         10.30%       11.55%         10.20%            9,45%

Ratio of water added
to the network volume      26.5      26.0           23.99          25.0             21.6           24.0           21.24         23.0           22,63
Net profit/revenues
(%)                       -11.3      -1.5            -12,1          0.2             -22             0.3            -41            0.5          -17,8
Customer satisfaction       *        tbd              -             n/a             84%             n/a             -           90%             85%
                           Base                                                      Target Values
   Intermediate
                           line             2006                      2007                          2008                            2009
Outcome Indicators
                          (2005)
                                   PLAN       ACTUAL         PLAN         ACTUAL           PLAN           ACTUAL          PLAN             ACTUAL
Percentage of
rehabilitation
completed                   0%      25%            6.8%       50%         31.8%             75%            32%            100%                 90%
Ratio of receivables to
sales (days)               102      87             146        84             156            80              137            78                  138
Ratio of payables to
cash operating
expense (days)             259      206            258        180            250            151             259            122                 234
Operating ratio            1.11     1.01           1,16       0.99           1,28           0.99            1,43           0.98                1,18

Total number of
domestic connections      96,000   96,500      97,878        97,000       98,435           97,500         99,261          98,000           99,646




                                                              40
                    Osijek:

                           Base                                                     Target Values
  Project Outcome
                           line             2006                       2007                              2008                           2009
     indicators
                          (2005)
                                    PLAN       ACTUAL        PLAN             ACTUAL             PLAN        ACTUAL          PLAN            ACTUAL
Energy loss (% of
                *
heat generated)            11%       11%           6,80%     10.50%             6,70%         10.30%             6,18%          10%            6,8%

Ratio of water added
to the network volume      11.5      11,4          12,40         10                 8,50           9,5            6,40            9             5,91
Net profit/revenues
(%)                       -11,3      -1,5           -5,6         0,2                -16            0,3            -28,1           0,5          -24,9
Customer satisfaction                tbd             -           n/a                90%            n/a              -           90%             89%
                           Base                                                     Target Values
   Intermediate
                           line             2006                      2007                          2008                              2009
Outcome Indicators
                          (2005)
                                   PLAN       ACTUAL       PLAN         ACTUAL             PLAN          ACTUAL           PLAN               ACTUAL
Percentage of
rehabilitation
completed                  0%       0%             0%       33%              17%            66%            23%            100%                 65%
Ratio of receivables to
sales (days)               102      87             99       84               105            80             109             78                  115
Ratio of payables to
cash operating
expense (days)             259      206            220      180              289            151            256             122                 241
Operating ratio            1.11     1.01           1,00     0.99             1,19           0.99           1,31            0.98                1,20

Total number of
domestic connections      10,100   10,200      10.200      10,300        10.300            10,400        10,365           10,500             10.384




As shown in the tables above, the results of the indicators are achieved even better than they
were planned, except the financial indicators because of reasons which were outside the control
of HEP T. From this can be concluded that the heating system improved its operational
efficiency and reliability, energy savings are ensured and heat losses are reduced.
Besides all above mentioned, HEP T's team gained a large experience in implementing projects
of that extend of procurement and works.

4.5       Transition Arrangements

HEP T has been revitalizing the district heating network by reconstruction of hot ­ water
pipelines with the technology of preinsulated pipes for the last 5 years, but still there is 70% in
Zagreb and 80% in Osijek of the network that was built in the classical way of laying pipes
(pipes isolated with mineral wool and aluminum lining laid in a concrete channel) that is old and
worn out. Bad condition of pipes frequently leads to ruptures which lead to losses and an
increase of maintenance cost.

During this period of revitalization from the WB Loan the Government approved an increase of
heating prices, but still HEP T is not making enough profit to be able to invest into further
revitalization. Therefore it would be necessary for HEP T to get the approval for another loan to
continue with the reconstruction of hot-water pipelines network.
Except the district heating network reconstructions, it is planned to reconstruct 440 heating
stations of the direct type to indirect type in Zagreb. In Osijek, beside the further revitalizations
of the old hot water pipelines network it is also necessary to revitalize 472 heating stations of the


                                                              41
direct type to indirect type. Because of the great losses on the old steam network it is necessary
to switch the rest of steam consumers to the hot water pipelines system.

This would lead to creating a precondition of a favorable hydraulic regime of the hot-water
pipeline network and an increase of reliability in exploitation of the system.

HEP T is not only working on revitalizing the old network, but is also looking to expand its
activities on parts of Zagreb where there is no hot-water network yet. One of these projects is the
Eastern part of the city, Dubrava and Ferenscica in Zagreb and building of new hot water
pipelines for the new urban area JUG IV and closing the last boiler plant in Osijek used for
production of heating energy. In these parts HEP T is providing heating energy through boiler
stations that use natural gas, extra light fuel oil and light fuel oil as fuel. The price of heating
energy for those consumers is the same as for the part of town in which there is the hot-water
pipeline although the expenses of some boiler stations are higher than the profit that HEP T
makes form selling the heat. This has a negative impact on the HEP T management. By
spreading the district heating network, financial efficiency of HEP T would increase.

5      Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance

HEP T rates its own performance as high especially when it comes to implementation of all
planned activities on time and without any bigger problems. The experience from this project
and the results from the project show that similar projects should be prepared and done for other
Croatian DH companies but also for HEP T again.

It is important to put accent on the fact that the recovery of tariffs was taken into account when
setting improvement of profitability as one of the objectives, but approval of tariffs is under the
responsibility of HERA, which issues its opinion, and government then makes its decision based
on the recommendation of MoELE, so that HEP T's team could not have direct influence on it.

HEP T is very satisfied with cooperation with municipalities which was also very important for
the project's success.

All works were done under continuous supervision which ensured high quality of works'
performance. Also, works were carried out on public surfaces, traffic roads and green surfaces,
so well coordinated cooperation with administrative city units was inevitable. Joint works with
all the authorities ensured that the project was implemented in a good manner.




                                                42
5.1. Evaluation of Bank's Performance

World Bank had an active and relevant role in all stages of the Project. The Bank was very
helpful, all the stuff are rather qualified, experienced and skilled to help the Borrower to provide
set objectives. All the questions were clarified and HEP T is very pleased with communication
and cooperation with World Bank's Energy Team. World Bank's guidelines were very detailed
and clear. The Bank conducted regular meetings with HEP T's, HEP's management and
Government on the regular basis and this is rated as high satisfactorily in helping successful
project results and solving eventual problems.

One of HEP T's suggestions is that in future projects maybe it could be considered to have the
possibility to prolong the closing date for one extra year as backup if from any reasons the
project implementation in one year has to be postponed. Another suggestion for the future
projects is to plan the beginning and the closing date in accordance to specific character of
district heating sector (revitalization is possible only in the period between two heating seasons).

6      Lessons learned

Through this project, the HEP T's team in cooperation with the World Bank gained a lot of
experience in preparing and implementation of a project with significant scope of works. The
project was successful and one of the important factors for the success was that during the whole
project there was only one World Bank's task manager who was versed in the business from the
beginning, so there were no holdbacks. Also the project was very good prepared and the goals
were clearly set. The SBD's are very clear, complex and applicable. It was very important for the
project documentation to be prepared on time and very exactly and professionally.
HEP T finds that the most important factors for the project success could be divided in two
categories:
1. Nongovernmental factors which are good and qualified team consisted of different
professions (economical, technical and juridical); good communication among team members
and on time procurement and supply of goods, works and services.
2. Governmental factors are issuing regulations on time and a care for accurate implementation
of the ones.

From this project HEP T draw some conclusions. One would be that in future, it would be good
to have the possibility to have one year extra reserved in cases if some problems occur during the
implementation especially if the subject is of the project is related to season business such is
district heating. In that way should be adjusted all the terms (the opening and the closing date of
the project). The other is that in future HEP T is going to be more careful with signing new
project contracts, in a way that HEP T can really affect on the things contract obligates us on. In
the DH project there were the earlier mentioned institutional factors (tariffs) on which HEP T
could not have any influence on.




                                                43
HEP T's Comments on the Bank's Draft ICR

   (1) HEP T replaced DH pipelines with its own funds during the project in addition to the
       amounts mentioned in the ICR from 2006 to 2010 in the length of 2.83 km in Zagreb, and
       from 2007 to 2010 in the length of 420 m in Osijek.
   (2) In 2007 the total quality heating service evaluation result was 84%, and in 2010 it was
       85% in Zagreb and for Osijek it was 90% in 2007 and 89% in 2010. Looking at the
       results we could conclude that the result remains the same. But if we consider the overall
       situation in Croatia, the bad financial situation of the consumers and the dissatisfaction
       with the global situation in the country because of the recession crisis, we can conclude
       that the results are more than satisfying. In many other surveys conducted in 2010 by the
       consultant who prepared the surveys for HEP T, the results are worse than in the years
       before.




                                              44
ANNEX 8. Comments   of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


N/A




                                          45
ANNEX 9. List   of Supporting Documents



     Project Implementation Plan

     Project Appraisal Document for Croatia: District Heating Project dated March 24, 2006 (Report
     No: 35460-HR)

     Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

     Project Progress Reports.

     Borrower's Evaluation Report dated August 2010

     Consumers' satisfaction with district heating system in Zagreb and Osijek 2007 and 2010


*including electronic files




                                                 46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33394R1



                                                                                                      CR O ATI A
This map was produced by
the Map Design Unit of The
World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                         MAIN ROADS
colors, denominations and
any other information shown                                             COUNTY (ZUPANIJA) CAPITALS                                                                        RAILROADS
on this map do not imply, on
the part of The World Bank                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                  COUNTY (ZUPANIJA) BOUNDARIES
Group, any judgment on the
legal status of any territory,
or any endorsement or
                                                                        RIVERS                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
acceptance of such
boundaries.



                           14°E                               15°E                                16°E                                     17°E                                    18°E                                     19°E


                            A US TR
                              U
                            AU STR I A                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                           Zalaegerszeg


                                                                                              To                  MEDIMURSKA                  To
                                                                                             Graz                                           Kaposvar
                                                                                                                       Cakovec
                                                                              To
                                                                                                    Varazdin
                                                                                                          VARAZDINSKA                     KOPRIVNICKO-
                                                                                                                                                                         HUNGA RY
                                                                           Ljubljana                                   Koprivnica KRIZEVACKA
                                                                                                  Krapina
                                                                                           KRAPINSKO-                                             Durdevac                                                            To
46°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Baja                               46°N
                                                                                           ZAGORSKA                                                                       To
                                      SLOVEN
                                      SLOVENI
                                      S LOVEN I A                       To                                      ZAGREBACKA                 Bjelovar
                                                                                                                                                                         Pecs                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pecs                              To
                                                                     Ljubljana                ZAGREB                                                                   Virovitica                                                  Sombor
                                                                                                                       Ivanic BJELOVARSKO-
                                                                           ZAGREBACKA              GRAD                Grad BILOGORSKA                                                              OSJECKO-
                                                                                                                                                                      VIROVITICKO-                                                     To
            To                                            To                                      ZAGREB                                   Daruvar                    PODRAVSKA                    BARANJSKA
                             To                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sombor
          Trieste          Trieste                     Ljubljana
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Osijek
                                                                                                      K up a           Sisak
                                                                                       Karlovac                                Sav                            POZESKO-SLAVONSKA Nasice
                                                                                                                                     a     Novska                               
                                                                                                                                                                               Pozega                            Vukovar             un




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D
             ISTARSKA                       Rijeka                                                                                                                                                                                        ay (
                                                                                                  Glina                                                                                                                                       Danube)
                Pazin                                                                                                                                                                                                       Vinkovci
                                                                                                  SISACKO-MOSLAVACKA                                    BRODSKO-                            Slav
     
  Porec                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                        PRIMORSKO-                  KARLOVACKA                                                                          POSAVSKA                            Brod               VUKOVARSKO-                         Novi Sad
                                        GORANSKA                                                                                                                                                                  SRIJEMSKA
                                                                                               To               Dvor     To                                To                                                                                 To
                              Stalije            Krk                                          Bihac                      Prijedor                       Banja Luka                                                                            Ruma      45°N
45°N                                                         Senj                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                    Doboj           To          To
             Pula                                                                                                                                                                                  Doboj       Tuzla
                                                               Otocac                              To
                                                                                                  Bihac
                                     Cres      Rab              LICKO-
                                                 Jablanac
                                                               SENJSKA
                                                                                                      Un
                                                                                                        a




                                  Losinj
                                                       Karlobag               Gospic

                                                               Pag
                                                                                            Udbina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SERBIA
                                                                                                  Gracac
                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                   BOSNI A A ND
                                                                                                                                                                   BO SNIA AND
                                                                   Zadar
                                                                                       ZADARSKA                   Glamoc
                                                                                                                                                                  HERZEGO VINA
                                                         Pasman
44°N                                                    Dugi                                                                                                                                                                                            44°N
                                                                                                         Knin    Dinara
                                                        Otok                                                    (1830 m)

                                                                                         Vodice
                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                  Sibenik                                      Livno
                                                                                 SIBENSKO-                                         Sinj

                                  Adr iat ic                                     KNINSKA                 Trogir
                                                                                                                           Split
                                    Sea                                                                                                           Imotski
                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                Mostar
                                                                                                         SPLITSKO-
 I TA LY                                                                                           DALMATINSKA
                                                                                                                               Brac
                                                                                                                                              Makarska                     To
                                                                                                                                                                          Mostar
                                                                                                                                   Hvar

43°N                                                                                                      Vis                                                 Ploce             Metkovic                                                                43°N

                                                                                                                                          Korcula           Peljesac

                                                                                                                                     DUBROVACKO-                                                                     MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                                                                       Mljet                                 To
                                                                                                                                     NERETVANSKA                                                          Trebinje
                                                                                                                                                                                   Dubrovnik
                    CROATIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gruda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Podgorica


                                                                                                                                              0        20           40         60 Kilometers


                                                                                                                                              0                20                40 Miles
42°N

                    14°E                                   15°E                                    16°E                                       17°E                                          18°E                                     19°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JULY 2006
