ETliURlM      -ro                                        Q ES'R I CTED
REP 13ORT          S;SX                                          Report No  TO-531a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
May 31, 1966
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Free Exchange Rate (recent average)
Currency Unit   -   Baht (B)
Baht 20 80      =   U S  $1 00
Baht 1 00       =   U S $0 05
Baht 1, 000, 000 = U S $48, 100
Fiscal Year
October 1 to September 30
Units           =   Metric



THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of' Contents
Page
SUMMivARY                                                   1 - 11
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                  1
II   BACKGROUND INFORMATION                                        1
A   Geographic and Demographic                                1
B   The Transport Sector                                      2
III.  THE HIGHWAY SECTOR                                            4
A   Highway Administration                                    4
B   Characteristics and Growth of Vehicle Fleet               4
C   Traffic Volumes and Traffic Counts                        5
D   Highway Transport Industry                                5
IV   TRANSPORT COORDINATION                                        6
A   Introduction                                              6
B   Road-Rail Competition                                     7
C   User Charges                                              7
V   THE PROJECT                                                   8
A   General Description                                       8
B   Design and Consulting Services                            9
C   Cost Estimates and Foreign Component                     10
D   Project EKecution                                        11
VI   ECOINOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                      12
A   Introduction                                             12
B   The Project Roads                                        13
VII   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                              17
(Continued)
- ----- o O o -----
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a Bank Mission to
Thailand in December 1965 consisting of Messrs Hardy and Haker, and
upon engineering and economic feasibility studies prepared by several
consulting engineers during 1964-1965



Page 2
Table of Contents (continued)
TABLES
1. Vehicle Population & Rates of Growth
2. Users' Contribution & Highway Expenditures for Financial Years
starting October 1
3. Design Standards for Two Lane Primary Highways (Rural)
4. Design Standards for Project Road Sections
5. Estimate of Cost
6. Actual & Assumed Annual Rates of Growth of Motor Vehicles (%)
7. Vehicle Operating Costs in Flat Country for Inter-urban Roads
8. Traffic Forecasts for Project Roads
9. Rate of Return Summary for Indavidual Roads and Sections
MAP: THAILAND: National Highway System



THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
1l        The Government of the Kingdom of Thailand has requested the Bank's
assistance in financing a second highway project, the proposed project would
comprise
a) the improvement and construction of sections of four
national primary hLghways totalling about 770 kms,
b) the preparation of feasibility studies and engingering
for a further 190 kms of highway, and
c) the services of consulting engineers in connection
therewith.
ii.       The total cost of the project is about US$ 72 million equivalent
and a loan of US$ 36 million is proposed to cover the foreign exchange cost
of construction estimated at 48 per cent, and the foreign costs of engineer-
ing. The executing agency will be the Department of Highways of the Ministry
of National Development.
iii.      This will be the second Bank loan to Thailand for hLghways.  The
first loan of US$ 35 million (Loan 341-TH) was made in June 1963, but was
cut back to US$ 25 million in 1964 at the Government's request because, after
appraisal in 1962, a substantial amount of work was done on some of the
project roads by the Highway Department's own forces as a result of which the
Government desired to defer some of the improvement works by contract
originally envisaged in the project. After a slow start, progress on the
first project is now satisfactory and it should be completed on schedule by
the end of 1967. Consulting engineering services provided under the first
project concerning the re-organization of the HLghway Department, the train-
ing of Thai technical personnel, and the preparation of feasibility studies
and final engineering, have prepared the way for the proposed second project
and for future projects.
iv.       The registration of motor vehicles in Thailand has doubled over
the past six years and the present primary road system, although fairly
extensive in length, is inadequate even for existing traffic. Major improve-
ments will be needed to carry the traffic expected as the economy develops.
v.        The Government is placing special emphasis on highway construction
and improvement in its economic development program.  An investment of
US$ 400 million equivalent is envisaged during the period 1965-71 for the
construction of 4,500 kms of new roads and the paving of over 3,100 kms of
existing roads, which will almost double the present road capacity. The
proposed second highway project constitutes an integral part of the develop-
ment program.



- ii -
via       The road works included in the project are technically sound and
are economically justified by the reduction in general operating costs and
savings in maintenance costs on the new or improved roads compared with
existing roads.  When preparing traffic forecasts, recent and future increases
due to U.S. military activity and expenditure in Thailand have not been
taken into account. The average rate of return on total investment in project
roads is about 25 per cent.
V1i.      Construction contracts for the road works included in the project
will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. The
duration of the works is expected to be about 4 years with completion during
the first half of 1970.
Vlll.     The project is suitable for a Bank loan of uS$ 36 million equiva-
lent with a 24-year term including a 4-year period of grace



- 1 -
THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       The Government of the Kingdom of Thailand has requested the Bank's
assLstance in f mnancing a part of its highway program, the proposed project
would comprise the improvement and construction of about 770 kms of the
primary road system, and the services of consulting engineers in connection
therewith.  The total cost of the project is about US$ 72 million equivalent,
and a loan of Us$ 36 million is proposed to cover the estimated foreign
exchange cost.
2.       This will be the second Bank loan to Thailand for highways.  A loan
of US$ 35 million (341-TH, see Report No. TO-355a) was made in June 1963 for
a project consisting of (i) the construction and improvement of about 630 kms
of natLonal hLghways, (ii) the purchase of maintenance equipment, and
(iii) engineering services in connection with the works and for the re-organi-
zation of the Department of Highways including the training of Thai personnel.
Progress on the project was slow initially as a result of changes in the
Government, and of delays in appointing consulting engineers. In July 1964,
about 300 kms of roads were eliminated from the project at the Government's
request, and the loan amount cut back to US$ 25 million accordingly. The
principal reason for cancellation was that the work done by the Department's
own forces on these roads from the time of appraisal in 1962 postponed the
need for the major works by contract that had been envisaged in the original
project.
3.       Progress on the balance of the first project roads is now satis-
factory, all construction contracts have been awarded and work should be
completed on schedule by the end of 1967. Maintenance supply contracts have
been awarded and the re-organization of the Highway Department and the train-
img of Thai personnel are progressing satisfactorily.
II. BACKGROUND INFORMATION
A. Geographic and Demographic
4.       Thailand covers an area of approximately 510,000 sq. kms, and is
almost as large as France. It is bordered by Burma to the west, Laos to the
north, Cambodia to the east, and by the Gulf of Thailand and Malaya to the
south (see Map).
5.       Geographically and economically, Thailand is divided into five
regions. The Northern region is generally characterized by mountain ranges
running roughly north-south,  it is rich in agricultural products, timber
and minerals. The North-eastern region is a relatively flat dry plateau
forming part of the catchment basin of the Mekong river, its economy is



- 2 -
mainly characterized by subsistence farming. The Central region Includes
the wet lowland plains of the Chao Phya River and constitutes one of the
major rice producing areas in the world,  Bangkok, the capital and cormercial
center, is situated near the mouth of the Chao Phya. The Southern region
includes the major part of the isthmus linking ThailJand with Malaya, and
produces large quantities of tin and rubber. The South-eastern region,
between Bangkok and the Cambodian border, is mainly agricultural and produces
large quantities of cassava roots, mainly for export.
6.        The population of Thailand was about 32 million in 1965 and is
increasing at the high rate of about 3.3 per cent annually. Apart from a
noticeable concentration around Bangkok and the central plains, the popula-
tion is fairly well distributed throughout the country.
7.        Thailand's gross national product has been growming at the rapid
rate of 7 per cent per annum in recent years, it amounted to $ 3.8 billion
in 1965 or $ 120 per capita. Agriculture, the largest sector, accounts for
75 per cent of the labor force and 35 per cent of national product. Mianu-
facturing accounts for only 12 per cent of national product, but has been
expanding at 12 per cent per annum in recent years.
B. The Transport Sector
a) General
8.        Transportation in Thailand has been influenced by three main
factors- (a) most of the mountain ranges and rivers run from north to south;
(b) the urban centers are located in the lower Central region while most food
growing areas are further north and usually along the rivers and canals,
(c) most of the traffic consists of agricultural produce, which is carried to
the food-consuming and processing centers of the lower Central region and also
to the port of Bangkok for export.
9.        The result is that, on the whole, the country's main transport
arteries run from north to south, with a lateral network of secondary arteries
feeding into them. Communication from east to west is difficult and less
developed because several mountain ranges and rivers must be crossed.
10.       Except for the railways, there are no traffic statistics on
passenger and ton-kms by mode of transport. Nevertheless, the indirect
evidence imdicates that highway transport has been growing at such a rapid
rate in the last ten years that it is now the most 3nportant transport mode.
b) Highways
11.       The road network was developed in line with the geographic and
economic factors discussed previously (see paragraph 8), major arteries
radiate from Bangkok (see Map). Highway development was generally slow until
the early 1960's, but it has been accelerated since, so that between 1960 and
1965 the network under the jurisdiction of the Department of Highways increased
from 8,300 to 9,400 kms and the length of paved roads from 2,800 to 5,000 kms.



-3-
Nevertheless, the present system is quite inadequate even for the existing
traffic, and major improvements will be needed to carry the traffic to be
expected as the economy develops. The Departments of Irrigation and Agricul-
ture construct low class feeder roads and the Army constructs security roads,
but no statistics are available on their lengths.
12.       To overcome the inadequacies of the present road network, the Govern-
ment is placing special emphasis on highway improvements in the transport
sector of its economic development program. The Government's "Highway Construc-
tion and Improvement Plan, 1965-1971", envisages an investment of US$400
million for the construction of 4,500 kms of new roads, including four-lane
roads, and the paving of 3,100 kms of existing roads, this will almost double
the present road capacity. The Plan assumes that US$90 million will be
available from foreign lending for its financing. The presently proposed
second highway project constitutes an integral part of the Plan.
c) Railways
13.       The Thailand State Railway system consists of about 3,700 kms of
meter-gauge mainline track, radiating from Bangkok, the principal lines run
from north to south, as in the case of other transport modes. A six-year
improvement program was started in 1961 to increase the railway's carrying
capacity and operating efficiency, the program is partially financed by a
Bank loan of US$14.6 million (Loan No. 280-TH). Performance has been generally
satisfactory, but there have been some procurement difficulties and
delays.
14.       Freight traffic amounted to about 1.5 billion ton-kns in 1964 and
has been growing at an annual rate of 5% the past four years. The average haul
was 385 kms and has been increasing slowly. The major cormodities carried are
rice, petroleum products, cement and clinker, they account for 80% of the
traffic. The volume of passenger-kms has been increasing at 4.5% per annum
and totalled 2.8 billion in 1964.
d. Inland Waterways
15.       Thailand has an extensive inland waterways system of about 1600 Ihns,
which is concentrated largely in the Central region. It is essentially based
on the Chao Phya and its major tributaries, and on canals linking these rivers.
This mode of transport is particularly suitable for the movement of bulk cargo,
such as paddy, rice and petroleum products. No reliable statistics are
available on the quantities carried but they have been estimated at 4.5 million
tons, of which about one-half is rice and paddy.



-4-
III. TH1 HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. Highway Adminmstration
16.       National roads in Thailand are divided into three classes   primary,
secondary, and provincial (feeder). In 1963, responsibility for provincial
(feeder) roads was transferred from the Ministry of Interior to the Department
of Highways of the Ministry of National Development, which is now responsible
for the construction, improvement and maintenance of all classes of national
road in the country   It is the policy of the Department to employ consult-
ing engineers to prepare feasibility studies, final engineering, and to
supervise the construction of all major highway works.
17        Prior to 1964, the Department was organized into more or less
separate technical Divisions with a multiplicity   of common administrative
activities but with little delegation of authority from the Director-General
of the Department. In 1964, a reorganization of the Department was begun on
a functional basis into three Deputy-Directorates Administration (concerned
with personnel, accounting and procurement), Engineering (planning, survey,
design and bid documents), and Operations (construction supervision, main-
tenance and equipment)   In this connection, experts from the U.K   consulting
firm, O'Sullivan & Partners, are providing advisory assistance under the first
Bank loan, with further assistance being provided by a U.S firm, Public
Administration Service, under a USAID grant. The consultants' recommendations
are slowly being implemented and the Department is beginning to function more
efficiently. One of the dlfficulties has been to find competent Thai techni-
cal personnel to fill key positions in the organization. A vigorous recruit-
ing drive together with the Bank-sponsored training program, both now underway,
and a future reclassification of Civil Service salary scales are expected to un-
prove the staffing situation.
18.       Highway maintenance suffered in the past from inadequate central
control and coordination. The tendency of field Divisions was to concentrate
on force account construction at the expense of maintenance   Much attention
has been given in the past few years to improving the highway maintenance
organization, and to stopping force account works. Road and shop equipment
is being purchased under the first loan project, and a local training program
has been started for drivers, mechanics and equipment operators with the
assistance of the consulting experts. Annual highway maintenance operations
are generally satisfactory, but there is still a tendency for the field
maintenance engineers to spend part of their appropriations on highway
improvement works to the detriment of routine maintenance
19o       The design standards for the three classes of national highway
have been reviewed recently by the Department's consulting advisors and
slight modifications have been introduced to proQuce more economical designs
for low-trafficked roads.
B. Characteristics and Growith of Vehicle Fleet
20.       One of the most striking aspects of the economic development of
Thailand has been the rapid growth of the vehicle fleet in recent years (see
Table 1)   The annual rate of growth between 1959 and 1964 was a high 1h%,



with the rate for trucks even higher at 17%, The number of vehicles reached
nearly 170,000 in 1964, resulting in a vehicle density of one per 200 persons
21.       The geographic distribution of vehicles is very uneven. Bangkok,
with a population of two million, accounts for one-half of the country's
vehicle fleet, involving one car per 23 persons, in the rest of the country,
the density is only one-fifteenth that of Bangkok. However, the annual rate
of growth of the vehicle fleet for areas outside Bangkok has been 18%,
compared to 11% for Bangkok.
C. Traffic Volumes and Traffic Counts
22.       Systematic traffic counts were begun only in 1962.   Today there are
sixteen counting stations spread throughout the country in which dally vehicle
counts are made in October, January, April and July. In addition there are
250 control stations in which five eight-hour counts are made each April and
October. Counts are made manually, but 16 mechanical counting staticns will
start to fLnctamn n 1966. Although some errors and inconsistencies were apparent
in the early years, checks of recent figures show considerable improvement.
23.       On the basis of counts at all 266 stations it appears that the traf-
fic has been growing at an annual rate of about 20% between 1962-1965. In
areas without good roads, the growth rate is generally only 5-10% whereas in
areas where good roads have recently been constructed, the annual rate of
growth has been 30% or more in the last three years.
D. Highway Transport Industrv
2h4       Even though freight and passenger transport are carried out pre-
dominantly by private operators, a substantial amount of their traffic is
obtained through arrangements with the two major Government-owned companies
the Express Transportation Organization (ETO), and the Transport Company (TC).
25,       The ETO operates a public trucking service with about 600 vehicles,
a few buses, an inland waterway service, gasoline stations, a printing press,
and an insurance business. ETO has a monopoly on certain trucking activities
such as cargo pick-up and deliver! at 96 railway stations, through freight
to Laos and transport of tobacco and cigarettes for the Government tobacco
monopoly. Other truckers may participate in these activities only under
contract with ETO and upon payment of a fee. ETO also exerts an important
influence on routes and services for which it does not have a formal
monopoly by acting as >. iorwarding ageu. on which small trucKers are dependent
for their business.
26.       The Transport Company (TC) was established to provide intercity
highway passenger transportation and to control bus fares throughout the
country. The company itself operates only about 100 buses but it issues
licenses to smaller operators owning between them 3,000 buses. The fee for
the license is US¢ 0.5 per vehicle-kIn, which represents an addition of about
5% to vehicle operating costs. Buses without license are not allowed to



-6-
operate on the National highways   In general, however, the service provided
the public is satisfactory
27.       Both ETO and TC appear to be in a strong monopoly position but the
Government does little to regulate their activities. There is some evidence
that their monopoly over pick-up and delivery services for certain commodities
at some railway stations adversely affects traffic on the railways, and that
one of the reasons for the congested conditions of the port of Bangkok may be
the inadequacy of the trucking service provided by ETO. The control and
influence of ETO and TC over private transport also appear to conflict with
the generally accepted policy of adequate competition, but there is no evidence
that their operations have substantially hampered road transport development
or that they would adversely affect the utilization of the road project under
consideration. Since the Bank has investments in Thai ports and railways and
may wish to consider future lending in these fields, and moreover, in the
broader interest of achieving better transport co-ordination, the practices
of ETO and TC were discussed during the loan negotiations. It was agreed to
include the operation of the ETO and the TC as an item in the transportation
co-ordination study to be undertaken by consultants in the near future (see
para 29).
28.       Satisfactory legislation for the regulation of motor vehicle weights
and dimensions was enacted in 1960. The gross vehicle weight limitations are
18 tons on three-axle and 14 tons on two-axle trucks. Enforcement is somewhat
lax and overloadlng of vehicles is still in evidence, but during negotiations
the Government delegation agreed to implement existing legislation more
effectively. The mechanical condition of vehicles is checked in a rather
perfunctory fashion. There are no limitations on entry into the trucking
industry except for truckers registering as limited liability compan ies,
which require a bank guarantee of $ 50,000, must operate at least ten trucks,
and must have suitable garage space and repair facilities
IV. TRANSPORT CO-ORDINATION
A   Introduction
29.       Responsibility for the administration of the transport system is
divided among a number of agencies and organizations. The State Railways is
an autonomous entity with its own Board of Directors, and is under the general
supervislon of the Ministry of Communications. The Department of Highways is
in the Ministry of hational Development. Other Ministries, such as Agricul-
ture build their own roads with little consultation with the Highway Depart-
ment. There is no consultation and joint formulation of policy between the
highway and railway authorities, in theory, the National Economic Development
Board should perform this function, but so far has given it low priority. In
practice, the lack of a systematic policy of transport co-ordination does not
appear to have led to any serious distortions in the use of transportation
resources in the past. However, the increasing rate of highway investment and
the trend towards long distance truck haul will create a need for closer
future transport co-ordination in the future. During loan negotiations the



-7-
problem of better t:ansport co-ordination was discussed  At the consultative
group meeting held in c, e UK on May 16/17, 1966, the U.S. Government evinced
interest Ln financing a +Lanis )ort study to be undertaken by consultants.  The
Thai delegation indicateo tha4i assistance from the Bank would be welcomed in
formulating the terms of reference for such a study
B Road-Rail Competition
30.       Until 1960, the railway was in a favorable competitive position
because the length of paved roads was relatively small. Trucking costs were
higher than railway costs even over relatively short distances  Since 1960,
however, the Government has sharply increased highway investments, reducing
vehicle operating costs substantially. As a result, road transport has been
increasing at 20 per cent per annum while railroad traffic increased at only
3-4 per cent and less-than-carload traffic actually declined. The railway has
to rely increasingly on long h'iul bulk traffic for which it is the best suited
means of transport   the average distance of haul increased from 307 kms in
1955 to 385 kms in 1964, and bulk goods like cement, petroleum, rice and lumber
now account for 90 per cent of its traffic
31        With further road improvements, trucking costs will decline con-
siderably. The real cost of trucking on good roads of the kind that are being
constructed under Bank-financed projects is about US¢ 1.7 per ton-km, which is
about the same as railway costs for a dlstance of 40o kms, in addition,
trucks would have an advantage as far as speed and convenience are concerned,
Unless steps are taken to reduce the operating costs of the State Railways,
their competitive position is likely to deteriorate. As indicated in para. 29,
the question of highway/railway competition will be included in a future
transportation study.
C User Charges
32.       Highway user charges consist primarily of vehicle and fuel taxes
and, to a lesser extent, of license fees and tolls  Taxes on vehicles consist
of import duties, and excise and municipal taxes. Their joint incidence
amounts to 100 per cent on CIF values for passenger cars, 71 per cent for
jeeps, 46 per cent for trucks and buses and 38 per cent for spare parts  The
gasoline tax is B 0.80 per liter, with a retail price of B 1.80 (US¢ 33 per
US gallon), and the diesel tax is B 0 12 per liter, with a retail price of
B 0 80-1.00 depending on the quality   The tax on lubricating oil is B 1.00
per liter, with a retail price of B 9 10. Yearly license fees vary from B 200
to 400 (US$ 10-20) per private car, depending on size, and B 600-700 (US$ 30-
35) per bus or truck. The collection of tolls has been gradually reduced so
that today only two toll stations remain, covering 60 kms of road.
33        The available data on road user charges are not very reliable  The
actual revenue statistics indicate that road users paid about US$ 50 million
in 1964/65. However, these statistics appear incomplete and inconsistent so
that separate estimates were made indirectly by, for example, multiplying
gasoline consumption figures by the gasoline tax. On the basis of these cal-
culations, it appears that the road user paid about US$ 60-65 million in
1964/65. Since any comparison between railway and road service should be made
primarily for intercity (rural) traffic, it is necessary therefore to exclucie



-8-
the user charge revenues from intracity (urban) traffic, primarily in Bangkok.
This cannot be done with any great refinement but it appears that the inter-
city traffic accounts for 20-30% of user charges, meaning that the user of
the intercity network in 196h/1965 paid somewhere between $45-50 mill2on in
user charges.
34.       A rough comparison of the annual revenues and costs of the road
system with those of the railways indicates that, while both are subsidized to
some extent, the railways seem to receive a somewhat greater subsidy than does
highway transport
V. THE PROJECT
A General Description
35.       The project includes
a) the improvement and construction of sections of four
national primary highways totalling 768 kms, as follows
i) Bangkok-Siracha    96 Kms
ii) Nakorn Sawan-Chiengrai    418 Kms
iii) Udorn-Sakolnakorn    160 Kms
iv)  Khonkaen-Chumphae   95 Kms
b) the review and revision of existing engineering designs
and the supervision of construction and improvement works
on the above 768 kms of road, and
c) the preparation of feasibility studies and the review
and revision of engineering for about 190 kms of road
36.       The Bangkok-Siracha road carried traffic volumes in 1965 ranging
from 6,200 to 9,500 vehicles per day   The existing road is inadequate in
strength and capacity, with only a 6 m wide, poorly paved surface and with
narrow shoulders. It traverses low coastal flats of poor soil which has little
bearing strength. Maintenance costs are heavy    Accident rates are high.
37.       The project will provide for the construction of a 400 m four-lane
bridge on the outskirts of Bangkok, sections of four-lane concrete highway
for a distance of 6 kms from Bangkok and through the towns of Cholburi and
Siracha, the construction of a new bituminous surfaced road 7 m wide and
45 kms long to short-cut the existing coastal section of road, and a similar
new road parallel to the existing road southward to Siracha, forming together
a four-lane highway. Suitable construction materials for embankment and pave-
ment structures are not available in the vici nity and will have to be trans-
ported long distances.



- 9 -
38.       The existing Nakorn Sawan-Chiengral road carried traffic volumes
in 1965 ranging from about 125 to 900 vehicles per day.  The terrain is
mainly flat and rolling with short sections of hilly to mountainous terrain
between Thern-Lampang-Ngao. From Makorn Sawan to Klong Klung, a distance of
77 kms, the present road is poorly paved lath a width of about 5.5-6 m and
with narrow 0.75 m shoulders, in some places it is loJ in elevation and
liable to flooding. From laong Klung to Thern, a distance of 194 kms, the
road consists of unsurfaced laterite which is badly corrugated and requires
heavy maintenance. During the dry season the road becomes very dusty, and
when traffic exceeds about 300 vehicles per day the resulting clouds of dust
seriously limit the capacity of the road, The 100 km section between Thern
and Lampang is similarly unsurfaced and dusty, the alignment is bad and
dangerous where the road traverses mountainous terrain. The 87 Ian section
between Lampang and Ngao is paved but the alignment is poor. The remain-Ing
107 kms from Ngao to Chiengrai is again of unsurfaced laterite, generally dusty
and corrugated, and in places passing through low-lying, water-logged terrain0
19.       The project will provide for the Improvement of 418 kms of the
total length of 600 kms between Nakorn Sawan and Chiengrai, excluding the
section between Thern-Lampang-Ngao, it includes earthworks to raise the
grade in low-)ying areas, a strengthened sub-base and base course with a
bituminous surfacing 6.5-7 m aide according to traffic volume, and wridened
shoulders. The cost of new construction on the mountainous, 100 kI long,
Thern-Lamparg section would be relatively high and the investment does not
appear to be justified within the next three to four years on the basis of
available traffic data, The section of road between Lampang and Ngao is
already paved for most of the way and, although the alignment is dangerous
in places, improvement should be made progressively as traffic increases.
40-       The Udorn-Sakolnakorn and Khonkaen-Chumphae roads respectively
carried traffic volumes of about 300 and 500 vehicles per day in 1965, they
both pass through flat to rolling terrain and consist of unsurfaced laterite
roadbeds aboat 8 to 10 m wide with many loJ strength tLmber bridges.  In
places the roads cross low-lying terrain liable to flooding. Driving
conditions are difficult in the rainy season, while in the dry months the
roads become dusty and corrugated. Highwiay maintenance costs are heavy.
41        The project works provide for the improvement of the roads on
the existing alignment, and include earthworks to raise the grade, the
construction of an adequate sub-base and base course with a bituminous
surfacing 6.5 m wide and with adequate shoulders, and the construction of
concrete bridges.
B. Desirn and Consulting Services
42.       Design standards for the primary highway system generally are
indicated in Table 3 and are satisfactory. The specific design standards
for the dlfferent lengths of project road are indlcated in Table 4 and,
based on traffic forecasts, range from four lane-divided for sections of
the Bangkok-Siracha road to varying widths of two-lane primary road for
the balance of the project.



-10-
43       All four roads included in the project have already been finally
engineered by Thai or foreign consulting firms, two by the Danish firm,
KAMPSAX, as part of the first Bank project. Some checking and minor re-
vision of the engineering wlll be necessary on the Banglok-Siracha and
Nakorn Sawan-Ch-Lengrai roads in order to comply with the standards agreed
during appraisal. KAMPSAX have been retained for the former roaa while
proposals are being sought in connection with the latter   The consulting
services will also provide for further study of the economic feasibility
and engineering of the 190 km section of the Nakorn Sawan-Chiengrai road
between Thern and Ngao, which, although included in the original loan
application, is not considered sufficiently justified for Bank financing
at this time. The scope of the consultants' work was discussed and agreed
upon   during loan negotiations.
414       The acquisition of right-of-way should not present any problems,
most of the project works comprise the improvement of existing roads where
right-of-way is already available. A start has already been made on the
acquisition of land for sections involving new construction on the Bangkok-
Siracha road.
45        Toll charges of B3 per car and B10-15 for buses and trucks are
levied by the Highway Department on traffic using a section of the existing
Bangkok-Siracha road. This section is one of the two remaining toll roads
in Thailand, the revenues from which are used by the Department for road
maintenance in the region. The existing toll section will be by-passed by
the new project road alignment, but the Highway Department has not yet
decided whether to transfer the toll charge to the project road. The
Departmentls future policy regarding tolls uas generally discussed
during loan negotiations, and assurances were obtained that the Bank would be
consulted prior to the levying of any toll on the project road.
C. Cost Estimates and Foreign Component
46        Cost estimates for all roads in the project are based on final
engi4±eering studies completed within the last two years. Changes in design
standards, resulting mainly in reduced widths of pavement and roadbed,
and in minor realignment, were recommended by the appraisal mission and
accepted by the Department. The changes necessitated a revision of quantities
for the Bangkok-Siracha and Nakorn Sawan-Chaengrai roads. The revised
quantities were estimated provisionally by the Department's consulting
advisers and, with a physical contingency allowance of 10%,are considered
realistic. The project cost estimates were confirmed during loan negotiations
47        The foreign currency component of cost of highway construction
by foreign contractors in Thailand has been variously estimated by consulting
engineers to range from 46% to 54% according to the nature and location of
the work and to the construction period allowed. The foreign component would
be about 10 percentage points less for work executed by Thai contractors.



-11-
Of six contracts covering construction on the first highway project, the
smallest was successfully bid by a Thai contractor. Assuminmg a similar basis
of contract award and taking into account the nature of the second project
rorks, a foreign component of 48% is considered a reasonable estimate
48.       Estimates of the pro-ect costs and foreign component are detailed
in Table 5, a summary is given below
Total Cost         Foreign
(B mill)  ($ mill)     ($ Mill)
1. Road construction &
improvement works        1,203      57 8         27.8  (48%)
2. 15% Contingency allowance   180      8.7          4.2
a) 10% physical
b)  5% price escalatlon
3. Consulting engineering
services                   125       6.0          3.6  (60%)
Total       1,d08      72.5         35.6
Say $36 million.
49        A 10% contingency allowiance has been made for possible increases in
estimated physical quantities during construction. A low price escalation
contingency of 5, is deemed adequate over the expected four years duration of
the project considering the stability of the cost of living and construction
cost indices an Thailand over the past few years.
D. Project Ececution
50        The works will be executed by contract on a unit price basis and
will be open to international competitive bidding, proposed procurement
procedures are satisfactory. There has been good response from international
contractors on the first highway project, and keen competition is expected
for the second project works. Supervision of construction will be the
responsibility of consulting engineers. The Highway Department's technical
and administrative resources are considered adequate to meet the demands of
its normal functions and those of the two Bank projects.
51        Bids have already been called for the first section of the
Bangkok-Siracha road, and a contract amounting to US$3.4 million equivalent
was awarded to an Italian-Thai firm an December 1965. The Bank was kept
fully informed and the Department carefully followed the Bank's prescribed
procedures in placing the contract, it is therefore recommended for Bank
participation as part of the project. An appropriate date for retroactive
disbursement from the loan account would be December 1, 1965.



- 12 -
52.       Bidding and constructaon of the project works is expected to take
about four years, and should be completed during the first half of 1970. The
planned construction program and procurement procedures were confirmed during
loan negotiations. Assuming the proposed loan to be declared effective
about   the middle of 1966, the annual dlsbursement rate wolild probably be
as follows
(in US$ million)
1966         1967         1968         1969         Total
h.3         12.8         13.3          5 6          36.0
Local currency financing would be met from budget appropriations. Experience
on the first project would indicate that no problem is likely to arise in
this respect.
VI.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Introduction
53        The rapid rate at which Thailand's economy has been expanding in
recent years, and the remarkable growth of the vehicle fleet and traffic have
already been described (see paragraphs 20-23)   A part of this expanslon
during the last year has been caused by American military expenditures, but
in the traffic forecasts and benefit calculations made in this appraisal, the
traffic resulting from a continuation of such American expenditures has not
been taken into account   If they continue in the coming years, the traffic
would be higher than here estimated and the benefits would be larger, but
since they would not accrue wholly to Thailand's economic development, no
allowance has been made for them.
5h.       The Government's second Five-Year Economic Plan assumes that the
national product will continue to grow at about 7% per annum between 1967-
1971. As for individual sectors, agricultural production is likely to grow
somewhat more slowly, whereas manufacturing, mining and transport will grow
at rates close to 10%.
55        The annual rate of growth of the vehicle fleet, which has averaged
14% in recent years, has been assumed to continue at only 10% and, except for
a slightly increased growth in light vehicle population, to decline gradually
to about 8% in 1975-80 (see Table 6)   The number of vehicles would thus
increase from nearly 170,000 in 1964 to 300,000 in 1970 and 750,000 in 1980
In 1980 there would be about one vehicle for 70 persons, which is similar to
the situation in Greece in 1963. It has been assumed conservatively that
traffic (measured as vehicle-kms) will grow at the same rate as the growth
in the vehicle fleet even though there is evidence that traffic has been
growing recently at a rate about one-third higher.



- 13 -
56         In addition to the general traffic growth discussed above, the road
improvements will themselves generate new traffic in areas of economic poten-
tial. On the basis of experience with other roads in Thailand, it has been
assumed that on roads in poor condition and with less than 500 vehicles per
day, the improvements will generate new traffic by about two to three times the
percentage reduction in vehicle operating costs, i.e. a reduction of 20% in
costs will generate a 40-60% increase in traffic.
57.        The most important economic benefit resulting from the project will
be reduced transport costs. Studies of vehicle operating costs under dlf-
ferent conditions have been made by consultants in Thailand and checked
against recent studies by the Bank. Table 7 indicates the operating costs for
two classes of vehicle (car and truck) on three types of road (paved, gravel
and earth) and forms the basis for determining the savings accruing from the
construction and improvement of the project roads.
58.        The only time savings taken into account are the wages of truck
drivers and imputed interest on all vehicles. Passenger's time has not been
considered because the value of time is still very low in Thailand. Vehicle
operation under less congested conditions on some of the project roads will
allow increased operating speeds with consequent time and operating savings.
Additional benefits from the project roads will result from their straighter
alignments which shorten distances to be travelled.
59         A further benefit included in the analysis is the saving in high-
way maintenance costs when a road is upgraded from gravel to bituminouc
surface. Annual maintenance costs for a gravel road lith about 300 vehicles
per day is US$800 per km after which costs increase sharply with increasing
volumes of traffic, and exceed the cost of maintaming a bitumunous surfaced
road at about 500 vehicles per day. All sections of project roads not doing
so now are expected to carry over 500 vehicles per day a few years after
completion.
B. The Project Roads
60.        For the purposesof appraisal and assessing economic returns, the
project roads have been broken down into sections on the basis of type of
terrain, volume of traffic, and economic considerations of the zones of
influence, in such a way as to produce more or less homogeneous units.
61         Traffic forecasts for the various sections of road are based on
1965 volumes projected at the general growth rates mentioned in paragraphs
55-56 and Table 6, with slight adjustments to accord with local condLtions
(see Table 8).
62         The economic benefits described in paragraphs 57-59 above have
been assessed for the respective sections of project roads over an assumed
useful economic life of twenty years and expressed as rates of return on
total investment cost (see Table 9). The rates are satisfactory and vary
from 11% to 36%, with an average of about 25% for the whole project.   In
addition, the project roads would generate social, administrative and other
benefits which are difficult to quantify.



a) The Bangkok-Siracha Road
63        The project road is a 95 km length of the trunk road that crosses
the Southeastern region from Bangkok to the Cambodian border. The technical
features of the existing road are described in paragraph 36. The proposed new
road can be considered in three sections first, a six-kilometer four-lane
divided highway that will constitute an approach road to the Metropolitan Area
of Bangkok, the second section will be 45 kms long, short-cutting the present
road and reducing the distance between Bangkok and Cholburi, an important
industrial town, by 13 lans. The third section will be L4 kms long and together
with the present road will form a four-lane divided highway between Cholburl
and Siracha.
64        The Southeastern region is one of the most developed areas in
Thailand, with an economy based mainly on agriculture and industry. The region,
though representing only 7% of the country, grows 80% of the total cassava
crop of 2 million tons, practically all of which is exported, one-third of
the sugar cane crop of 5 million tons and 10% of the paddy crop of 10 million
tons. The area between Bangkok and Cholburi is highly industrialized by
Far Eastern standards, and includes a petroleum refinery with a capacity of
one million tons, several textile mills, sugar and tapioca refineries and
several food processing plants. There are some 60 sizeable firms in the
area with a total invested capital of US$90 million.
65        Traffic on the present road in 1965 varied from 9,500 near Bangkok
to over 6,000 vehicles per day near Siracha. Between 1962-1965 the volume
of traffic grew at 30% per annum. The present two-lane road is now function-
ing at about twice its practical capacity and is heavily congested.
60        For the purpose of economic evaluation, traffic has been assumed to
increase at an annual ratp of about 10% through 1975, which is only 1/3 of
the actual rate of growth in recent years. The reduction in vehicle operatimng
costs and time savings due to the anproved surface, segregation of traffic and
shortcutting of travel distance will yield an average rate of return of 31%
over the lifetime of the investment. Table 9 indicates the rates of return
for individual sections, which range from 23%-36%.
b) The Nakorn Sawan-Chiengrai Road
67        The project road covers the northern two-thirds of a 950 km trunk
road that traverses the country from Bangkok to the Burmese border. The
southern third between Saraburi and Nakorn Sawan is also planned for early
construction but has not been included in the proposed Second Highway Project
because final engineering is not yet finished.  A feasibility study made for
the southern section shows a very high rate of return, and it is likely to
be submitted for  future    Bank financing.
68.       The Nakorn Sawan-Chiengrai road passes through the northern part of
the intensely cultivated Central Valley, then through the hilly, sparsely
inhabited but well-forested lower Northern Region, and finally enters the
well developed Northern Plateau. Its present technical characteristics are
described in paragraph 38. The road serves two primary functions first,
it is the backbone of the transportation network of the Northern Region,



-15-
second, it connects the Region with the populous and well-developed Central
Valley, including Bangkok.
69        The Northern Region has an area of 152,000 sq kms and a population
of about 6 million. It can be conveniently considered in three parts the
southern one-third, which forms part of the Central Valley where the predcminant
economic activity is the growth of rice and sugar cane, the middle-third,
which is mountainous, thickly forested and relatively devoid of population,
and the northern third, a plateau with good grazing land, forests and
agriculture where 60% of the country's maize, one-half of the cotton and
groundnut crops, and three-fourths of the tobacco crops are grown. All the
country's teakwood production comes from the Northern Region as well as
one-half of all other timber.
70.      About 20% of the population of the Northern Region is non-agricultura,
but the spread of the urban population is not even. A large cluster of towns
is to be found in the plateau area of the northern third, comprising Lampang
with a population of 50,000, Lampoon 15,000, Pajao 23,000, Chiengral 15,000
and Chiengmai 95,000, the latter being the second largest city in Thailand.
Chiengmai is an important cultural and tourist center, out also has a fair
amount of industries such as cotton, silk weavLng, lacquerware, wood work,
saw mills, tanneries, rice, flour and sugar mills.
71       The economic growth of the northern plateau has been one of the
highest in the country during recent years. In this connection, a 104 km road
between Chiengmai, Lampoon and Lampang is being financed under the current
Bank loan for highways. The road connecting Lampoon and Lampang will pass
through very difficult mountainous terrain, will reduce the distance between
these two towns by two-thirds, and will open up new lands. It is expected to
accelerate the economic growth of the northern plateau and to generate more
traffic on adjacent sections of the project road through Lampang.
72       The benefit analysis for the project road, 605 kms long between
Nakorn Sawan and Chiengrai, was made for six separate sections varying between
80-150 kms in length on which daily traffic volumes in 1965 varied from a high
of about 900 vehicles for the southernmost section, to 125 on the central
section, and increased to 450 near Chiengrai. Heavy vehicles constitute 80%
of the traffic. The volume of traffic has been increasing rapidly over the
past three years with a high of about 16% per annum for the Klong Klung-Tak
section. Traffic growth on the road sections with low traffic density has
been much lower, and on the section between Thern and Larpang appears to lhave been
almost stagnant in recent years. This may be attributed in part to the low qua-
lity of the present road facility tvhich is not conducive to economic develop-
ment,
73.      For the purpose of the traffic forecast it has been assumed that
traffic will grow at a rate of 11%o between 1965-1980 for the first two sections
between Nakorn Sawan and Tak, corresponding to the expected rate of growth of
the vehicle population in the area. For the remaining four sections of 479 kIms
to Chiengraa. a low growth rat, of about 7) T-is assumnd.  In addition, tho estama-
tad volumes of gonurated traffic, as doscribed in paragraph 56 range u.p to 100,
of the 1965 volumes depending on the road section,



-16-
74.       The economic benefits included in the rate of return calculations
are primarily reductions in vehicle operating costs and reduced road mainten-
ance costs due to the better road. Four of the six road sections yield returns
ranging from 11% to 25% on investment and are considered adequately justified
for construction at this time (see Table 9).
75.       The bther two sections, Thern-Lampang-Ngao, appear to yield returns
lower than 9% on the basis of available data, and construction should be
deferred for the time being. Further investigation should be made of the
effect on traffic of open-ing the Chiengmai-Lampang road in 1½ years time,
which, together with a revision of the existing designs to lower standards
resulting in lower costs, would likely enhance the economic justification.
Moreover, as essential links in one of the two main North-South highways
of Thailand the road sections should eventually be upgraded like the rest.
Provision has therefore been made in the project for further engineering
and feasibility studies of the two sections between Thern-Lampang-Ngao.
76,       Although the Nakorn Sawan-Chiengrai road does not follow very
closely the railway line from Bangkok to Chiengnai, it still serves the needs
of the same general areas for long distance traffic. However, once a long
distance alternative to the railway is available in terms of a topgrade
highway, there is no doubt that truckers will make further in-roads into
railway traffic. No allowance is made for the quantity of railway traffic
that might be diverted to highways, but any diversion would only further
increase the benefits deriving from the project.
c) The Udorn-Sakolnakorn and Khonkaen-Chumphae Roads
77.       Both roads are situated in the Northeastern Region. The Udorn-
Sakolnakorn road is an easterly branch from the second trunk road that tra-
verses Thailand from south to north, and continues a further 80 km to the
Laotian Border at Nakorn Panom, on the Mekong River. The   honIk, o-Chumphae
road is a westerly branch from the same trunk road, aid is p!a_avtld as part
of an east-west trunk road that will traverse the whole countjy e'enbually.
Tne main technLical features of the existing roads are given in paragaaph 4o.
-8.       The Northeastern Region has an area of 170,000 sq. kms, and the 1960
population was about 9 million. It is the only major region of Thailand which
is exclusively dependent on land transport as it lacks domestic fluvial
connections. It is also one of the least developed areas in the country, 93%
of the population is in agriculture as compared with a national average of
75%. Most of the agriculture is of the subsistence type, 86% of the area
under cultivation grows rice of which only 28% is marketed.
79..      Only 4% of the population can be described as urban, the largest
towns being Khonkaen and Sakolnakorn with about 20-25,000 mihabitants, and
Udorn with 35,000. In the past few years the government has been paying
increasing attention to this region. The recent signs of political unrest
among the peasant population of the area have given new urgency and import-
ance to the drive to raise their living standards.



- 17 -
80.       The Government has therefore devoted a substantial amount of re-
sources to alleviating the problems of poverty in the area with considerable
assistance from the United States. These efforts have taken the form of
investments, principally in agriculture, irrigation and transport, both road
and rail, as well as expenditures on community development and the provision
of social amenities. Further increases in such outlays are in prospect as
the Government intends to intensify its efforts to improve lower standards.
The emphasis will again remain in agriculture and transport but this time in
roads.
81.       The recent development efforts made in the area and the building of
the US-financed "Friendship Highway" from Korat to Saraburi which linked the
northeast to the rest of the country caused traffic volume to develop at a
rapid rate of 32% per annum for the Udorn-Sakalnakorn and at 35% per annum
for the Khonkaen-Chumphae roads over the past three years, the 1965 daily
volumes were 300 vehicles and 500 respectively0
82          Forecasts have been based on the 1965 level of traffic, increased
by 50% to allow for generated traffic, and projected at a rate consistent with
the expected growth of the vehicle population in the region. Recognizing the
economic potential of the region, rates of about 13% per annum have been as-
sumed for the next ten years (less than half that in the preceding three years)
and about 8% for the five years thereafter. On this basis, daily traffic
volumes in 1980 are expected to be about 1800 vehicles for the Udorn-Sakalnakorn
and 2900 vehicles for the Khonkaen-Chumphae road. The benefits on account of
reduced vehicle operating costs and road maintenance costs produce a rate of
return on investment of 18% for the Udorn-Sakalnakorn road and 23% for Khonkaer-
Chumphae road.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOmvM DkTIONS
83         The first Bank-financed highway project in Thailand is satisfactorily
underway, and has prepared the way for the proposed second Bank project. Con-
sulting experts are advising the Department of Highways in its reorganization,
and in the planning and maintaining of the country's highway system. Technical
training programs for Thai personnel have been instituted both in Thailand
and abroad. The Department is gradually withdrawing from force account
construction, and consulting engineers are being made responsible for the
design and supervision of all major construction works. A considerable
interest is being shown by international contractors in bidding for highway
construction work in Thailand.
84.       The bulk of the studies and final engineering for the proposed second
highway project have been carried out by consulting engineers employed under
the first project. Cost estimates are realistic, and the project is well cor-
ceived and technically sound.
85.       The improvement and construction of the roads included in the
project are justified economically from the resulting reduction in vehicle
operating and road maintenance costs. The average rate of return on the
project investment from the principal quantifiable benefits is 25%.



-18-
86.       The project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 36 mrllion
equivalent with a term of twenty-four years including a four-year period of
grace,
Projects Department
May 31, 1966



TABLE 1
THAILAND
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Population & Rates of Growth
(rounded to nearest thousand)
A. National Totals
1959       1960       1961         1962        1963      196L
Cars               42,800     48,000     56,300      57,700      65,200     73,700
Buses              12,800     15,700     16,700       19,100      20,800    23,500
Trucks             28,500     34,800     39,600       46,400     56,300     62,200
Special Vehicles    3,600      3,700      4,800       6,000       7,700      9,100
Total      87,700    102,200    117,400      129,200    150,000    168,500
B. Bangkok-Thonburi Municipal Area
Cars               34,300     38,500     44,800      45,100      51,600     58,800
Buses               2,100      2,000      2,C00        1,900      1,800      2,100
Trucks             12,800     15,000     13,700       15,300      20,700    19,,400
Special Vehicles    ],000      1,000     1,300        1,400       2,200      2,900
Total      50,200     56,500     61,800       63,700      76,300    83,200
C. Rest of Country
Cars                8,500      9,500     11,500      12,600      13,700     14,900
Buses              10,700     13,700    14,700       17,200      19,000     21,400
Trucks             15,700     19,800     25,900       31,100      35,600    42,800
Special Vehicles    2,600      2,700      3,500      14,600     _5,400       6,200
Total      37,500     45,700     55,600       65,500      73,700    85,300
D. Average Annual Rates of Growth 1959-1964
Bangkok   Rest of Country   National Totals
Cars                        12,.        12%                12%
Buses                       0%0          15%               13'
Trucks                       9%          23%               17%o
Special Vehicles            24%          19%               22,
Average                  11%          18%               14t%
Scurce Department of Highways



TABLE 2
T HAILAND
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Users' Revenues and Highway Eypenditures
for Financial Years starting October 1
(US$ million)
A. Users' Revenues
Source                      1960/61  1961/62  1962/63 1963/64 196h/65
Fuel                          25.6     24 6     26.4     27.1     29.7
Taxes on Vehicle
Purchases & Spare
parts                       17 7     16.1     19.7     23 7     29.2
Licenses                       2.5      2.8      3 1      3 7      4 1
Tolls                          0 7      0 7      o.h      0.       o.5
Total             46 5     4  2      9 6     5  9     63.5
B.  Highway Expenditure  I
2/
1959/60 1960/61   1961/62  1962/63  ]963/64 196b/65   1965/66
Administration        1.7      3.1      4.4      6.2     10.1     10.1     11.0
Maintenance           5.2      4.3      5.1      8.0      9.2     10.1     15.
Construction         10.2     13 1     20.7     37.2     39.9     4o.7     49.7
Total    17.1     20.5     30.2     51.4     59.2     60.9     76.1
1/ This is a consolidation of yearly Department of Highway budgets
plus foreign aid for highways from Ex. Imp. Bank, USAID and the
World Bank.
2/ Budget Appropriation
Source  Department of Highways



TABLE 3
THAILAND
SECOND HIGINAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Two Lane Primary Highways (Rural) -
1. Bridge width      8 m minimmum
2. Vertical clearance         =450 m
3.  Design wheel load                 lO,00-12,000#
4. Design-bridge loading              H 20 - S 16
5. Geometric Design Features
Flat and Moder- Rolling and     Mountainous
atelv rolling      Hilly       and Alpine
Design speed (Km.p.h.)      80-100          60-80         50-60
Maxomum gradient              4%              6Oo           8%
Right of way (m.)           60-80           60-80         60-80
6. Roadway Features
Class                  P(l)            P(2)          P(3)
Annual equivalent
average daily 2/
traffic (ADT) -          8000-4000      4000-1500     below 1500
Suggested surface type      high          intermediate  intermediate
W4idth of surfacing (m.)   7.00-6.50      6.50-6C00        6.00
Width of shoulder (m.)
Flat terrain 3/          2.50-2.75      2,25-2.50        2.00
Width of road bed 3/          12             11             10
1/ Design standards for four-lane highways are similar to the P(1)
standard above (7 m. pavement), with a varying width of median strip.
2/ ADT based on 7-year projection, as follows
a) Rating of trucks & buses (3T and over)    2 flat & rolling terrain
3 mountainous terrain
b) All other motor vehicles                  1
3/ Widths reduced in mountainous and difficult terrain.
Source Department of Highways



TABLE h
SECOND HIGHAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Project Road Sections
1/   Surfaced
Length     Standard -      Width
(-m) -M-r
1. Bangkok-Siracha                 95
a) Bangkok - Km 6               6         4 lane        2 @ 7m. 2/
b) Km 6 - Cholburl             45         P(l)           7
c) Cholburi   Siracha          44         4 lane        1 © 7m. 3/
2. Nakorn Sawran - Chiengrai      418
a) Nakorn Sawan-Klong Klung    77         P(1)           7
b) Klong Klung-Tak            104         P(2)           6.5
c) Tak - Thern                 90         P(2)          6.5
d) Ngao - Chiengrai           147         P(2)          6.5
3. Udorn-Sakolnakorn              160         P(2)           6.5
4. Khonkaen-Chumphae               95         P(2)           6.5
Total       768
11 See Table 3, Item 6
2/ Including a 3 m. paved shoulder
3/ The new road will be constructed as a 2-lane, 7 m surface
wide road. Together with the existing 2-lane road, the system
will become a 4-lane highway.



TABLE 5
THAILAND
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimate of Cost
Total       Foreign
Length      Cost       Component
(Km)      (B mill)   (US$ mill)
A.  Construction and Improvement
1. Bangkok-Siracha                   95          426          9.8
2. Nakorn Sawan-Chiengrai
(excluding Thern-Lampang-Ngao)   418         464         107
3. Udorn-Sakolnakorn                160         194 4h5
4. Khonkaen-Chumphae                 95         119           2.8
768       1,203         27.8
5e 15% Contingency allowance      . . . . . . . 180           4.2
a) 10% physical
b)  5% price escalation
Subtotal                 1,383         32.0   (48%)
B. Engineering and Supervision
1o Revision of existing engineer-
ing designs and preparation of
biddlng documents for 1) & 2)
above 0 4% cost                                39
2. Supervision of construction of A)
above @ 6% cost                                79
3. Feasibility studies and revision
of engineering for a further
190 kms of road Q 4% cost                       7
Subtotal                   125          3.6   (60%)
Total                 1,508          35,6
C.  Unallocated Amount (rounding-off)                 -o
Total Amount of Loan . . . . .     $36.0 million
Source Consulting Engineers and Projects Department



THAILAND
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
A. Actual and Assumed Annual Rates of Growth of lotor Vehicles (%)
1959-1964              1965-1970              1970-1975              1975-1980
Type of Vehicle        Type of Vehicle        Type of Vehicle        Type of Vehicle
Light     Heavy        LLght     Heavy        LIght     He           Light     eay
Bangkok               12         9           12         7           11         5           10         4
Rest of Country       12        19           12        16           14        11           12         7
Total           14                    10                      10                      8
B   Vehicle Population and Forecasts (in 000)
1964                   1970                   1975                   1980
Type of Vehicle        Type of Vehicle        Type of Vehicle        Type of Vehicle
Light Heavv Total      Light Heavy  Total     Light Heavy Total      Light Heav3  Total
Bangkok              59    25     84       105    30    135       175    40    215       280    50    330
Rest of Country      15    70     85        25   135    160        60   225    285       105   320    425
Total     74    95    169       130   165    295       235   265    500       385   370    755
Source   Projects Department



TIBLE 7
THAILAND
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs in Flat Country
for Inter-urban Roads
(in US¢ per Km Net of Taxes)
A. Average Passenger Car
Type of Road
Good            Average          Average
Paved            Gravel            Earth
Gasoline                     o.46              o.49             o.54
Oil                          0.12              0.24             0.24
Tires                        0.13              0.30             0.48
Spare parts                  0.17              0.25             0.35
Maintenance labor            0,08              0.12             0.17
Depreciation                 0.72              0.86             1.20
Interest  1/                 0.h8              0.60             0.74
Total                   2.16              2.86             3 72
In index numbers        100               132              172
B.  Eight-ton truck
Diesel                       1.1              14               1.6
011                          0.5               0.7              1.0
Tires                        1.2               1.7              3.7
Spare parts                  1.2               1.8              2.9
Maintenance labor            0.5               0.8              1,9
Depreciation                 2.0               2.6              3.7
Interest  1/                 0.7               0.8              0.9
Drivers' wages  1/           1.0               1.2              1.5
Overheads  1/                0.2               0.2              0.3
Total                   8.4              11.2             17.5
In index numbers        100              134              208
I/ Costs related to time.
Source: Consultants/Projects Department



TABLE 8
THAILAND
SECOND HIGIAY PROJECT
Traffic Forecasts for Project Roads -
Road Sections             Length   1965      1970       1975       1980
(Km)  (Actual)
1. Bangkok-Siracha               95
a) Bangkok - Km 6              6    9,550    15,500     23,8002/   23,800
3/
b) Km 6 - Cholburi            45    6,600    11,750-    11,750     11,750
c) Cholburi - Siracha         44    6,200    10,400     15,700     23,100
2. Nakorn Sawan-Chiengrai       605
a) Nakorn Sawan-Klong Klung   77      900     1,800      3,100      4,300
b) Knong Klung - Tak4        104      375       950      1,600      2,200
c) Tak - Thern                90      250       500        700        950
*d) Thern-Lampang-- -         100      125      (350)      (500)      (650)
6/
*e) Lanpang - Ngao-            87      275      (400)      (600)      (850)
f) Ngao - Chiengrai-/        147      450     1,100      1,600      2,100
'4/
3. Udorn-Sakolnal-orrr-         160      300       750      1,250      1,800
4. Khonkaen-Chumphae             95      500     1,100      2,000      2,900
1/ giv7n as "Average Daily Traffic" (ADT) throughout the year
2/ practical capacity of proposed road is reached in 1975
3/ practical capacity of proposed road is reached in 1970
i includes generated traffic
i/ includes generated and diverted traffic
/ rough forecasts only, since impact of new road, Chiengmai-Lampang not
considered.
*- included in the project for further study, but not for construction
Source Projects Department



TABLE 9
THAILAND
SECO\D HIGHWAY PROJECT
Rate of Return Summary
For Individual Roads and Sections
Cost in     Rate of
Leneth    Standards   $ million  Return in
1. Bangkok-Siracha                   95        Various      29.9         31
a) Bangkok - Km 6                  6        4 lane        h.1         23
b) Km 6 - Cholburi                45        P()          1L.9         29
c) Cholburl - Siracha             44        4 lane       11.9         36
2. Nakorn Sawan - Chlengrai         418        Various      30.3         21
a) Nakorn Sawan-Klong Klung       77        P(1)          6.2         17
b) Klong Klung - Tak             104        P(2)          8.2         21
c) Tak - Thern                    90        P(2)          6.2         11
d) Ngao - Chiengral              147        P(2)          9.7         25
3. Udorn-Sakolnakorn                160        P(2)         11.9         18
4. Khcnkagn-Chtmphae                 95        P(2)          7.4         23
Totals                  768                     79.5         25
(average)
17 see Tables 3 and 4
2/ including right-of-way, engineering and supervision, construction and
contingencies.
Source   Projects Department



Fq
ChengmO  N  No             L               4,
/% Opoo ,,  L4   (,  
Sokhomo  i kl g        ongk
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 7 S   le )e  0.  N
Nkotho n l Sowo                     [
Petc5~    rohO   1C      A oB  0 D Ud
kc                        s  o y 
Kcmpoe gpet ) \ l Ch mphil; 9  Kho keen  /
CD            5w         gcho,hp     cphcsa akom ( 
w~ ~~~~~NTOA HIHA SYSTEM
- P  m  y  e  o m T h  POPOCO
) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CNho yoI oo.s
o0                             r YQlb  No 00S0_ 001  0 g s5o
1. kG  R
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c |k Polo  
l,  Ch mpo nwf                     cst Noko 
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 25 50 75 rO
roc o       C A _ _ _ _ _D_I
B |o 0o      THAILAND
2Roog           NATIONALHIGHWAA L AYA
EB A rY 19k6                                    l O  1082 ____pGmiy  d  o t o o popoed
Ch m     I noq  hmC           e 
- \ ~~~~0        \           td   egPOvTHIA
a ue   N golln                 os  tl  d NAIOA   HIGWA   SECOND
O~~~~~~~~~~EITN      NATIonAklo  EAIGHWAYS
T k~~ P                           .oo yL  dN  t p~ o adh o
_   )n  kC °h   al   Sec 75dOK
0  B toJ          °  25  50OJE7T ROAD
Th~~~~~~ MAAY m              o   r  dier   IS
FEERUARY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~td 196    ISR  108 eR12 JC



