RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                      Report No.  P-484
'This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 1, 1966



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEV7,LOPMENT
REPORT AND RECONiIENDATIONS OF THE FRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIV)E DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KIiNGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A SECOND NATIONAL HIGHW.AY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a
proposed loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
$36 million to the Kingdom of Thailand for a Second Highway Project.
PART I - BACKGROUND
2.        In June, 1963, the Bank made a loan of $35 million to
Thailand (Loan 341-TH) for a Highway  Project.   The loan was reduced
in 1964, at the Government's request, to `25 million because,
subsequent to the appraisal of the project, work was done on some of
the project roads by the Highway Department, thus postponing the
need for the major works by contract envisaged in the original
project.   After a slow start, due to delay in appointing consultants,
progress on the first project is now satisfactory, and all construction
contracts have been awarded.   The project is expected to be completed
on schedule towards the end of 1967.
3.        Consulting engineering services provided under the first
loan to prepare the way for further projects included the preparation
of feasibility studies and final engineering for a substantial part
of the proposed project, and also provided assistance in the
re-organization of the Highway Department and the training of Thai
technical personnel.
4.        An investment of $h00 million is envisaged during the period
of Thailandts Second Development Plan, 1965-1971, for the construction
of 4,500 kms. of new roads and the paving of over 3,100 kms. of
existing roads, which will almost double the present road capacity.
Highway construction has not kept pace with other development, and
the Government is placing special emphasis on highway construction
and improvement in its economic development program.    The proposed
second highway project is an integral part of the development
program.   The Government is planning to seek external assistance
in financing further phases of the program at a later stage.
5.        The proposed loan was negotiated by a delegation headed
by H.E. Sukich Nimmanheminda, the Thai Ambassador in Washington, and
Mr. Nukul Prachuabmoh, Deputy Director General of the Department of
Highways.   Negotiations were completed on May 23, 1966.
6.        If the proposed loan is approved, it will be the fifteenth
Bank loan to Thailand.   Of these, five have been fully disbursed.
The following is a summary statement of Bank loans to Thailand as
at April 30, 1966.



-2-
Year
of         Borrower               Purpose          Principal  Undisbursed
Loan                                                 Amount
1950   Kingdom of Thailand Railway Rehabilitation   $   3.0
Kingdom of Tlailand  Port Improvement            4.4
Kingdom of Thailand  Irrigation                 16.0
1955   State Railways       Railway Rehabilitation     12.0
1956   Port Authority       Port Improvement             3.3
1957   Yanhee Electricity   Multi-purpose               66.o        0.2
Authority
1961   State Railways       Railway Rehabilitation      14.6        4.1
1962   Kingdom of Thailand  Petchburi Irrigation        3.4         o.8
Kingdom of Thailand  Third Chao Phya              5.6        1.0
Irrigation
1963   Yanhee Electricity   Power-                      6.6         0.3
Authority
Kingdom of Thailand  National Highways          25.0        21.0
1964   Industrial Finance   Industry                     2.5        1.8
Corporation of
Thailand
Kingdom of Thailand Mekiong Irrigation          22.0        19.1
1965   Yanhee Electricity   Power                       6.o         5.3
Authority
Total (less cancellations):                         $ 192.4
of which has been repaid:                           34.5
Total now outstanding:                                 157-9
Amount sold:                     $12.2
of which has been repaid:       7.1                  5.1
Total now held by the Bank:                         $ 152.8
Total undisbursed:                                               $ 53.6
No IDA credits have been made to Thailand
7.     Progress under Bank-financed projects in Thailand has generally
been satisfactory.   Complicated procurement procedures caused some
delay in making disbursements from the 1961 Railway Loan (280-TH), but
arrangements havre now been made which are expected to commit the
balance of the available funds.   The Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT) has been slow to submit projects for financing under
Loan 370-TH signed in March 1964.   IFCT has experienced some
organizational and management difficulties which are now-being resolved.



-3-
The following proJects are now under conside:ration, aid are
expected to be presented to the Executive Directors by the end of
September:
a)  Vocational Education  -      $ 6 millicn
b)  Nan River Project     - about$25 million
c)  Telecommunications    -      $20 million
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED LOAN
9.       The main characteristics of the proposed loan are as follows:
Borrower:              Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:                The equivalent in various currencies
of ;$36 million.
Purpose:               To assist in financing the improvement
and construction of four national
primary highways, the preparation of
feasibility studies and engineering
for additional highway sections and the
services of consulting engineers.
Amortization:          24 years including 4 years of grace;
semi-annual instalments from October 15, 1970
to October 15, 1990.
Interest:              6% per annum.
Conmitment Charges:    3/8 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PFDJECT
10.      A detailed appraisal of the project (TO-531 (a)) is attached
(No. 1).
11.      The Government's second Five-Year Development Plan makes
provision for very substantial infrastructure investments to facilitate
the growth of the national product, which is assumed to average about
7% p.a. between 1967-1971.   Agricultural,'production is likely to grow
at a somewhat slower pace, while manufacturing, mining and transport
are expected to grow at rates close to 10%.   The project is part of
a comprehensive program of highway improvements included in the Plan
and includes the improvement and construction of sections of four
national primary highways totalling about 770 kms; the review of
existing engineering designs and the supervision of construction and



improvement works on the project roads; and the preparation of
feasilTility studies and the revision of engineering for about 190 kms.
of road.
12.      As the result of ftrther economic development, the annual
increase in the vehicles using the roads, which has averaged 14% in
recent years, is expected to continue.   In assessing the economic
benefits from the project, it has been assumed corBervatively that
traffic will grow at somewhat lower rates than in recent years,
without taking into account the recent increase in military traffic.
In addition to normal traffic growth, the road improvements are
expected to generate new traffic in areas of economic potential.
The most important economic benefits resulting from the project will
be a reduction in transport costs and a saving in highway maintenance
costs.   It is estimated that the average rate of return for the
whole project will be about 25%.
13.      The project will be administered by the Department of Highways
of the Ministry of National Development, which is responsible for the
construction, improvement and maintenance of all classes of national
roads in the country.   The Department is being reorganized in
accordance with recommendations of consultants retained under a U.S.
AID grant and implemented with assistance of consultants employed
under the first Bank loan.   Construction studies and designs for the
project roads have already been made by consultants but some checking
and minor revision of designs are necessary on the Nakhon Sawan-Chiengrai
Highway.   Consultants will undertake a feasibility study to determine
the appropriate design standards, and then prepare final engineering
for the section #f this road between Thern and Ngao, and will also
supervise the construction of the project roads.
14.      Unit price contracts for construction work will be placed on
the basis of international competitive bidding.   A contract amounting
to $3.4 million was awarded in December 1965 for the first section
of the Bangkok-Sriracha HiCjhway.  In placing this contract the
Department of Highways followed the Bank's prescribed procedures and
it is proposed that this road section should be included in the project
financed by the proposed loan.
15.      The estimated cost of the project is $72.5 million.    The
proposed loan would finance the foreigi currency costs of road
construction and improvement, estimated at about 48% of the costs of
this work, which, including a 15 allowance for contingencies, are
expected to amount to 832 million.   The balance of the loan would
meet the full foreign currencyr costs of employing consultants engaged
on the project.   The balance of the funds needed to complete the
project would be provided by the Government.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUIPNTS AND AUTHORITY
16.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Kingdom of
Thailand and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to



-5-
the Executive Directors separately.    The Loan Agreement conforms
substantially to the usual pattern for projects of this kind.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
17.      An economic report on the situation of Thailand (FE-53b) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 25, 1966.     A brief
resume of the report is given in the following paragraphs.
18.      The Thai economy has established an impressive record of
economic growth.    In the early 1960's real output rose by 7.5% a
year.   Rapidly rising exports and domestic savings ena;led the economy
to support a steep increase in investment, from under 16% of gross
domestic product in 1957 to 22% in 1965, while the resource gap went
up only marginally.    This is a remarkable achievement for a country
which, despite fast growth, is still relatively poor, with an average
per capita income of $120.    In general, the policies of the Thai
Government were well suited to the reeds of the economy as they were
directed towards encouraging private activity.     Proper management of
fiscal affairs and monetary policy maintained overall financial stability,
encouraged growth of exports, and attracted an increasing flow of
foreign private capital.    Public outlays were raised substantially in
recent years and on the whole were directed effectively towards meeting
urgent economic and social needs.
19.      The five years 1967-1971 covered by Thailand's Second Plan
are expected to be a period of continuing economic growth, though the pace is
likely to be somewhat slower than in the recent past.     Growth in real
income is likely to be around 6.5 - 7% a year which would permit
further substantial increases in income per head.     As in the past,
investment will probably increase more rapidly than gross domestic
product.   Given the slower growth of exports and domestic savings
that is expected, Thailand's dependence on foreign capital inflows,
particularly from official sources, is likely to increase somewhat.
Thailand's performance and the prospect of increasing investment along
satisfactory lines would justify such an increase.     The additional
borrowing abroad by the public sector, which would seem necessary to
meet the prospective capitalinflow requirements, would raise no question
of creditworthiness.
PART VI - COI4PLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREE4ENT
20.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 6 -
PART VII - RECON1MIDATION
21.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Kingdom of Thailand (Second Highway Project)
in the amount of the equivalent of U.Sc $36 -ri1llion
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Kirg dom of Thailand
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million
United States dollars (U.S. $36,QCO,O0)1. to mature on and prior to
October 15, 1990, to bear interest at the rate of six per cent (6%)
per annum, and to be upon such other ter;.s and conditions as shall be
substantially in accordance with the termas and conditions set forth
in the form of Loan Agreement (Second Highway Project) between the
Kingdom of Thailand and the Bank, which has been presented to this
meeting.
Washington, D.C.                                    George D. Woods
.!Junu 1, 1966                                        President



