Report No. 979a-CM
Appraisal of a Third Education
Project in Cameroon
April 2,1976
Projects Department                                            F            COPY
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US $ 1.00      CFAF 225
OFAF 1,000 = US $ 4.44
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
meter (m) = 3.28 ft
square meter (m2) = 107.6 sq ft
hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
June 30 - July 1



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............       ... .,         i - iv
I.   INTRODUCTION      . .....................                    1
II.   THE SETTING  .....................        .........          2
A.   Socio-Economic Background                              2
B.   Rural Development      .     ...............           3
C.   The Education System              .     ......         4
Technical Education  ............ge              5
Agricultural Education       .......             6
Health Education         ......                  9
D. Role of the Project               . ..9
III.   THE PROJECT.                .    ..... ..  *                10
A.   General.................                               10
B.   Components of the Project  .............1.            il
C.   Cost of the Project .. .... * ....                    16
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION        ......      ...................  ....   19
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .......             21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Cameroon in February/March 1974. The mission consisted of
Messrs. E. Sawaya (economist and mission leader), J. Crosnier
(agricultural, health and veterinary education specialist), G.
Hadjicostas (civil engineer) and M. Furst (extension specialist),
all of the Bank; G. Motel (technical educator) of ILO; R. Schreyer
(communications specialist) of Unesco; and M. Tournier (agronomist-
consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Existing Institutions of Agricultural Education
3.  Agricultural and Livestock Manpower Requirements
4. Technical Assistance Implementation Schedule
5. Enrollments of Agricultural Education Institutions
Financed Under the Project
6.  Summary of Estimated Costs
7.  Summary of Capital Expenditures
8. Price Escalation Assumpticris
9. Contingency Allowances
10. Allocation of Financing by Category of Expenditure
11.  Implementation Schedule - Building Works, Furniture, Equipment
12. Schedule of Disbursements
13. Disbursements by Major Category of Expenditure of the
IBRD Financing
MAP    IBRD - 11920



GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BEPC: Brevet Elementaire du Premièr       Lower Secondary School Certificate
Cycle
CUSS: Centre Universitaire  des          University Center for Health Sciences;
Sciences de la Santé            one of the faculties of the University
of Yaoundé for training medical and
paramedical personnel.
ENSA: Ecole NationaleSupérieure           Higher School of Agriculture; one of
Agroncmique                     the faculties of the University of
Yaoundé for training agricultural
personnel.
ITA:  Institut des Techniques             A new institution for the training of higher
Agricoles                       agricultural and livestock technicians to be
newly established at ENSA under the
proposed project.
MOA: Ministry of Agriculture              The Government Ministry responsible
for agricultural and rural development
and for secondary agricultural education
and training.
MOE: Ministry of Education                The main Government Ministry responsible
for education.
MOL: Ministry of Livestock                The Government Ministry responsible
for animal health and production, and for
secondary education in animal health
and husbandry.
SODECAO: Société de Développement         A para-statal agency responsible for
du Cacao                        the development of cocoa production.
SODECOTON: Société de Développement       A para-statal agency responsible for
du Co-bon                       the development of cotton production.
UDEAC:  Union Douanière des Etats de    Central African Economic and Customs Union,
l'Afrique Centrale               grouping Cameroon, Gabon, Central African
Republic and People's Republic of the Congo.






CAMEROON - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
General
Area                                                     475,000 km2
Population (1974 est.)                                   6,350,000 persons
Density                                      13.4 persons/km2
Rate of growth                               2.1% p.a.
rural                                        76%
urban                                        24%
Exchange Rate
as of April 4h  1975                         US$l = CFAF 210
For cost estimation                          US$1 = CFAF 225
Economy (1973/74 provisional estimates)
GDP                                                      CFAF 414 billion
GDP per Capita                                           CFAF 65,000, or
about US$ 300
GDP Growth (real terms)
1964/65 - 1971/72                                    5.1% p.a.
1971/72 - 1973/74                                    1.6% p.a.
GDP Distribution by Sector
Primary                                              36%
Secondary                                           19%
Tertiary                                             45%
Numnb er
Wage Employment (1970/71)               cf Persons      Percentage
Private Sector                         118 330          66.7%
Primary                             ( 1,6)          (23.3%)
Secondary                           (34,250)        (19.3%)
Tertiary                            (42,720)        (24.1%)
Public Sector                           59,o80          33.3%
Total                        177,410         100.0%



Education
Enrollments and Teachers (1972/73)
Total
Enroll-   of which  of which  Total of   of which
Level and Type       ment        Females   Private  Teachers  Expatriates
Prirnary                   967,600      43.6%      47.1%   19,813        1.3%
Secondary General           72,500      29.1%       63.3%    2,988      30.5%
Secondary Technical         22,600      36.6%       81.6%    1,017      25.2%
Secondary    other           2,000      23.3%       68.o%      201      22.4%
Higher                       4,500      12.0%           -     n.a.       n.a.
Education Finance (1971/72)
Total Expenditure on Education                                CFAF  19.3 billion
as % of GNP                                                     5.9%
Tota1 Current Expenditures on Education                      CFAF  16.0 billion
as % of Total Expenditures on Education                        82.9%



CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a Third Education Project in Cameroon, for
which a Third Window Loan of US$17.0 million is proposed.
ii.       IDA has assisted education in Cameroon through two projects.  The
First Education Project (Credit 161-CM, signed in September 1969) provided
US$10.5 million, and the Second Education Project (Credit 320-CM, signed in
June 1972) provided US$9.0 million. These projects aimed to improve and ex-
pand primary and secondary teacher training, general secondary education, and
technical education and vocational training. Implementation of the First
Education Project is about 30 months behind the appraisal schedule and has
experienced cost overruns for which IDA has provided supplementary financing
(US$1.2 million) to cover the impact of US dollar devaluation. The Second
Education Project is about two years behind schedule but is now proceeding
satisfactorily. It is also experiencing cost overruns due to implementation
delays, inflation and the US dollar devaluation; consequently, a lower second-
ary technical school in Douala cannot be financed under this project.
iii.      The proposed Third Education Project is based upon pre-investment
studies financed under the Second Education Project. Identification was
carried out by IDA with the assistance of FAO. The latter completed project
preparation in November 1974, and appraisal was undertaken by a Bank mission in
February/March 1975.
iv.       The proposed project would be implemented over the five-year period
1976-1980 and would comprise:
(a)  Construction, equipment, furniture and, for item (ii) only,
technical assistance for:
(i) a lower secondary technical school in Douala, including a
training section for lower secondary workshop teachers; and
(ii) a lower secondary technical school in Ngaoundéré.
(b)  Technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of
Agriculture to develop programs of agricultural education and to
supervise their implementation.
(c)  Construction, equipment, furniture and technical assistance for:
(i) expanding and improving two existing lower secondary
agricultural schools in Ebolowa and Maroua, and for a
new lower secondary agricultural school in Bambili;



- il -
(ii)  expanding and improving  the upper secondary agri-
cultural school in Bambili, and for two new similar
schools in Ebolowa and Maroua (same sites as for
item (i) above); and
(iii) establishing a program for training higher technicians
in agriculture and livestock.
(d) Construction, furniture and equipment for improving the rural
health training program of the University Center for Health
Sciences ("Centre Universit:aires des Sciences de la Sante" -
CUSS).
(e) Technical assistance for:
(i)  pre-investment studies; and preliminary design work for
a further education project; and
(ii)  project implementation - a procurement specialist, an
architect and a civil engineer.
v.         The proposed Third Educaticn Project would assist the Government
in continuing its efforts to develop the country's technical education system
and in achieving the objectives of the Second Education Project financed by
IDA. Specifically, the project would assist technical education by:
(a) financing the lower secondary technical school in Douala,
originally included in the Second Education Project;
and
(b) financing a new lower secondary technical school at Ngaoundéré
to train skilled workers.
vi.        The proposed project would also make agricultural and health educa-
tion a more effective tool for agricultural and rural development through
appropriately designed programs in new or expanded institutions.  A reformed
system of agricultural education would supply the qualified manpower that
would introduce improved agricultural methods and change attitudes towards
agriculture. Specifically, the projezt would assist in:
(a) improving the management of agricultural education;
(b) increasing the efficiency of the system and reducing its unit costs;
(c) regionalizing the training in agricultural institutions to
cater for the agri-ecological regions of Cameroon;
(d) upgrading the extension services by increasing the number of
trained agents and improving the training of all extension
personnel;
(e)  laying the basis for a rura:  information system;



- iii -
(f) filling a gap in the agricultural manpower structure by
starting a new program for training higher technicians;
(g) supporting rural health training; and
(h) coordinating agricultural programs and curricula.
vii.      The Ministry of Education would be responsible for supervising the
execution of the lower secondary technical schools, the rural health training
program of CUSS and the higher technician training institute at ENSA. The
ltinistry of Agriculture would be responsible for the lower secondary agricul-
tural schools, the upper secondary agricultural schools and the pre-investment
study on the rural information system. The day-to-day supervision of construc-
tion, procurement and loan administration of the proposed Third Education
Project would be the responsibility of the Project Implementation Unit estab-
lished in the Ministry of Education for the First and Second Education Projects.
In addition to the reinforcement described in paragraph iv(c)(ii), this Unit
would be supported by designated representatives from each of the Ministries
concerned with the project. The staff member designated by the Ministry of
Agriculture would be on a full-time basis. The Director of the Project Unit
would be responsible for: (a) coordination with the Government Ministries and
agencies involved; (b) supervision of project implementation; (c) liaison with
the Bank; and (d) collection and preparation of data necessary for a project
completion report.
viii.     The total cost of the project, net of taxes and customs duties,
is estimated at about CFAF 5.6 billion, or US$24.9 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$17.0 million equivalent, or about 68% of the total.
The cost estimates are based on recent work undertaken by both the public and
private sectors, including a detailed analysis of the actual costs of the
First Education Project and the bid results for some of the institutions of
the Second Education Project. The estimates also take into consideration
information supplied by the Ministry of Public Works and its regional services.
The project cost includes an allowance of 10% for physical contingencies for
all categories of expenditure.  The allowance for both local and foreign price
escalation is based on the estimated project cost as of March 30, 1976, and
amounts to about 31% of the base-cost estimate plus physical contingencies.
Yaounde was taken as a reference point and appropriate local cost adjustment
factors have been applied, depending upon the locations of the project insti-
tutions. These unit costs compare favorably with those in neighboring coun-
tries. Site development has been estimated at about 10% of the cost of civil
works, and furniture between 4% and 14%, depending upon the type of institu-
tion and facility. The distribution of cost by category is as follows: civil
works, 49%; furniture, 3%; equipment, 23%; consulting architects, 3%; and other
professional services, 22%.



- iv -
ix.       The total cost of the project (US$24.9 million), net of taxes and
customs duties, would be financed by the proposed Third Window Loan of
US$17.0 million and by Government. This Loan would cover 100% of the for-
eign exchange expenditures, which amount to 68% of the project cost.
x.        Procurement.  Contracts for building works (US$12.1 million),
furniture (US$0.7 million) and equipment (US$5.8 million) would be awarded
following international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. The building works are within the capacity of Cameroon's con-
struction industry. Local contractors would be given a domestic preference
of 7-1/2% in bid evaluation. Furniture and equipment manufactured in
Cameroon and in countries which are a party to the Union Douanière des Etats
de l'Afrique Centrale (UDEAC) would be allowed a preference equal to the lower
of (a) 15% of the c.i.f. price on imported goods, or (b) the prevailing duties
generally applied to non-exempt imports. Items which are not suitable for
international competitive bidding or cannot be grouped in packages of at least
US$20,000 would be procured on the basis of quotations according to local
procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. The total of all such purchases
should not exceed US$300,000 over the duration of the project.
xi.       The funds from the Loan Account would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 100% of the foreign expenditures (c.i.f. costs) for imported
equipment and materials, or 75% if these are purchased locally;
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditures (c.i.f.costs) for imported
furniture, or 75% if this is purchased locally;
(c) 60% of the total expenditures for architectural consultants;
(d) 75% of total expenditures for technical assistance and fellowships;
and
(e) 57% of the costs, representing the foreign exchange component,
of civil works.
US$2.6 million of the Loan would be unallocated. Disbursements would be made
against contracts or certificates of expenditure; documentation for the latter
would not be submitted for review, bu: would be retained by the Government and
would be available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project
supervision. Any funds remaining undisbursed at the completion of the project
would be cancelled. Construction is expected to be completed in about three
years after the signing of the Loan Agreement.
xii.      The proposed project forms a suitable basis for a Third Window Loan of
US$17.0 million, for a period of 25 years, including a seven-year grace period.



CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      IDA has assisted the development of education in Cameroon through
two projects. The First Education Project (Credit 161-CM, signed in September
1969) provided US$10.5 million, mainly for expanding and improving primary
and secondary teacher training and general secondary education. This project
is about 30 months behind the appraisal schedule because of delays in project
start-up, site selection and construction. The project is, however, nearing
completion and most of the institutions have admitted students for their first
courses. IDA provided supplementary financing (US$1.2 million) for this pro-
ject to cover a cost overrun caused by the US dollar devaluation.
1.02      The Second Education Project (Credit 320-CM, signed in June 1972)
provided US$9.0 million to assist the Government in: reforming the curri-
culum of primary education; developing primary and secondary teacher training;
undertaking a pre-investment study of agricultural education and training;
and developing technical education. The project's main thrust is on invest-
ments and curriculum reform for technical education. It also lays the basis
for technical education in Northern Cameroon.
1.03      Implementation of the Second Education Project, which was delayed
by about two years because of hold-ups in selecting architects and agreeing
on designs, is now proceeding satisfactorily. This project has, however
also encountered cost overruns of about 60% (US$7.2 million),attributable
to the US dollar devaluation (US$2.2 million) and a higher rate of price
increase (48%) than was foreseen at appraisal (20%), the impact of which has
been compounded by the implementation delays. As a consequence, the lower
secondary technical school in Douala cannot be financed under this project.
1.04      The Third Education Project comprises this technical education
item, a new lower secondary technical school, training schools for agricul-
tural and animal health and production staff (based on studies financed under
Credit 320-CM), a rural health training program, and pre-investment studies.
Project identification was undertaken by IDA with the assistance of FAO, which
completed preparation of the project's agricultural components in November
1974.
1.05      The project was appraised in February/March 1975 by a mission
composed of Messrs. E. Sawaya (economist and mission leader), J. Crosnier
(agricultural, health and veterinary education specialist), G. Hadjicostas
(civil engineer) and M. Furst (extension specialist), all of the Bank;
G. Motel (technical educator) of ILO; R. Schreyer (communications specia-
list) of Unesco; and H. Tournier (agronomist - consultant).



- 2 -
II.  T_E SETTING
A. Socio-Economic Background
2.01      Cameroon became a united republic in 1972, following the union be-
tween, the two federal states of East and West Cameroon. The country is divided
into seven provinces, and these in turn are subdivided into departments, dis-
tricts, sub-districts and finally villages.  This structure is reflected in
and affects the organization of the regional administrations of such Ministries
as Agriculture and Education.  Ecologically, the country's area of about
475,000 km2 comprises five major zones:  the plains of the northern savannah,
the central savannah, the western highlands, the western coastline and plains,
and the southern tropical forests. These zones give Cameroon a diversified
agricultural economy that provides 60% of its total exports and a livelihood
for 76% of the population.
2.02      Cameroon's ethnically and culturally diverse population, estimated
to total 6.4 million (Annex 1) is growing at about 2.1% annually. Children
below 15 years of age account for about 40% of the population, while those
between 6 and 13, an important school-age group, account for about 20%; this
is a typical situation in West Africa. The distribution of population over
the country averages about 13 inhabitants per km2, but there are wide varia-
tions, ranging from about 2 inhabitants per km2 in some parts of the Eastern
Province to 70 inhabitants per km2 in the Western Province. Urban areas ac-
count for about 24% of the population and are experiencing an annual growth
of 6%, more than three times the national average. The Government hopes to
slow down the urban drift of the population through development in the rural
areas; even so, the urban population probably will account for about 40% of
the total population by 1990.
2.03      Total salaried employment in the modern sector is about 180,000, of
which 67% is in the private sector. Duiring the Third Five-Year Plan period
(1971/72-1975/76), modern sector employment was expected to increase by about
50,000 or by 5.0% p.a., which is far 11ss than the rate necessary to employ
the secondary school graduates entering the labor market. As a consequence,
many school leavers have had to seek self-employment. The Government plans
to encourage this by providing support services in the rural areas, where
more opportunities for self-employment are available.
2.04      During 1971/72-1973/74, annual GDP growth averaged 1.6%, a sub-
stantially lower rate than the 5% achiteved in the late 1960s. A stagnation
in agricultural output and lower prices for coffee and cocoa were the main
causes of this decline. Except for thes few plantations, small- and medium-
size mixed farms produce most of the agricultural output, which accounts for
about 36% of GDP. In general, the farming techniques are traditional, with
only about 10% of all farmers having rtsgular access to the support services
necessary for modernizing their production methods. The most important cash
crops are rubber and oil palm on the pLantations, and cocoa, coffee and cotton
on the small mixed farms. Food crops range from vegetables typical of hot, dry
climates to fruit and root crops of humid tropical ecologies. Cattle, found



mostly in the central and northern plains and numbering over three million head,
are a large but as yet underutilized resource. Thus, through the diversity of
its agricultural economy, Cameroon is largely self-sufficient in food.
2.05      Major objectives of the Government's Third Plan are the achievement
of balanced regional and sectoral development in an effort to improve rural
living conditions. These are leading to increased investments in rural areas
in general, and particularly in Northern Cameroon, an area lacking infrastruc-
ture and services. The Fourth Five-Year Plan (1976/77-1980/81), which is
now under preparation, is expected to retain these objectives. As a result,
Cameroon will require more and better trained manpower to serve in rural areas,
especially in the previously neglected North.
B.   Rural Development
2.06      The Government has declared its intention to improve rural life.
To this end, the Government is encouraging agricultural development through:
(a) the promotion of cash crops on private farms by cash-crop development
agencies, notably SODECAO for cocoa and SODECOTON for cotton; (b) assistance to
other farmers and livestock owners through the thinly spread field services of
the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock; (c) the development of state-owned
plantations for oil palm and rubber production; (d) training centers for adult
and young farmers; and (e) rural information programs using the radio and rural
press. These and other programs are improving with implementation experience,
but their impact could be enhanced by better coordination.
2.07      As a step in achieving further improvements, the Government plans
to upgrade and expand its agricultural extension services. These are the
responsibility of one of the services of the Directorate of Agriculture and
Rural Development of the Ministry of Agriculture.  In each province and its
sub-divisions (para.2.01) this service has a "Poste Agricole" which is res-
ponsible for assisting farmers by disseminating improved agricultural prac-
tices. The Government plans to strengthen these units by: (a) phasing out or
upgrading about 1,000 extension agents who are now employed at level D in the
Cameroonian civil service and replacing them with better trained extension
agents, classified at the higher civil service level C; (b) increasing the
number of the "Poste Agricole" from about 330 at present to about 530 by 1990,
and (c) delegating more responsibilities for agricultural/rural development
schemes to field staff. A critical factor for the success of their plans is
the provision of supporting services such as credit and input supply and market-
ing.
2.08      Concurrently, the Government plans to strengthen the Ministry of
Livestock by increasing the number of its animal health and production agents.
This Ministry has a field service that is responsible for seven livestock
sectors and four "specific action zones" where special attention is given to
problems of particular regional importance. This service is understaffed;
there is only one veterinarian for every 60,000 head of cattle, which is a
very low ratio considering the potential for livestock in Cameroon (para
2.04). Animal production has been neglected and the Government is now proceed-
ing to correct this situation as quickly as possible.



2.09      The Ministry of Health has an innovative program to improve rural
health conditions by reducing the incidence of endemic diseases, through
the integration of preventive and curative health in demonstration zones
(DASP - "Zones de Demonstration d'Action en Santé Publique"). Seven zones
are functioning.
2.10      The ongoing programs and projects are placing heavy demands on the
the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock and Health because of the small num-
bers of their staff and because of inadequacies in their training. Moreover,
extension work is expected to become more demanding in the future as it shifts
from that of a single-crop farming advisory service to providing comprehensive
mixed farming services covering cash and food crops as well as livestock pro-
duction. This increased sophistication calls for upgrading the extension
service's present staff and improving the training of new staff.
2.11      The extension agent is expected to have an increasing role in
coordinating the Government's services to farmers. Therefore, in addition to
his concern for promoting production, he must be aware of the farmer's other
essential needs, such as credit, marketing, health, nutrition and literacy, and
know how to obtain the assistance of specialists in these areas. Thus, the
extension agent must have a higher level of competence and experience if he is
to fulfill this role. As a means to this end, the Government intends to reform
the extension training programs and to attract better quality personnel through
improved working conditions.
C. The Education System
2.12      The Ministry of National Education (MOE), as the governmental agency
primarily concerned with education., is responsible for all levels of general
and technical education and for alL higher education. Other Ministries, prin-
c:ipally Agriculture, Livestock and Telecommunications, are also involved in
education and training but mostly at the secondary level in fields related to
their activities.  This division of responsibility calls for close cooperation
in educational planning and management; the need for such cooperation is evi-
dent in agricultural education, on which the proposed project places its em-
phasis (paras. 2.19-2.25).
2.13      Since independence, the Government has concentrated on increasing
enrollments in primary education (from about 680,000 students in 1964 to
970,000 in 1972), and in general secondary education (from 25,600 to 73,000
in the same period). Nevertheless, educational opportunities remain restricted
and unequally distributed, particularly at the primary level. The Govern-
ment's second efforts have aimed at training the technicians and skilled wor-
kers needed to replace expatriates and to cater for the growing demands of
local industry. The training requirements of agriculture and rural communi-
ties have been neglected.



2.14      The Government's educational policy is changing as a result of:
(a) the emphasis its development plans are giving to balanced regional and
sectoral development; and (b) the high rate of unemployment among school gra-
duates that has been exacerbated by the migration of school leavers from
rural to urban areas. The changes in the Government's plans are reflected
in its desire to:
(i) increase enrollments in the less favored regions to
reduce the inequalities in educational opportunities,
starting with primary education;
(ii) improve the quality of general education, particularly
at the secondary level, by providing better trained
teachers and more suitable teaching materials;
(iii)  place greater emphasis on agricultural education and
training; and
(iv) expand technical and higher education.
2.15      These goals will have to be realized through greater efficiency of
the education and training system, as education already claims substantial
resources that cannot be increased appreciably. In 1971/72 the total educa-
tional expenditures amounted to CFAF 19.3 billion (US$85.8 million), or 5.9%
of GNP; the Government's share (including its subsidies to private educational
institutions) amounted to CFAF 11.8 billion (US$52.4 million), or about 20%
of its total expenditures. Total current expenditues accounted for about
CFAF 16.0 billion (US$71.1 million) or 83% of all education expenditures,
with the bulk for teachers' salaries. Current expenditures were mostly for
general education (52%), the University of Yaoundé  (18%), and technical
education (7%). Agricultural education accounted for only 2% of the total.
2.16      The scope for improvements in efficiency is less in primary education
than in secondary and higher education; the unit cost of primary education
(CFAF 6,000 or US$27) is low relative to that in other West African countries,
and the measures for expanding and improving it (para. 2.14(i) and (ii) will
lead to higher unit and total costs. The unit costs of secondary education
(CFAF 38,000 or US$169) and of higher education (CFAF 500,000 or US$2,200),
however, are high and could be reduced through such measures as reducing re-
peater and dropout rates.
Technical Education
2.17      The main characteristics of technical education in the early years
following independence were its inability to meet the country's need for trained
manpower, the low quality of training, and the structural differences caused by



- 6 -
tbhe different education systens that were inherited at independence in East
and West Cameroon. Starting in tthe late 1960's, the Government's effort to
resolve some of the problems of technical education was assisted by IDA's
First and Second Education Project:s (para. 1.02). This effort, which is not
completed yet, emphasizes the reform and adaptation of technical education
curricula, the improvement and expansion of several existing institutions for
training skilled workers and technicians, and the construction of new technical
schools.
2.18      A major issue for this subsector is the lack of a development plan
establishing training targets and standards based on an assessment of the
country's needs.  The MOE has at its disposal the necessary resources to
undertake this task which should be accorded high priority as an objective to
be pursued in future educational clevelopment. Until such a plan is developed,
new investments can be evaluated best against well-defined local needs. North
lCameroon is a case in point. This region's economy will be growing faster
,with the opening of the railway to Ngaoundéré, and the demand for technicians
and skilled workers is expected ta increase.  The ongoing Second Education
Project is assisting in meeting this region's need for technicians through the
czonstruction of a technical lycee at Garoua, and the proposed Third Education
Project would assist it by financing a school to train skilled workers (paras.
1.03 and 3.03-3.04). This region has a cumulative shortfall of about 300
skilled workers, mainly in mechan cal maintenance, diesel mechanics, metalwork
and electronics, and by 1980 it will require about 75 skilled workers annually.
Agricultural Education
2.19      The present system of agricultural education comprises the follow-
ing (Annex 2 gives details on the schools and their programs):
(a)  a university program at ENSA with an enrollment of 56 students
and 33 teachers, at a cost per student/year of CFAF 2.5 million
(about US$11,000);
(b)  two upper secondary agr cultural schools (Dschang and Bambili) with
an enrollment of 120 in the technician program and 15 teachers
at a cost per student/year of about CFAF 0.5 million (US$2,200);
(c) four lower secondary agricultural schools (Maroua, Ebolowa,
Bafang and Abong-Mbang) with an enrollment of 60 and 31 teachers,
at a cost per student/year ranging from CFAF 0.7 million to 0.8
million (US$3,100 - 3,600); and
(d) two veterinary training centers (Maroua and Jakiri) with an
enrollment of 40 in the assistant veterinarian and 5 in the
technician program and 7 teachers, at a cost per student/year
ranging from CFAF 0.5 million to 0.7 million (US$2,200 -
3,100).



-7-
2.20      The system suffers from four major problems:
(a) the inefficiency of the existing agricultural schools and
the lack of up-to-date training facilities and equipment;
(b)  poor planning and management;
(c)  a shortage of qualified agricultural teachers; and
(d)  inappropriate curricula.
The inefficiency of these training institutions is pointed up by their very
high unit costs, which are attributable to: the wide dispersion of the
schools; the student/teacher ratios that are far lower than those of similar
institutions in other countries; generous student allowances; and an un-
necessarily large number of daily workers on the school farms.
2.21      The problem of poor planning and direction is aggravated by the
divided responsibilities for agricultural education (para. 2.12). The MOE
through the "Ecole Nationale Supérieure Agronomique" (ENSA) is responsible
for university-level agricultural education. The "Direction des Programmes
et Etudes" of the Ministry of Livestock (MOL) is responsible for carrying out
secondary-level livestock education, and the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
for secondary agricultural education.  However, the responsibilities of MOL
and MOA are limited to the operational administration of the institutions
concerned and do not include curriculum development and diploma and certifi-
cate awards, tasks which have been given to the Division of Rural Pedagogy of
ENSA's Department of Agricultural Education and to MOE, respectively.
2.22      The shortage of qualified teachers for the training schools is a
major weakness of agricultural education in Cameroon. A permanent system for
training agricultural teachers has not yet been established, nor are the con-
ditions of work conducive to attracting the best candidates for this field.
Most of the practicing teachers have had no formal pedagogical training other
than short in-service seminars, and they have acquired whatever skills they
may have mainly through their teaching experience without gaining an in-depth
understanding of the socio-economic environment in which they will be teach-
ing. There is a need, therefore, to establish at ENSA an agricultural teacher
training course leading to a teaching certificate for students recruited
from among the staff of the Ministries and other agencies involved in agricul-
ture who are qualified and who have had several years of field experience.
2.23      The problem of inappropriate curricula cannot be resolved until ENSA
establishes a formal curriculum development process and expands the limited
efforts of its Division of Rural Pedagogy to develop agricultural education
curricula adapted to conditions in Cameroon. This Division has substantially
completed the revision and reform of the curricula for the lower secondary
agricultural schools,and is planning to do so for the upper secondary agri-
cultural schools and to develop new curricula for the higher agricultural



- 8 -
technician training program. The main needs are for: (i) emphasis on field
work through the "learn-by-doing" method; (ii) better coordination between
agricultural and livestock education; (iii) integration of the different
levels of training -- lower secondary, middle-level technician and new higher
technician; and (iv) use of the agricultural training institutions as rural
development and demonstration centers for the regions in which they are
loc ated.
2.24      The net result of the above is that agricultural education is not pro-
viding the staff required to carry out the Government's agricultural and rural
development programs (paras. 2.05-2.11).  These programs call for expanding
the ministries' operations to include more of the farmers and livestock owners
who are not being assisted at present and to increase the number of projects
by parastatal agencies. As a means of implementing these programs, the exten-
sion services would be expanded even though the extent of such expansion may
vary among operations and projects. On the basis of an evaluation of require-
ments during the next plan as well as reasonable assumptions about progress
until 1990, the net result would be an improvement in the overall ratio between
extension agents and farm families from the present level of about 1:1,500
to about 1:500. Estimates of Cameroon's total requirements for extension
agents and other staff trained in agriculture and in animal health and produc-
tion are detailed in Annex 3 and summarized as follows:
Total and Average Annual Requirements, 1975-1990
Agriculture             Livestock
Total  Annual         Total   Annual
University graduates                      370      25             75        5
fligher technicians                       550      40           135        10
Middle-level technicians                2,300    150            435        30
Extension agents                        2,400    160            360        25
These estimates take into consideration attrition on the employed staff as well
as the expansion requirements.
2.25      Recently, the Government has made important decisions concerning
agricultural education. These are summed up below.
(a) ENSA's university program:
-   to discontinue the practice of giving the students their
first two years at the Science Faculty of the University
of Yaoundé, and to start a completely separate program at
ENSA;
-   to extend the training from four to five years.



- 9 -
(b) Technician training programs:
-   to establish a new institute for a three-year autonomous
program at ENSA to train higher technicians for agriculture
and livestock;
-   to reorganize the training of middle-level technicians
at the upper secondary agricultural schools on a regional
basis.
(c) Lower secondary agricultural training to reorganize the
program on a regional basis.
(d) Lower and upper secondary livestock education to improve
the veterinary training centers in Maroua and Jakiri.
The decisions in (b) and (c) above seem to be steps in the right direction
and if properly implemented could result in more efficient and better adapted
education programs (para. 2.28). But the decisions in (a) above, particularly
the one which would add another year to the university program, are not desir-
able at Cameroon's present stage of agricultural and rural development, as an
extended university program would strengthen the graduates' research ability
rather than practical skills.
Health Education
2.26      The training of physicians, nurses and other health technicians is
conducted in Cameroon at the "Centre Universitaire des Science de la Santé"
(CUSS), one of the faculties of the University of Yaoundé. CUSS's approach
to medical and paramedical training has been very innovative when compared to
the rest of West Africa. The main innovative aspects are: (a) changing health
education from a largely urban orientation and placing greater emphasis upon
the roles of curative and preventive health care by paying greater attention
to the preventive aspects of health training; and (b) emphasing the need of
health personnel to work as members of an inter-disciplinary team rather than
as individuals. This training is a sound response to the Government's changing
policy of health care (para. 2.09) and is suitable for health conditions in
Cameroon.
D.   Role of the Project
2.27      The proposed Third Education Project would assist the Government in
continuing its effort to develop the country's technical education system and
to achieve the objectives of the Second Education Project financed by IDA.
Specifically, it would assist technical education by:
(a) financing the lower secondary technical school in Douala,
originally included in the Second Project (paras. 1.03 and
3.02);and



- Io -
(b) financing a new lower secorndary technical school at
Ngaoundere to train skillec workers (paras. 3.03-3.04).
2.28      The proposed project would also make agricultural and health educa-
tion a more effective and cost efficient tool (para. 2.20) for agricultural
and rural development through appropriately designed programs in new or ex-
pancded institutions and through imprevement in student/teacher ratios. A
reformed system of agricultural education would supply the qualified manpower
that would introduce improved agricultural methods and change attitudes towards
agriculture. An important element of the reform would be the adaptation of
training to the specific needs of the main agri-ecological regions of Cameroon.
Specifically, it would assist in:
(a)  improving the management of agricultural education (paras. 2.21
and 3.05);
(b)  increasing the system's efficiency and reducing its unit costs;
(c)  upgrading the extension services by increasing the number
of trained agents, improving the training of all agricultural
extension personnel (paras. 2.11 and 3.14), and laying the
basis for a rural information system (para. 3.17(b));
(d)  filling a gap in the agricultural manpower structure by
starting a new program for training higher technicians
(paras. 2.24 and 3.13-3.14);
(e)  supporting rural health training (paras. 2.09 and 3.15-3.16);
and
(f)  coordinating agricultural programs and curricula (para.
2.23).
III. THE PROJECT
A.   General
3.01      The proposed project would be implemented over the five-year
period 1976-1980 and would comprise:
(a) Construction, equipment, furniture and, for item (ii) only,
technical assistance for:
(i) a lower secondary technical school in Douala, including
a training section for lower secondary workshop teachers;
and
(ii) a lower secondary technical school in Ngaoundéré.



- il -
(b) Technical assistance to strengthen the MOA's capacity
to develop programs of agricultural education and to
supervise their implementation,
(c) Construction, equipment, furniture and and technical
assistance for:
(i) expanding and improving two existing lower secondary
agricultural schools in Ebolowa and Maroua, and for
a new lower secondary agricultural school in Bambili;
(ii) expanding and improving the upper secondary agricultural
school in Bambili, and for two new similar schools in
Ebolowa and Maroua (same sites as for item (i) above);
and
(iii) establishing a program for training higher technicians
in agriculture and livestock.
(d) Construction, equipment and furniture for improving the
rural health training program of the University Center for
Health Sciences ("Centre Universitaires des Sciences de la
Santé" - CUSS).
(e) Technical assistance for:
(i) pre-investment studies and preliminary design work
for a further education project; and
(ii) project implementation - a procurement specialist,
an architect and a civil engineer.
B.   Components of the Project
Lower Secondary Technical School, Douala
3.02      The project would finance the construction, furniture and equipment
for administrative, classroom and workshop buildings for a lower secondary
technical school in Douala (paras. 1.02-1.03 and 2.17). The school's total
enrollment would be about 750 students and its annual output about 250 skilled
workers. The school would also be provided with space and equipment for train-
ing about 40 workshop instructors under a program associated with the Ecole
Normal Superieure. It would adopt the new secondary curricula already agreed
upon with the Government under Credit 320-CM (Appraisal Report No. PE-46a:
paras. 3.09, 3.16-3.20 and 4.06-4.07). The courses would give greater empha-
sis to practical work than has been done in the past. Links with local
industry and business would be established through a governing board com-
prising representatives from the regional administration, local employers and
industry, and the school's staff. Completion of legal measures for estab-
lishing this board, with composition and powers acceptable to the Bank, would
be a condition of disbursement of Loan funds for this component.



- 12 -
Lower Secondary Technical School, Ngaoundéré
3.03      The project would finance the construction, furniture and equipment
for adminitrative, classroom and workshop buildings; a 120-place dormitory;
and f'our staff houses. This school wculd provide three-year training courses
in mechanical maintenance, diesel mechanics, metalwork and electromechanics.
The total enrollment would be about 210 students, comprising at least 50 stu-
dents for each course.  Recruitment wculd be mostly from students who have
completed primary education and from students who have not completed their
general lower secondary education. The annual output from the four courses
would be about 50 graduates. The schcol would employ 15 teachers and workshop
instructors. It would have a Cameroonian Director, who would be assisted by a
specialist qualified in administering a technical school. The specialist's
services would be financed under the project for three years.
3.04      The school buildings would be designed to facilitate revising the
training courses to keep pace with Northern Cameroon's development. The school
would also serve as a demonstration center for developing links between in-
dustry and technical education institutions of this type. Its training pro-
grams, including classroom, workshop and industrial in-service activities,
would be formulated and developed with the help of employers. Completion of
legal measures to establish a governing board for this school similar to
that of the lower secondary technical school in Douala (para. 3.02) would
be a condition of disbursement of Loan funds for this component.
Management of Agricultural Education
3.05      Because of the weaknesses of agricultural education management (para.
2.21), the project would finance 11.5 man-years of specialist services to assist
the MOA in planning and implementing agricultural education programs. The
specialist assistance would be provided under the project for agricultural
education planning, teaching methods, and media for agricultural education and
extension.  A condition of disbursement of Loan funds for this component would
be the implementation of measures, satisfactory to the Bank, necessary to
strengthen the MOA's capacity to develop and carry out the programs of agricul-
tural education proposed in this project. For the purpose of establishing
targets, standards and policies for the higher technician training program
(paras. 3.13-3.14), the upper secondary agricultural schools (paras. 3.11-3.12)
and the lower secondary agricultural schools (paras. 3.08-3.10), a National
Committee for Agricultural and Rural Education would be established. This
committee would include the representatives of the Ministries of Agricul-
ture, Education, Livestock and Planning as well as of ENSA and private sector
employers. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it will, by December 31, 1976, establish this committee with powers and
responsibilities acceptable to the Ban`k.
3.06      The specialists (para. 3.05 and Annex 4) would include:  (a) an
agriclultural education planner - 3 man-years; (b) a specialist in teaching
methods and agricultural teacher training - 3 man-years; (c) a specialist in



- 13 -
teaching materials for agricultural education and extension - 2.5 man-years;
and (d) a specialist in rural sociology - 3 man-years. They would assist
their counterparts in the implementation of the agricultural components of
this project and in planning the longer-term needs of agricultural education.
Also, the specialists listed in (b),(c) and (d) above would be seconded for
part of the time to ENSA's Division of Rural Pedagogy to work on the develop-
ment of:
(i) the curricula for the agricultural schools under the
project;
(ii)  the teaching materials for the project schools and the
extension services; and
(iii)  the curriculum for an agricultural teacher training
program, for which planning by ENSA is underway, and
the starting up of this training program.
3.07      Since a reliable source of well-trained teachers for the agricultural
schools to be financed under the project is essential for the success of these
institutions, assurances were obtained from the Government that, by December 31,
1977, it would:
(a)  make recommendations to the Bank for review and comment on how to
improve the conditions and incentives required to attract agri-
cultural teachers, and implement by December 31, 1978, the recom-
mendations agreed between the Government and the Bank; and
(b) complete legal measures acceptable to the Bank to establish the
teacher training program planned by ENSA.
Lower Secondary Agricultural Schools
3.08      The project would finance the construction, furniture and equip-
ment for administrative, classroom and dormitory buildings and 8 staff
houses to expand and improve training at the lower secondary agricultural
schools in Ebolowa and Maroua, and for a new school in Bambili. It would also
finance the development of the school farms and a total of 9 man-years of
technical assistance for the schools' directors. The total enrollment at the
lower secondary level would be raised under the project from about 40 at
present to 180 (Annex 5), with an annual intake of 90 students and an annual
output of 80. Students would be slected from: (a) successful primary school
leavers who have had two years of general secondary education, and (b) exten-
sion workers already employed in government agencies whose background and
abilities show that they can be trained for the new extension functions. The
graduates would be assigned, insofar as possible, to their regions of origin
and would be employed mostly by the Ministry of Agriculture and parastatal
agencies.



- 14 -
3.09      These schools, together with an existing school at Dschang, 1/ would
form a network of regional institutions with similiar training programs that
would teach extension workers the basic elements of most farming activities as
well as other related aspects of rural life. They would play an important
part in the Government's plans to upgrade the lowest level of extension
workers (para. 2.07). The program would be for two years and would include
periodical rotation between schools and field assignments to prepare the
trainees for the specific tasks they would be required to perform in the
course of their work.
3.10      Each school would be administered by a director assisted by a
specialist in agricultural school administration whose services would be
finarLced for three years under the project. The present teaching staff
would. be retained and new teachers would be trained in the new program es-
tablished at ENSA (paras. 2.22 and 3.06-3.07).
Upper Secondary Agricultural Schools
3.11      The project would finance:  the construction, furniture and equip-
ment for administrative, classroom and boarding facilities and 9 staff houses
for an existing school in Bambili, and for two new schools in Ebolowa and
Maroua. The expanded enrollment would be 240 (Annex 5). The students would be
recruited from: (a) students who have completed the BEPC or grade 9, and
(b) extension officers with basic training who have the ability to be upgraded.
The graduates would be employed mostly by the government agencies.
3.12      The program would be for three years and would include field assign-
ments. The students would spend two years at one of the upper secondary
agricultural schools and in the third year would rotate between the schools to
become familiar with and trained for working in different regions of Cameroon.
Their programs would be independent from those of the lower secondary agricul-
tural schools (paras. 3.08-3.10), but as the upper and lower secondary schools
would be on the same site, the students would use common facilities including
the school farm, laboratories, library, kitchen and dining room. This sharing
would help to foster, at the training stage, a spirit of cooperation and under-
standing among the students that is necessary for a successful working relation-
ship after graduation.  The upper secondary schools  would be managed by the
same directors as those of the lower secondary schools. The present teaching
staff would be retrained and new teachers trained at ENSA (paras. 2.22 and
3.06-3.07).
Higher Agricultural and Livestock Technician Training Institute
3.13      The project would finance the construction, furniture and equipment
for administrative, academic and dormitory buildings and 7 staff houses to
1/   This school is not included in the project because it already has
adequate facilities and equipment.



- 15 -
establish on the ENSA campus at Nkolbisson near Yaoundé a three-year post-
secondary Institute ("Institut des Techniques Agricole") for a new program
to train higher technicians in agriculture and livestock. The project would
also finance the development of a 25-hectare farm and the necessary technical
assistance, as well as the construction, furniture and equipment for three
field stations that would be located in the same areas as the lower and upper
secondary agricultural schools (paras. 3.08-3.12) and 6 staff houses.
3.14      The total enrollment would be about 150 student, divided into 120
in the agricultural stream and 30 in the livestock stream (Annex 5), with an
expected annual output of 36 and 9, respectively. The students would include
Baccalaureat graduates and a few selected extension workers capable of up-
grading. Theoretical and field work would be integrated throughout the pro-
gram. Field training would be coordinated with that of the upper and lower
secondary agricultural schools; this is also expected to benefit future
working relations among the different levels of agricultural extension workers.
This program, which would be separate from other courses at ENSA, would be
managed by an administrator under the Director of ENSA; while it would have
most of its own teaching staff, about 500 hours annually would be required
from ENSA's own teaching staff. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Government that it will ensure that ENSA will provide about 500 hours
of teaching for this program. It would be a condition of disbursement of Loan
funds for this component that the Government has provided the administration
of the program with budgetary and administrative autonomy.
Rural Health Training
3.15      The project would finance the construction, furniture and equipment
for 3 clinics with student dormitory facilities at Bambili, Batouri and
Ngaoundere to train medical and paramedical students in rural health care. It
would also finance vehicles to transport students between the clinics and dis-
pensaries in each zone. The clinics would be in three of the 7 zones already
designated by the Ministry of Health as pilot zones to promote rural health
care (para. 2.09).
3.16      Under this project, CUSS's medical and paramedical students would
be grouped into teams of about 8 students each, comprising students from the
last two classes of the medical program and all classes of the nurses and
health technician training programs. Throughout the year, these teams would
operate the health centers in one of the health zones for about two months
under the supervision of their instructors. During this period the students
would perform all functions required of them in preventive and curative health
care as well as in health and nutrition education. They would learn about the
predominant diseases in these three regions (e.g., tuberculosis, malaria, leprosy
and measles), organize vaccination campaigns, check the health of primary school
students, examine patients, and develop prenatal and postnatal care. This
training would prepare them for their graduation, when they would be required
by the Government to serve with the services of the Ministry of Health in the
rural areas.



-16-
Pre-Investment Studies
3.17      The educational program for the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1976/77-1980/
81) and an order of priority for investments in this sector have not been es-
tabLished.  The Government has indicated, however, that it will pursue further
some! of the goals mentioned in paragraph 2.14. The proposed project includes
provisions for pre-investment studies, the results of which, if found acceptable
to the Government and the Bank, could form the basis for a future project for
Bank Croup financing.
(a)  Rural Information System Study.  1.5 man-years of technical assis
tance, a fellowship, vehic"es and equipment for surveying rural
information needs in specified regions of Cameroon, to improve the
rural information system and to support agricultural extension and
other rural activities, particularly in association with the train-
ing programs proposed in this project (para. 2.28(c)). The study
would be carried out by the Rural Information Unit of the Ministry
of Agriculture.
(b)  Other Studies.  About 6 man-years of specialist services for feasi-
bility studies and preliminary designs for an education project
that could include the investments identified under (a) above.
Agreement between the Government and the Bank on the terms of reference for
(a) and (b) above would be conditions of disbursement of Loan funds for
each of these components.
Reinforcing Project Implementation
3.18      The project would finance 2 man-years each for a procurement special-
ist and an architect and one man-year for a civil engineer. They would be
attached to the project unit of the MOE that is responsible for implementing
the projects financed by Credits 161-CM and 320-CM. This unit has experience
in constructing and equipping educational facilities, and would be assigned
responsibility for carrying out the construction program and equipment and
furniture purchases of the proposed project (para. 4.03).
C.   Cost of the Project
3.19      The total cost of the project, net of taxes and customs duties, is
estiLmated at about CFAF 5.6 billion, or about US$24.9 million, and CFAF 6.9
billion, or US$30.5 million, including taxes and customs duties. The distri-
butiLon of project costs by major category of expenditure is given in Annexes 6
and 7 and the breakdown by item is as follows:



- 17 -
Summary of Project Costs
CFAF (million) a/     US$ (million) a/    % of        Taxes
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Total  CFAF   US$
Lover Secondary
Technical School,
Douala              168.5   713.6   882.1   0.75    3.17    3.92  22.6   238.0  1.06
Lower Secondary
Technical School,
Ngaoundére          160.3   348.4   508.7   0.71    1.55    2.26  13.1   129.9  0.58
Management of
Agricultural
Education            42.1   126.1   168.2   0.19    0.56    0.75   4.3        8.4  0.04
Lover Secondary
Agricultural
Schools             199.6   314.2   513.8   o.88    1.40    2.28  13.2   129.2  0.57
Upper Secondary
Agricultural
Schools             243.0   385.0   628.0   1.o8    1.71    2.79  16.1   160.9  0.72.
Higher Agricultural
Technician
Training Program   293.3   551.1   844.4   1.30    2.45    3.75  21.7   165.8  0.74
Rural Health
Training Program    62.3   113.0   175.3   0.28    0.50    0.78   4.5    48.3  0.21
Pre-Investment
Studies              26.5    80.5   107.0   0.12    0.36    o.48   2.8        6.8  0.03
Project Unit          16.9    50.6    67.5   0.08    0.22    0.30   1.7        3.4  0.02
Base Cost
Estimate         1,212.5 2,682.5 3,895.0   5.39   11.92   17.31 100.0   890.7  3.97
Physical Con-
tingencies          121.2   268.3   389.5   0.54    1.19    1.73  10.0    89,1  0.40
Expected Price
Increases            432.8   875.0 1,307.8   1.92    3.89    5.81  33.5   291.8  1,28
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    1,766.5 3,825.8 5,592.3   7.85   17.00   24.85           1,27     5.65
a/ Without taxes and customs duties.



- 18 -
3.2()     The cost estimates are based on recent work undertaken by both the
pub:Lic and private sectors, including a detailed analysis of the actual costs
of the First Education Project and the bid results for some of the institu-
tioIIs of the Second Education Project. They also take into consideration in-
formation supplied by the Ministry of Public Works and its regional services.
The estimated unit cost, net of taxes and customs duties, per square meter of
gross area for the facilities of the higher technician training program at the
end of March 1975 is CFAF 48,000 (about US$215) for classroom blocks, CFAF
50,000 (about US$200) for administrative blocks, CFAF 68,000 (about US$300)
for staff housing, CFAF 47,000 (about US$210) for dormitories and dining
blocks, and CFAF 37,000 (about US$165) for the farm buildings, workshop and
sheds.  Yaoundé was taken as a reference point and appropriate local cost
adjustment factors have been applied, depending upon the locations of the
project institutions. These unit costs compare favorably with those of
neighboring countries. Site development has been estimated at about 10%
of ithe cost of civil works, and furniture between 4% and 14%, depending
upon the type of institution and facilities. Utilization rates based on
a work-week of 40 hours vary among institutions: they are on average 91%
for the higher technician training program, 88% for the lower secondary
teclnical school in Ngaoundere, 83% for the lower secondary agricultural
schools, and 52% for the upper seconclary agricultural schools. The dis-
tribution of costs by category is as follows:
(US$ million)              %
Local    Foreign    Total       of total
Civil Works                 5.21       6.87      12.08       48.6%
Furniture                   0.38       0.37       0.75        3.0%
Equipment                   0.59       5.23       5.82       23.4%
Consulting Architects       0.32       0.48       0.80        3.2%
Technical Assistance         1.26      3.80       5.06       20.4%
Fellowships                 0.09       0.25       0.34        1.4%
Total Project Costs   7.85       17.00      24.85     100.00%
3.21      Contingencies (Annex 8).  Ihe cost of the project includes an allow-
ance for physical contingencies of 10% for all categories of expenditure. The
allowance for both local and foreign price escalation is calculated on the
basis of the estimated base cost of the project as of March 30, 1976, and
amounts to about 31% of the base-cost estimate plus physical contingencies.
3.22      Foreign Exchange Component.  This amounts to US$17.0 million equiva-
lent, or about 68% of the total project cost of US$24.9 million, net of taxes
and duties. This has been estimated as follows: (i) 57% for civil works
(including site development), (ii) 5C% for furniture, (iii) 90% for equipment,
(iv) 60% for consulting architects, and (v) 75% for technical assistance
and fellowships.



19 -
3.23      Recurrent Cost of the Project.  In 1982, the first year when all the
project schools become fully operational, the total recurrent costs, which
would be met by the Government, would amount to an additional CFAF 380 million
(US$1.7 million). The increase in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture
would account for CFAF 145 million (US$0.6 million) of this total and that of
the Ministry of Education for CFAF 235 million (US$1.1 million). There would
also be annual increases in the budget of the Ministries of Agriculture and
Livestock for hiring the graduates of the project schools. These increases
are estimated (at 1974/75 prices and salary scales) to be about CFAF 115 mil-
lion (US$0.5 million) annually for the Ministry of Agriculture and CFAF 36
million (US$0.2 million) for the Ministry of Livestock. This is not ex-
pected to impose an undue burden on Government finances.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      Project Preparation.  Signature of contracts between the Government
and the consulting architects would be a condition of Loan e.ffectiveness. To
accelerate project implementation, the Government is selecting the consulting
architects (para. 4.05), and sketch drawings are expected by July 31, 1976.
Retroactive financing up to a maximum of US$50,000 is recommended to cover the
Bank's share of the cost of consulting architect services prior to Loan
signature.
4.02      Project Administration.  Tne MOE would be responsible for supervising
the execution of the the lower secondary technical schools, the rural health
training program of CUSS, and the higher technician training institute at ENSA.
The MOA would be responsible for the upper and lower secondary agricultural
schools and the pre-investment stuidy for the rural information system.
4.03      The day-to-day supervision of construction, procurement, and loan
administration of the proposed Third Education Project would be the responsi-
bilîty of the Project imnplementation Unit est.ablished in MOE for the First
and Second Education Projiects.  In addition to the reinforcements described
in çmaragraph 3.18, this Unit wouid ne supported by designated representatives
from each of the MinisLries concernaet  wîth the project.  The staff nlemoer
designated by the Ministry of Agr-iclture would be on a fu.l-time oasis.
4.04      'he I)irector of the Project. Gnit wovild be resiuons.blb  for:  (a)
coordination witil the (,overnmnent 'Ministries and aoencies iavolved; (b) suner-
vision of project inipienentati on; (c) iison with tiie icank; ain  (d) coilec.ion
and preparaL.lon oî dlata necessary Vor L,e progect completion rep orL.  A
dition of effectiveness woild be Lneo assig:;ïlen  to  he Praoject Uni : o£ staff
and responsibîlities accepLable to t-e .auk.
4.O[      L' rofesst1oaal Sorvices.  'iie                   niescgi, lar.;g and supervisJoi -,n  f the
construiction of ail projecL institti t.S WOtUjci be             `)detaken ly consu.lting,
arch [ects financed by Llhe project (US$0.() o i;iî uo) . Thiey a:e expected to be






- 20 -
locally recruited, but they would be assisted in the engineering work by con-
sultants, acceptable to the Bank. The project also provides 52.0 man-years
of other professional services and technical assistance (Annex 4) at a cost
of about US$3.1 million (US$60,000 per man-year, of which US$40,000 is esti-
mated to be for salaries), as well as US$0.5 million for pre-investment
studies and future education project preparation. Assurances were obtained
from the Government that: (a) the qualifications, terms of reference, and
the conditions and terms of employment of all the specialists engaged under
the project will be acceptable to the Bank; and (b) all the periodical or
special reports that these specialists are required to prepare will be sub-
mitted to the Bank for review and comment. Under their terms of reference,
all project specialists would be required to train counterparts.
4.06      Sites have been selected for the lower secondary technical school
in Douala, for the joint campus of the upper and lower secondary agricultural
schools and for the main campus of the higher technician training institute.
The sites for the three field stations of the higher technician training pro-
gram, the three rural health education centers and the lower secondary tech-
nical school at Ngaoundére have not yet been selected. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from Government that it will present evidence of
ownership, satisfactory to the Bank, for the sites of all the project build-
ings prior to the start of construction.
4.07      Procurement.  Gontracts for building works (US$12.1 million),
furniture (US$0.7 million) and equipment (US$5.8 million) would be awarded
following international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. The building works are wi:hin the capacity of Cameroon's con-
struction industry. Local contractors would be given a domestic preference
of 7-1/2% in bid evaluation. Furniture and equipment manufactured in Cameroon
and in countries which are a party to IJDEAC 1/ would be allowed a preference
equal to the lower of (a) 15% of the c.i.f. price on imported goods, or (b)
the prevailing duties generally applied to non-exempt imports. Items which
are not suitable for international competitive bidding or cannot be grouped
in packages of at least US$20,000, would be procured on the basis of quota-
tions according to local procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. The
total of all such purchases should not exceed US$300,000 over the duration of
tLe project.
4.08      Financing (Annex 10).  The total cost of the project (USS24.9
million), net of taxes and customs dutfes, would be financed by the proposed
Third Window Loan of US$17.0 million and by the Government. This Loan would
cover 100% of the foreign exchange expenditures, which amount to 68% of the
1/  Ulnion Douanière des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale:  a customs and economic
union grouping Cameroon, Gabon, Central African Republic and People's
Republic of the Congo.



- 21 -
project cost.  Retroactive financing up to a maximum of US$250,000 is recom-
mended to cover the Bank's share of the cost of building works on the lower
secondary technical school in Douala, for which expenditures are expected to
start prior to Loan signature, and up to a maximum of US$50,000 to cover the
cost of the services of the consulting architects who would be working on
the sketch drawings for the project institutions.
4.09       Disbursements.  The funds from the Loan Account would be disbursed
as follows:
(a)  100% of the foreign expenditures (c.i.f. costs) for imported
equipment and materials, or 75% if these are purchased locally;
(b)  100% of the foreign expenditures (c.i.f. costs) for imported
furniture, or 75% if this is purchased locally;
(c)  60% of the total expenditures for architectural consultants;
(d)  75% of total expenditures for technical assistance and fellow-
ships; and
(e)  57% of the costs, representing  the foreign exchange component,
of civil works.
US$2.6 million of the Loan would be unallocated. Disbursements would be made
against contracts or certificates of expenditure; documentation for the latter
would not be submitted for review, but would be retained by the Government and
would be available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project
supervision. Any funds remaining undisbursed at the completion of the project
would be cancelled. Construction is expected to be completed in about three
years after the signing of the Loan Agreement (Annex 11). The estimated
schedules of disbursement are shown in Annexes 12 and 13.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01       During Loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that:
(a)  it will establish, by December 31, 1976, a national committee for
agricultural and rural education, with composition, powers and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.05);
(b)  it will make, by December 31, 1977, recommendations on how to
improve the training and working conditions of agricultural teachers
and will implement, by December 31, 1978, those recommendations
agreed upon between the Govetnment and the Bank 3.07(a));
(c) it will complete, by December 31, 1977, legal measures acceptable to
the Bank to establish the agricultural teacher training program at
ENSA (para 3.07(b));



- 22 -
(f) all the periodical or special reports that the specialists
engaged under the project are required to prepare will be
submitted to the Bank for review and comment (para. 4.05(b));
(g) it will present evidence of cwnership, satisfactory to the Bank,
for the sites of all the project buildings prior to the start
of construction (para. 4.06).
5.02      Conditions of Loan effectiveness  would be the signing of contracts
between the Government and the consulting architects (para. 4.01); and the
designation of the existing Project Unit as the unit responsible for super-
vising the implementation of the proposed project, and assignment to it of
staff and responsibibilities acceptable to the Bank (paras. 4.03-4.04).
5.03      Conditions of disbursement woull be:
(a) for the lower secondary technical schools in Douala and Ngaoundere,
the completion of legal measures to establish governing boards
w'th composition and powers acceptable to the Bank (paras. 3.02 and
3.04);
(b) completion of legal measures to strengthen the MOA's capacity
to develop programs of agricultural education and to supervise
their implementation in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)  for the higher agricultural and livestock technician training
institute, the provision of budgetary and administrative autonomy
from ENSA (para. 3.14); and
(d) for the pre-investment studies, agreement between the Governmaent
and the Bank on the terms of reference for these studies (para.
3.17).
5.04      Retroactive financing in the amount of US$300,000 is recommended
to cover (a) the cost of the services of the consulting architects who wouid
be working on the sketch drawings for the project institutions (US$50,000),
and (b) vhie Bank's share of the cost oE building works on the lower secondary
technical school in Douala (US$250,000). Work under both (a) and (b) above
is expected to start prior to Loan signature (paras. 4.01 and 4.08).
5.0      The proposed project forms a suitable basis for a Third Window Loan
of US$17.0 million, for a period of 25 years, including a seven-year grace
period.



campARAIIVE EDUCATION  IMDICATORS                                                                  ANNEX  1
Pag. 1 f 2
JANtJARY 9, 1976
-----------------  .......................................................................................................... ;......
t         t             1           1                    9           t         1             8        1              1              1          8
s aWP  1 1  GMP    il  TOYALIS    (W  PUBLIC  1                               1             SPRI.  IAV.PRI.    8                   1          ISEC    8           a
tCAPITAI nEVDTEDIPUBLIC  2 EDUCATION                     iLITER-  t PRI.  ICDMPLE-  ISTU-  SSCH.TEACMrPpn&pEss-i sEc. isTu-  s                                     1
i   At   1 TC  EDU.8   FXP. 1 RECLJRRENT                 tAty        iENROLLtTI(JN           IDEMYSSSALARY  INSION  RATE  tENRDLLtOtNT31MIGMERS
1         IMARKETS  tPUBLICenEVOTEOsEXP ALLUCAttDi    RATE  IRATIO  IRATE FDRIPER    IRELATItIN  IFROM PRJ.jRATIO  iMER    stNRMLLt
s POP.  SPRICÉSI Exp.             1    79     9        MIS          s(X OF   s NFI   sPRI.3CH.ITEACHI TO GNP/  sTD  SEC,    t NfT   sTEACH- RATlrjt
YRI(O-On) 2  (M IS ENLY)    1    EDU.  IPRI. SEC. ql.SADLJLTBIS  (X)   tCYCLE(%)tER                                 1 CAPItA   8    (x)           1  (1)   SEP        8  et)    1
1         1          1            1           1                     1           8         1             1        8              1              t          8        1         1
1  (1)  il   (21  8   ci)         8 (4)   1             (5)         1 (b)       1 CI)   1    (9)        8  (9) t   (10)         1  (III        %(12)   1(13) M A)   i
.......................................................  -------------------------------------------------------  --------------------
&DV&4rrr)
73     7.5t  ?,410C           4.3       9.9        470   25Q   koo         99         98          93          26          2.0           99          51        1q         A.00
CA'iknà              72   21.9   4,440             7.7      19.4        Io      38     JQ       99         BQ          98          24          2.0           99          8?         17        9.00
GERMANY  F.REP.72   6 1 . b   3, 3 90              4.2      1 4 . 2     . . .   74*  ?b        99         91          99          33         ...            99          91         22       17.OOCY
JAPA4                71  106.9c  21320C            4.3    ?0.7          39      3m     12       qq         99D         99C         25C         2.0           99C         94D        2nc      28.0on
NETHeRLàYDS          7c   1 3 . 3   - , A 4 n     M.5      1q.IG       3 L>    45      1 0     99         95          95          29          1 . 0         97          73         2 n      1 1 . t) 0
4EM ZFALANn          73     2.9C P.5bOC            5.2      ...         39      2m     ?9       99         99          90          26         ...            99          É.7        19       24.no
4ORW à y             72     3 . 9   31 34n         7 . 0    1 5 . 2     SA      23     1 3      99         99          99          20           1.9          qq          76         14       1 1 . no
SWEOEN               73     8 . 1 c 4, 48nc        8.9      ib.0        36      la     13       99         qq          99          17         . . .          90          85         Io       30.00
J..                 70   55.ec ?1600C             5.8      13.8        ...    ...   ...    97             g8          ...         28         ...            ...         se         18       ...
U. 3. à              72  2 0 9 . M   5,5qfl        6.0      15.4        . . .   73**  27        qq         99          99          2su         2 . 0         ...         93         19U      rg.0
EURJI-E
R-E-E-C-;           7 1    A. ac  1 , 4boc        2. 2     1 1 . 1     54Y   29Y   14Y         A2A        qsy                     32Y                       70A         SMY        43Y      1 1 . 0 0
TREL4ND              72     3 . 0   1 , 5 8 0      5 . 1    1 3 . 91)    43Y   4 1 y   14Y    99           97          QQA         35         ...            q5à         7s         1 9       7.OOA
lloqTIJGAL           72     9 . 7      7 3 0       . . .                                                                                                                 65xy                 7      y
SPAIN                71   34.3c  1.1onc            2 .68   1 5,,;A                              9,;;       99 1, 'A                                                       29À       ;O,       6 : é'." à
AFRIC&
.L-.  1.             73   14.2c        430C        9.(A       ...       4 3     3 2    1 6      25A        6 7         86          4 3         6. 0          3 7         iax        ab        3 .150
SE z 1 14            7 3    2.9C       1 1 c c     5 . 3    3 2 . 0     4 7    a 3      1 0      1 1       32xe        7DI3        508        25.09          4 31q         7m       390       0.**Cy
BITSO&NA             7 A    0 . 7      300         5.0      2 0 . 0     3 m     2 0     1 5     25         7nx         75          35          5 . 0         24           13X       11%       0.30Y
3URUNDI              7 2    3.b         6.0        . . .      . . .     ...    ...   ...         ...       2TxB       ...         368Y       . . .           . . .        21 Py   IIAY        0 . 1 slqy
c A 4 E pl IN        73    6.4 c       246c        5.9      2 0 . 0     3eY   29Y   17Y          ...       74            . .       siov                                    9        23cy       0.90cy
c . A . R.           70     1 . bc     I&OC        Q.ON   20 . 0        56      1q      . . .    . . .     64cy        25          65cy       . . .          1 8           SCY      VOY        0.07Y
CHAD                 75     4. oc       80C        3.0      10.0         78     22       0       1 5       29XBY        30          65 BY     15               8           2XBY    30          0.01BY
c 0 4 G n ( 1q       7 3    1 . 3 C    lont        b.A      ?6.4        4 5 A y  35py  ISMY   50?         1 39X        . . .       63                                    29         Il 3y      p  'Acy
ET411pli             73   25.9C         An         3. 1    20.0         42      29      1 5       7        17C         42          50           ;:O                        2        30         0:',,
r, A 3314            73     0 .5e      mooc        5 . 0    2 0 .6      25       9      1 1      ...      imax9y       25C         É46C        5 .0          18À         20C        21C        1 .40cy
GHAMA                7 1    9.ic       IQOC        4 . 7    29.4DR   380   1 S 9   2 3 9         ...       sbxcy       b?          30cy       . . .          1 4          1 1 x     16cy       0 Imay
1 v IQY f- ja -;T   72     5.Q        3 (10       6 ";    29.7         279Y  318Y  1 3y          4A       5?          57À         46          . .           . . .        1 0       ès         1 rthy
KENIYA               73   12.1c        170C        6 . 4    2 7 . 0     63      1 1    1 1      40        q05X         ...         40          8.0           1 a          1 a       23         1 . 0 39jy
LE 9 DTH'l           73     O . 9c      9nc        Q.7      2 2 . 0     45C   1 %c   ?4C        4 0        bs          ...         45                                               a a        0
7 a                                                                                   59                      39                                                             104Y
SE R 1 à                  1 bc      333C        P.7      11.4        2 5     1 3     22       ...                    ...                     1                         2.        2 0
'A A Lg 4 1          7 il    4.7C      iooc        3 . 1    ?0.9        ...    ...   . . .    ?S           So' x       60          50           7 . 0        4 0           4 x      2 0        0.26cy
'IA Li               7 a    S.IC        70C        4.6N   3 2 . 3       368   5aa   1 28        1 0        Im          22          a O         $1.0          3 7           4        1 7        0 . 1 bA y
MAJRITANTA           7 0    1 Zc       laoc        4 . 5    2 1 . 0     ...    ...   . . .       Io        1 -sx       ...         22           . . .         . . .        3        24         . . .
14&iqitf J-3         72     0 . 9      1 0 0       3 . 7    11.7D       71      10       4      80         ab          99          31           . . .         ...        il         31)        1 .07ty
4OR(ICCO             74   15.9C        2lec        5.0c   1 6. 5        44      47       9      26?        5dix        21          37           . . .        il           lix       21         2.0
4IGERY à             71   bq.SC        130C        3.?N   . . .         40A   ?4A   20À          ...       39xcy       . . .       34CY         . . .        . . .         4        20cy    0.37ty
QWA4DA               73     3.7c        bONC       3.2c   28.OD         . . .    . . .   ...    23         52          ...         si           . . .         . . .        2        13         0.23ty
SE4£rÀL              71     a . oc     250C        Q.ON   22.SDR   ISA   4aA             SA      10        38X         ...         46           . . .                      lx       25            lity
SIERRA LErJNE   73          2.1c       IQOC        3 . 4    2 3. 4      31    36       30        15?       34X         lis         32          ZQE                        Il lx     21         .1 :5 3My
SOSALT à             73     2.9c        moc        . . .      70        57      lb     i3         5        1 3         91          35         15.0           4S            3        la         1 . 0
SUDAN                72   1 6. 5       1 20        4 . 5    1 32        43      29     20        15        38          75          #5           4.0          25           1 1       20         1.?3y
SWAZILAN)            72     0.4c       2 6 0       4,3A   19.1          37      2      1 8     ?8         66          22          38           7 . 0         . . .       16DY      20         1 .(
1rAyjàjA            74   13.2t        1 llc       5 . 1 M   1 7 . 0    36      . . .   12      63         44X         . . .       49           . . .          7           2        21C        0 . 3
TU,dlqlt             73     5 . 3 1,    3MOC       6.3    2 3 . 4       17    43        18      55         72          81          as           6 . 0        31           la        21         3 . O
JG&NIIA              70   10.4t        isoc        5.?N   17.bCg   9 0 0   2aQ   250            25A        403xcy      ...         36           . . .        14A           ËXCY   21           0.136my
OPPER  VI)LTA        72     5.b         64         4.(      23.9        bs      Io       6        5        10          ...         45         16.0           eo            a        23         0.0110Y
ZAIRE                73   2 3 . 4      1 a 7       5.2CN  21 SC         s4c   tic   29C          is        63          39          44A          6.0          43            8        24         0.q6ey
zd 491A              73     Q.St    'i8oc          5.à      16.5        4a    2       ie       la         95X         . . .       5 0          . . .        20          15X        2 0        0.44AY
CE4TRAL à4ERICA 4140  TME  rAPIRBEAN
.................................
COSTA RICA           71     I.BC       bloc        5.?    22.7          57      25      12       99        86cy        65           2q           3.0         58          22cy       as       12.IICY
D04141CÀN  REP.72           4 . 2      4 8 0       2.5      1 5. 5 DR   4 2     2 4     22      5 1        e 0          1 1        54            I.DD        6 3          1 3       26         7 . 00
Et  SALYADOP         7 5    3.7c       34ec        3.6      2 3. M      6 1      5      22       5sky      lixcy        ...         39cy         ...          ...         lbxcy   21cy    4.3591Y
GUéTtmàLA            73     5.6c       42ot        1.9      16.0        SS      23      14       41        64          26           313          1.0         69            a        25         4.oçy
4 A 1 T t           7 2    q.4        1 3 0       0.9        b.bn      E. 1    1 1      e       2015      22          2s?         as            5.0         5 0           3        2 3        1.00?
'10 4D UR àq         72     2 . 7      32n         3. 9     26.SD       6 94    1 3     1 a      '52       six         1 8         3 7           6. 0        75          I&Y        til        3 . 0 0
jA4AlcA              72     1.9        Ain         6.SY   19.7          13Y   22Y        7y     Sb        106xy        ...         52                                    32xv                      gy
70   54.JC        Tsnc                                                                                                                                                   4:T2
IqE x 1 e 0                                        2. 6       9 . 3     54      24      1 2     ?b         7 à         3 1         46                                    1 9        2 3       à  3 cy
41C*RAGU&            74     2.IC       b3o         2.5      1 4 . 2     bi      13      il       57        65          21          37                        93          17         24         7.n
TRINIDAD  &  T. Il          1.0c       440C        5 . 1    1 m . 9     13      27      12       90        qsx         si          35                        15          49         2-3        2.56AY
3oiTH ANEPtek
BRAZIL               74   98.2c        530C        4.1      12.OC       42      20       37      79        Rox          ...        27cy          ...         ...          188       ISCY    6.008
CHILf                72   io.D         g(O         4.6y   10.6y         340Y  150Y  #00Y   ...            litxny        ...         376Y         ...          ...        4XDY   ...
COLO481A             70   23.C        4DOC        4.0      10.9        is      la      ?o       73        67          20          36            4 . 0       go           27        14        ;:;O
ECJADnR              72     b.5        3bo         3. 7     ?7.7c       459Y 429Y  IOGY   be               72           ...        38
r'uyt4à              74     Û.7c       460C        5.A4   14.70         47    35        14       83À       92X         3q          33                                    sa,        I,4,
PARAr.uày            74     2.4c       320C        t'A      1 7 . 9     57      ts      28       81        se          26          29            1.9         65          15X        Io         4. 90
PERU                 71   1,4.1c       520C        4.5      24.1n       So    22        15       7z        80          38          390Y          3.0         70          30         ?3DY    12.00
VEIEZLJELA           73   1 1 . 1 c   1?40C        4 .6     19.9        300   289   330          77A       fi 1        . . .       33            a .4        . . .       33         . . .    12.63cy



COM4PARATIVE EDUCATION TNOICATORS   (CONTO)                                       ANNE0 O  PAGE 2
*f**S8S...sum.S*S.f                                                                         f 2
IJANUARO I, 1976)
1  GP4P/ I X 048   s2 TOTALI.i    0F PUBLIC                  I        a          SPRI. *AV.P41.   a               a       :SEC   i 
a    CAPITAi DEOOTEOîPUBLIC a EOuCATION    ILITER- 1 PRI. ICO14PLE. ISTU- *SCM.TEACIIaPPnGREss.u  SEC. tSTUJ- 2 
*       AI  1 TO EDU.:   EXP. i RECURRENT    SACY            I ENtOtLIsTIN       *O ENTS,SALAAO  INN 2ON RATE IENRCLLIOENTSI141G1ERî
i       î4A91<tKî  <PUBL!Cg0EVOTES,EXP ALLOCATE09  RATE .94720O IRATE FORIPER   iRELATZON iFRnlP PRI,IRATIO IPER   IENROLLI
* POP, SPRICES:  EXP.    à  TO    a           Tot       t(l OF   I MET   sPRî.SCM.I7EACWi4  TO &NP/ :70 SEC.   i NET  sTEACH4. RATIO,
YRi<000) a CU50)s ONLY)   a  EDU. iP'Rt. SEC. 41.$ADOLYS>, (XI  *CYCLE(X)aE4    e CAPOTA   I  (XI                        a Cx)  *ER    a (X)        
* 01) la   (2) a  (3)    a  (4)   i           15>       I (6>    a <7)   i  CI        i C')1 a   10)    I (22)        1<12)   8(13) 8CIA) 
&3là AND 'ICEANTA
É40901400014     73  12.SC       70C      1.2    20.2       ...    ..    ... 23         56a       *...      48          ..       ..        14       2
C14INA1TATWàN] 73   15.11    490C         1.3    10.0       28    mi   22      42       98        94        40        1.0        4         55        6        .0
IN3I8            71 563.5C    2 iOC       2.6V0  ..          .       .      .   9       790       ...       '134       ...       ...       280      204Y   0.0040
IN0'4E0.053      73 123.0C   1220         1.0    21.0      63    23    14      62i      63        40        3?         5.0       92        12       16       2.00
IRAN             73  29.51    4501        3.3    12.6      508   148  122    50         77        74£       32         5.08      800       24       32       4l.3210
I2940            72   13.1      370       6.7    16.30R    .         .   ...   26       MiC       ...       22         ..         ..       26XC0   26        6.2810
rnoq)&N          73    2.47    ?707       7.0     M.8      52    25    21      59       Q10       76,       38         5.00 O              500      22      4.00
K0914            70   32.37    0101       2.9    29.3       64    26     9     gr       47        g0        53         3.00      7l        si       39       6.00
1EW440N          72    2.9      700       3.5    26.0       39    40    Io      68      86        65        19         2.00      63        2AU      25     23.00
4A~l.AST4        72   12.4      430       6.(4   22.70....... 60                        900       ...       32          .*        .        331      26
0484             72    0.6      930       2.3      3.8      96b    -            20      240       99        33         7.0       ..          0.4X   9
8414)97AN        75  b6.7t    2301        1.6      6.2      45    25    18      21      470       50        39         2.00       ...       170     18       6.00
PHI4LIPPINES   71*  39.OC    220C         ?.r9   24.9       73    15    12      mi     1044       ...       34          15        . ..      460     ...    21.00
SoidGAPrIpo      72    2.2    1200        3.20   16.2       ma    31    15     75A    1070        72        33          ...      99        (47      24       95.250
TIO4ILANt)       73  3A.5       220C      3.0N  18.7       65      9    15     42       870       93C       32         3.O0OU    921       220      24       2.00
T39%eVF          72  37.0       370       ...    13.D0      ....3..9.245105c                      ...       3400       ...       ...       2200    27100    5.3180
0041E4           73    6.3      100       0.5      4.0     45P  21F   23P    il         150       2R        36         5.00      75          20     j9       0.115mo
004040M~0    72    1.5          ion       2.34   12.6       79    12            2>      700       31        29        24.00      99         120     20       0.0840
300144AR0 F13 DEVELOP24G CC2U4TR10S,
N>49E4 IF COJNTR2ES:                      67      67      si   59    59       62       73        41        72          38       41        73       69        67
q&43FS                                00.5-   (3.8-   (25- (0-   (4-    (5.         (10-      (17-      029-        01.8-    (7.        (.4.    C9-      (.01-
9*0  I  32.3)  96 ) 52)  401    98            18402x   99 I       66         25.0)    991        75.0)  43)       23.4)
OIJA4TILE&t(JiPPER I                   4 .7    21.0      57    36    20      613      91       76        45           7        76        26      26       4.79
MOEDIAMi                   4.0    18.2      80    27    19      5)       72        56        38          4        63        16       23       2.00
LIONER I                   0.0    14.0      42    17    i1    2')        48        25        33           3       25         ai      19       n.%3
DAA7.,...OT.'M JNAVA2LARLI                i.i970  OR BEFORE             4'.CIJRRENT PRICES                          SOURCESI
MAGNITUDE0 NIL IR NfGLIGIALE Ma0972                               4.1D8
O  01J0STIO)*ALE                      C.1972                        P.INCLUDINO FU041049 AID                     10482ANn 2 W4Ln41  BANK4
1 IOCLUDFS PART-TI40  STUDE4TS D.1973                             Q.CEWTRAL 00V7. ONLY                                             ATLAS
CO'R014E0 .274  '1421448          Enl974                        R.MINISTRV  0F EDtICATION <mo01  niNLY                 3 TO 14 I4RD 903Ss2nN9
S.M0E AND 80870 GOVT. ONLY                                       AND/lOR UNESCO
r,EXCLUOO4G CENTRAL 0007i.                                       STATISTICAL
U.PUBLTC ONLY                                                    0E448000
0.INC1UD?N6 PRIVAT! EXPE401TU4E
X.I4CLUD!4G OVERABEO STUDENTS
Y.UNESEtI SOURCES
Ct24P40ATTVE FO0147224 DATA AlEf USEFLIL IN 7441 EVALUATIO4I 0F VA92)38 EDUCATION $987145 AN0 ANAL.YS2S OF REL.ATIVE STAGES 3iF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELIRMENT 90741EN VAR1138 CCIINTRIES, MOAFVFR,ON 714E ASESg OF TII! PREIENT OATA,CROSS.NATIONAL COI9PARISON SI4nULD BE APPRTIACNED W17T4
0R1ey CA3770N. DATA PRESENTEO IN THE! 480VE TABLE HAVE OIEN COLLECTED AR6ELY BY TH4E BAN$< MISSIONS FROM GDVERNMENT SO2UR1E5: TUE
40941N304 ARF STAFF E8T)9ATES nR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAV0E BEEN MADE TE) STANDARDIZE 0FF2N1TI045 AN0 W17140N 12IMI7, TOI CHECK THE
ICCURACT IF TH1E DATA. NIVERT14ELESS,SUC14 DATA ARE 870LL IMPERFPECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTSAN T4£ BANK 411< wOS K01N1 TOl 1MPR00E 74EM
PR'l04E53240L0 7N THE 3ICASTEIN 0F 0T8 OPERATInONAL 408%. IN 714E US! 0IF 74E5E DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHO00L0 OE BORNE IN
42402t
(1l~'EIUCAlION- AS 7EF1N(D IN TUE TARIE INCLUOES AL 100CA101 N £40 TR414040, F04441 AND NON.FORMAL,
(2)"PR14A010 EDUCATI2ON REFERS TO EDUCATION AT TH4E FIR57 LEVEL. AND0 SECONDARY0 E21UCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LFVFL F!FrA40LESS 3IF TYPE (E.G. G00NFRAL. TECMNICAL, 4&RIC1Ll3LIàLI i
(3)'L21ERd,Cy RATE$'(COL.6) ARE 09TÉN 0BTAINEO F404 COUNTRY CENSUBES. IN 4*NOCOUNTRIEB 714EY ARE 0NLY APPR0X244720NS AND 17 25
D30047F0I T4A7 440 U41F084 DEFTNITIONO' F -LITERATE- 1A3 MEN FIDLLOWEO CO4SISTENTLY,
(4)~'UBLIC EXPE4DITURE 14E                               ANDTONCOB3. 4  S) RtEFER tl AIL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT E4PENDITURLFS  DEvOTED  TO EouC4TION 8y
PUBLIC AND0 QUAS1-PIUBL2C AGEN4CIES,
C5I-EMR0LLME40 R4TIUS'(CO4.S 7, 12 ANI) 14) REFIS TC) SCW4301 YEIl AND OFAN 7140 PERCENTAGE 0F E1IG1B10 C14IL340N ENAOLLED FULL-7114E
14 THE APP4OPRIATE SCIOIOL. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE Dy LEVEL. TM40Y ARE IIFIEN SURJECI TO A AIDE 4A4r1N 0F ERRO4 IN THE0 DEVELOPING
COUIATRIES 04140 TO VARIATION IN TH4E ACCURACY Of SASIC DATA<I.E. AGE-SPECIPIC POPULATION AND EN4OLLM4ENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREGOENTLO  ARE 140014R 044A4 T4E NUMBER Of 57U00NT5  ACTUALLY IN  SC1400L. OVERABED STUDENTS  W14O5E INCLUISION 1l INDICATED  fi0
FI2ITN(IES £180 CAM INFLATE T'4E QATIOS.



CAMEROON - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
EXISTING INSTITUTIONS OF AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
Enrollment ina/            Number    Cost per   Duration of
University Technician   Lower       of     Student/year   Program
Program    Program  Secondary Teachers       CFAF        (years)
Ministry of Agriculture
Upper Secondary Agricultural School               -           100       -          7         479,000        3
(Dschang)
Upper Secondary Agricultural School               -            20       -          8            n.a.        3
(Bambili)
School of Water Resources and Forestry            -            17       20        10         956,000       2
(Mbalmayo)
Lower Secondary Agriculture                       -            -        60        31         670,000-      2
(Maroua, Ebolova, Bafang, Abong-Mbang)                                                      805,000
Ministry of Livestock
Veterinary Training Center                        -            -        25         5         488,000        2
(Maroua)
National Veterinary Training Center                             5b/     15         2_/       650,0001/     1/2
(Jakiri)
Ministry of Education
ENSA                                             56            -        -         33 /    2,500,000         3
a/For the school year 1972/73.
b/For the school year 1974/75.
November 1, 1975
Source: World Bank Mission



ANNEX 3
Page 1
CAMEROON - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS
1.        In 1974, about 76% or 4.8 million of Cameroon's population lived
in rural areas. By 1990, the total population would increase to about 8.8
million, of which about 60% or 5.3 million would still live in rural areas.
These estimates are based on the assumption that the urbanization rate
(5.5% p.a.) would be slightly less than the rate of 6.5% p.a. during 1965-
70.
2.        The development of the rura:L sector will require trained personnel
from many disciplines. Given the limited employment opportunities that the
private sector is expected to offer, total training requirements will be
close to public sector needs and particularly those of Government.
3.        The total wage bill for the Government increased at about 14% p.a.
during 1971/72-1974/75, and those of the Ministries of Agriculture and Live-
stock increased at about 21% and 17%, respectively. Although these rates
cannot be expected to continue to increase at this level, it can be safely
assumed that they will be increasing at a rate greater than that of the
Government as a whole and will be enough to absorb the staff to be trained
at the institutions financed under this project.
4.        To accelerate agricultural development, the Ministry of Agriculture
will have to strengthen the administration both centrally and in the regions,
reinforce applied research work, and develop a capacity to implement develop-
ment projects. These considerations serve as the basis for projecting the
agricultural manpower requirements. This Ministry had at the end of 1974 the
following staff:
Table 1: Present Staff of the Ministry of Agriculture
Civil Service        Number
Type of Staff                Category         of Staff
Agricultural Engineer               A 2               150
Higher Technician                   A 1                90
Middle-level Technician             B                 360
Extension Agents                    C                 430
5.        The staffing requirements of the Ministry of Agriculture at the
central level are estimated on the basis of the present organizational
structure and assume that:
(a) each Directorate requires four A 2 and four B 2 staff;



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(b) each Service within a Directorate requires two A 2 and
two B staff;
(c) each Section within a Service requires one A 1 and one B
staff.
The requirements of the central administration by category are shown in
the table below.
Table 2: Agricultural Manpower Requirements
Civil Service Category
A 2     A 1       B           C     Total
Central Administration             54      44      94           -      192
Field Service                     176     386  1,400         2,400   4,362
Development Projects
and Research                    120     100    700            -      920
Others                             20       20    106           -      146
Total                        370     550  2,300        2,400   5,620
6.        The staffing requirements of the field services of the Ministry
of Agriculture are estimated on the following basis:
(a)  Provincial unit:  eight A 2, four A 1 and ten B staff;
(b)  Departmental unit:  three A 2, four A 1 and ten B staff;
(c)  "Poste Agricole":  to decrease the ratio from about 15,000
persons per "Poste" to about 10,000, the total number of
these units will have to increase from 330 at present to
530 by 1990. Of this number, about 200 would be "Postes
Agricole Principaux" 1/ requiring one A 1 and three B staff;
one of the B staff would be concerned with assisting rural
women;
(d)  Extension Agents:  to improve the effectiveness of extension
agents, the ratio of 1,500 families per agent will be de-
creased to about 500, a figure consistent with experience
in West Africa. 2/
1/ The "Poste Agricole Principal" is situated in Districts and "Arrondisse-
ments," of which there are at present 181. It has been assumed that
that there will be about 200 by 1990.
2/ It has been assumed that there will be 1.2 million rural families
in Cameroon by 1990.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
The total requirements of the field services by category are shown in Table 2.
7.        The staffing requirements of agricultural research institutions in
Cameroon have been estimated on the basis of the ongoing projects and the
planned research work. Also, the staff required for implementing specific
projects was estimated on the basis of the planned needs. The total require-
ments for both research and project implementation are shown in Table 2. The
requirements of other users of agriculturally trained personnel have been
estimated at about 5% of the total of all requirements.
8.        At the end of 1974 the Ministry of Livestock had the following staff,
including those attached to other ministries or governmental agencies:
Table 3: Present Staff of the Ministry of Livestock
Civil Service       Number
Type of Staff                          Category        of Staff
Veterinarians                        A 2 and A 1          37
Veterinary Technicians                    B )95
Veterinary Assistants                     C )
Given the potential for livestock development in Cameroon, this staffing is
inadequate. The present ratio of about 60,000 head per veterinarian should
be reduced to about 15,000 head by 1990, to lmprove and strengthen the live-
stock protection and animal production services. There is also a need to
staff the projects and "special action zones" of the Ministry of Livestock
and to lay the basis for applied research.
9.        Staffing for headquarters and the field is based on the following
assusptions:
(a) the central administration: this requires twenty veterinarians
(both A 2 and A 1);
(b)  the field services:  the requirements are based on the required
staffing in the livestock sector, subsectors and "Zones d'Action":
(i) each sector requires three A (A 2 and A 1) and three B staff,
(ii) each subsector requires two A (A 2 and A 1) and six B staff,
with the number of "Zones" increasing to 20.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
The requirements are shown in Table 4 below.
10.       It is also estimated that the creation of a veterinary research
capability and specific projects would add to the requirements, as shown
in the table below.
Table 4: Livestock Manpower Requirements
Civil Service Category
A 2        A 1           B      Total
Central Administration           7          13         20       40
Field Services                  41          74        300      415
Development Projects
and Research                20          35          75      130
Others                           7          13         40       60
Total                      75         135         435      645
Date: December 12, 1975
Source: World Bank mission



CAMEROON - ThIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project Item                                                 Calendar Year                  1977             1978                1979            1980             1981
Fi~~sca1               19                178             1979              1980 __   __18
_______3_s_4cials    Y n-months   t   T 7   1   2  3   4  2 2  3   4   1   2[3   4   1   2         4 2
Lower Secondary Technical School - Ngaoundéré
Administrative and Technical Management                  _                36      _    _  _ _                               XXX XXX     XXX XXX X        XX XXXDXXX  XXX
Management of Agricultural Education
Agricultural Education Planner                                1          36               xxx xxx xxx XXX  XXXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX
Teaching Methods and Teacher Training                         1          36                   XXX XXX xxx EX XXX XXX XXX XXx xxx xxx xxx xxx
Teaching Materials for Education and Extension                1          30                       XXX XXX KXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX XXX
Rural Sociology                                               1          36                   xxx xxx xxx XXX xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
Lower Secondary Agricultural Schools
Assistants to Directors                                       3          54                                                    XXX XXX| XXX|XXX
Upper Secondary Agricultural Schools
Assistants to Directors                                       3                                   54              XXX XX3x XXX XXX           -   -   -  -   -   -
Institute for Higher Agricultural Technician Training
Director                                                      1          42                               xxx xxx l   §  xxx   xxx xxx xxx xxx xxxx xxx xxx  xxx xxx
Specialist in Field Training                                  1          39     l                                 xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx        xxx xxx
Specialist in Evaluation                                      1          36                                     XXXI l    xxx xxx xxx|xxx|xxxlxxxlxxx        xxx xxx
Professors                                                    4         147     l                             XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXXXXX|XXX XXXXXX  XXX     XXX XXX
Pre-Investment Studies
Rural Information System                                      1          18    l   l  l   |   |       X X           XXX
Other pre-investment studies                                 n.a.       n.a.
Project Unit
Civil Engineer                                                1          12                  xxxlxxx xxx xxx
Architect                                                     1          24           >XXX|       X| | XXX XXX xxx xxx xxx
Procurment Specialist                                         1          24                   XXX XXx XXX y    Xxx xxx   XXX XXX
TOTAL                          22          624
*Date of Effectiveness
March 12, 1976
Source: World Bank Mission



ANNEX 5
CAMEROON - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ENRCLLMENTS OF AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS FINANCED UNDER THE PROJECT
Agriculture
Total                New
Lower Secondary Agricultural Schools               180                 150
Bambili                                       60                   60
Ebolowa                                       60                   45
Maroua                                         60                  45
Upper Secondary Agricultural Schools               255                 240
Bambili                                       90                   75
Ebolowa                                       go                   9o
Maroua                                        75                   75
Inst.for Higher Agric.Technician Training          150                 150
agriculture               120                  120
(Yaoundé)           livestock                  30                   30
March 12,1976
Source: World Bank Mission



CA14EROOB - THIRD) EDUCSATION PRO.JECT
SSI*îARY OF ESTIMATIF COOSSTTSe
Buildings and Site DIvelopun.tFofnonlSrce                                                                         siae
Ref.                                                    S-~~~ ~~~~                                                 ~~~~~~f Sie -ad Cmml Staff ~ d  gao              e,ansaltng  Technicul la ailîj         n  '0
Rf f.                                             Stu-        ment       ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Admin.  . .Oaadllg  andtu              E q.ipment  ArcieooAnnxtane  of CIAF                  f us$S
Part A  (15   Losne  ScdrnehlabSal.i. DInulA                                790       22.83         171.28       -         14.82                     208.93      28.40      644.72          -             -         882.05   3.920.22
(il>  Loue  Secodar   ieeall S.h..l. Nkga...d-r                   212       35.34         116.70       79.26    39.50                      270.80      17.80      156.60        23.02          40.50      508.72   2,260.88
p-rt B          Managemen t  ai AaRi..ltar-l Educatian                       -           -            -          -            -                        -           -           -           -            168.19    168.19        747.511
part C  <0)   L-ue  S ....da-  Agri.ulatal. S.hoala                         180       41.190         618        113.37   102.91      47.60           367.76     20.86        33.11        31.29          60.75      113.81    2._283.60
Ai  Bambili                   60       14.60          18.87       33.11    32.25       23.50          122.33       6.88       13.78        10.40                       --
A2  Maro...                   60       10.32          23.16       40.64    39.58       24.10          145.80       7.20       13.37        12.39          -- 
A3  Ealonsil.                 60        9.06          19.80       39.62    31.11                       99.63      6.70         6.00         8.30          ---
<ii)  UoPer S.çaad.ry AaRical t.ra 1Schaal 2.155                             33.23         103.08     176.61    101.62    24.93            459.47      19.40        49) .2 7     39.05          40_.75    628.04   2.791.29
Ol  Bambîli                   90       16.63          33.67       51.46    24.64        -126.40                   5.80        10.71        10.74                       --
02  MSa-gns                   75       20.44          41.32       63.16    30.1         -             153107      5.60        18.26        13.19                                  -
83  Ehoînne                   90       16.16          28.09       61.99    46.73      24.93           177.90      7.90        28.30        15.12                       .-
(1.i~145latitote for Iii&hno Ta1iiaIann                            50        38.72          92.97     129.61    401.33      62.37          425.00      31 .20       58.00        36.12        302.06      841..38   3._792.80
Cl ENIA Yaa..nde                                   -        22.42          58.60      88.30    34.43       50.85          246.60      17.70        35.10        20.96         -                       -
C2 Ragional Cent-r  1) Bambîli RIegion                       5.43          10.94      15.70      21.29      3.67           57.03       4.50         4.97         4.85         ---
25 F1-laru  Reiga                     5.43          13.45      16.42     22.30       3.83           59.43       4.58         4.93        9.05-
35 Ebolowu Regi.e                     5.44          11 .98     17.19      23.30      4.02           61.94       4.50         4.96         5.26         -                       -
Part D          Rural Health Ttasaiaa                                       144        7.31          52.08      34.27    25.54         -            119.20       6.08        48.00        10.13          -175.33                779.24
N-                                                                                        Ji: 00,  n-O  0OB 050 -396  2.00  13.33  322        -                       -
25Baad   eIm         -         2.44          17.36      11.42       8.2       -39.74                     2.60        13.33        33        
35 Batui Ragia                        2.43          10.18      11.9 7      8.92      -41.50                     2.00        13.34        35                               
Fart E  (01     Pe-egomn  St.diaa                                                       .             .                      -        -                          2.00         5.00                          l 0.   107.00       475.56
(1>Rei.tlrei.a FtnneatLapeetta                                                     -                 -         -             -                  -          -            -                         67.5   650       300.00
T OTAL BASE LINO COST                   CFAF millian                         199.41         597. 94    533.12   385.79   134.90           1.851.16    125.76        978.74       139.61        099.7   3,895.02          -
US$ Th- ...nd                        886.27      2,65Ï. 51  2, 369.42 1, 714.62   599.56          8,227.38    558.93    4,349.96        620.49       3.554.4         .      17,311.20
lia     Fiynical Caatlng ...iea         CFAF osillian.                                 -                -            .        -             185.12      [2.58        97.07        13.96          79.9-    389.50
US$ Thaunaed                 -                                                                       22.74      55.09      435.00         62.01        355.4        ~        1.231.12
1Ib            FOt-e..gbll Pne   ncu-        o
al doge Line Fonts          CFAF  illiio                             --                      .                                  682,12      31.00       233.12        21.47         335.87  1,307.76
.hsi-al  UaS$gnce              11  Thaasuad                  -          --3.331.64    138.55    1,036.08                                                                113.21       1,490.75                5,812.23
IITO_TALOF COBTINGRBCIES                CFAF nallian                            -                                                            67.24     43.76       330.99        39.43         415.84  1.697.26
US$ Th .a.aand               -          --                      -            -                    3,854.38    194.44    1,471.08        175.26       1.848.11                7.543.35
IffllO,A PROJECTGOST (I&II)./ CFAF nilli-o                           -                        -         --                                2,710.40    169.52   1,309.73         179.014      1,215.50  5.592.28
(snithgot taxes and             US$ Th .....d                          ..-                      -                                2,01.761   75337   5,021.014           795.75        54012.63             24,954.55
Va     TAXES ABS CUSTIOM OUTIES - in pnr-ntug                                                                                                 397        237%        2 e14c/       57,          57         237.        2 37.
CFd  nllo                                                                               -855                    72           340.53         8.95          60 .78  1.271.55
055 Thoun                                                                                           ,424.13    203.41   1,5 13.47          39.79         270.13                5,651.33
IV  TOTAL FROJRCT COlT a/         O~~~~~FAF nl'ioa-                         -.                       ---                              3,133.92    215.29    1,650.26        187.99       1,276.37  6.863.031
(nelti taxes amd Conton    S00 Thgunoi                  --                                           -                   15,706.29    956.78    7,334.51        835.54       5,672.76               30.505.88
VFOREIGN EXCHANGE COMPONEllT  C0FA  oillso-                                     -                                                         1,547.00      81.00    1,176.00       107.00         910.00  3,825.00
US   hosnd              j                                                                        6,074.00   :376.00    5,29.00)         477.00      4.044.0                 17,000.00
S aI 0.1. on rosE citA  Canes uad aoOtoo doie      -          -.                                   .        .               44".       397.        71/,        577           7 17.       5557
a1Tri fnna   oF   -h 31, 1976 (Total Ft-1-1 -oit shon gîho-t ca-e  ad  -ot-n du--en
A! Inc lIdiog IFAV 5. 0   illion  for f.1loeahips 19nuoots
g! Fadagogica1 eqo p.ent a-sumd ta b  Ieenepred ai ra--  -d  -otom  da~lle
Mar-h 12, 1976
Soorce   W.rl  Boni Mnooo-



CAMEROON - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
US$ 1.00 = CFAF 225
Total     Total
Civil                                 Consulting   Technical    (CFAF        (US$
Worksi/    Furniture    Equipment   Architects   Assistance   million)  thousand
Total Project Cost 2/
(in CFAF million)                    2,718.4       169.5         1,309.7       179.1         1,215.6    5,592.3
in US$ million                         12.08        0.75            5.82        o.80             5.4o                24.85
Foreign Exchange Component %            57%          50%            90%          60%             75%                    68.3%
Local - Foreign                      L      F     L      F       L    F       L      F       L    F                  L      F
COST (including Contingencies)   5.21  6.87   0.37  0.38   0.59  5.23   0.32  o.48   1.36  4.o4                    7.85  17.00
Taxes and Custom Duties           (3.63)   -   (0.20)   -   (1.51)   -   (0.04)   -   (0.27)  -                   (5.b5)
1/ Including construction site and farm development.
2/ Excluding taxes and customs duties and including contingencies.
March 12, 1976
Source: World Bank Mission
1



ANNEX 8
CAMER0QN - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
PRICE ESCALATION ASSUMPTIONS
(in percent)
1976  1977   1978   1979   1980/85
L]ocal    14    12     12     12       10
Civil Works
Foreign    14    12      12     12       10
Local    10      8      8      8        7
Furniture
Foreign    10      8      8       8       7
Equipment, Aricultural             Local    10       8      8      8        7
Machinery and Animals
~~~~~ ~~~~Foreign    10                        8      8       8       7
Local    10    10      10     10       10
Consulting Architects
Foreign    10    10      10     10       10
Local    10    10      10     10       10
Technical Assistance
Foreign    10    10      10     10       10
March 12, 1976
Source: World Bank Mission



CAMEROON - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES
(in U.S.$ Thousands)
Consulting              lechllical
Civil Works 1/           Furniture            Equipment 2/          Architects              Assistance                   TOTAL
Local       Foreign    Local   Foreign   Local          Foreign     Local   Foreign         Local      Foreign      Local         Foreign
Local/Foreign percentages                   43%           57%        50%/    50%         10%         90%        40%       60%           25%          75%       31.1%          68.9%
I(a)Total Cost before Contin-    3,537.77   4,689.61   279.46   279.47    435.00   3,914.96   248.20   372.29                    888.61   2,665.83    5,389.04    11,922.16
gencies 3/                         (8,227.38)             (558.93)              (4.349.96)               (620.49)             (3,554.44)               (17,311.20)
(b)Percentage                             47.55%                  3.23%                 25.13%                  3.58%                 20.51%                   100.00%
II. Contingencies iii °
(a)  Physical                       10%          10O        10%O     10%        10%         10%        10%       101%0%                                 10%          10°/
(b)  Price escalation            37.2%,        36.6%6/-     25%   24.5%    26.12         23.6°7      18.4%     18.1%         42.9%       41.7%        35.87.      3 .67
III.  Contingency Amounts
(a)  Physical                     353.78      468.9b    27.94    27.95         43.5(0     391.50      24.82    37.23          88.86      266.58       538.90     1,192.22
(822.74)              (55.89)        ~        435.00)                (62.05)               (355.44)                (1,73i.12)
(b)  Price escalation           1,316.21    1,715.43      69.97    68.58      113.54       922.54    45.73      67.48        381.16    1,111.59    1,926.61      3,885.62
(3,031.64)             (138.55)              (1,036.08)               (113.21)             (i,492.75)                (5,812.33)
IV.  Uotal Coatingency Amoiint;    1,6b9.99        2,184.39   97.91      96.53    157.04    1,314.04       70.55    104.71        470.02    1,378.17   2,465.51       5,077.X4
(3,854.38)             (194.44)              (1,471.08)               (175.26)             (1,848.19)                (7,543.35)
V'a)Total Project Cost (I & IV)  5,207.76   6,874.00   377.37   376.00    592.04   5,229.00   318.75   477.00                  1,358.63   4,044.00    7,854.55    17,000.00
(net of taxes and custom           (12.081.76)              (753.37)              (5,821.04)               (795.75)             (5,402.63)               (24,854.55)
duties)
(b)percentage                             48.617%                 3.033                 23.42%                  3.20%                21.74%                   100.00%
1/ Including site development                                                                                                                                                       æ
2/ Including animals                                                                                                                                                                æ
3/ Excluding taxes and duties                                                                                                                                                       x
March 12, 1976
Source: World Bank Mission



ANNEX 10
CAMEROON - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ALLOCATION OF FINANCING BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(US$ thousands)
US$1.00 = CFAF 225
Government     IBRD       % IBRD     Amount
Total   Financing   Financing   Financing  of Taxes
1.  Construction (buildings and  10,525       4,525       6,ooo         57%       3,160
site works)
2.  Furniture                        620        310          310        50%         165
3.  Equipment                      5,090        510       4,580         90%      1,325
4.  Consulting Architeet             66o        265          395        60%          33
5.  Technical Assistance           4,170      1,o4o       3,130         75%         208
6.  Fellowships                       27          7           20        75%           1
7.  Unallocated *                  3,763      1,198       2,565         68%         759
Total     24,855     7,855       17,000         68%      5,651
* To cover unforeseen faetors and price increases
March :L2, 1976
Source: World Bank Mission



CAMEROON  - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE  -  BUILDING WORKS  - FURNITURE  -  EQUIPMENT
Calendar Year                      1 9 7 6          1 9 7 7          1 9 7 8         1 9 7 9          1 9 8 0
FiscaileYar                                19  17           1 9 78        _  19 79            I98
Ref.       Project Item                                    Contract   Area   Base Cos=
Part   N°    and Location                                    Lot No     Sq. M. CFAF Mill.    Qtrs.      3   4                                          2   3   4 I1 i      3   4   1   2
1            preparation for Proiect
I    Appoint_ent Consultant Arch. & Surveyors
II    Schedules of Accommodation (by Bank)                                                      QQQ
III   Brief:  Preparation by Project Architect                                                    B B
IV    Brief:  Approval Bank - Issue Cons. Arch.                                                      A
V     Topograpby/Site 1wvestigation                                                               E EE
A      (i)   Lower Secondary T.chn. School Douala                1        7,490    209                 PFF FAT TT$$AX XCC CCC CC  CCC CCClCCC CRR RR  RRR RRR R
(ii)    "      "        "            Ngaoundere           2       4,323    271                        S SAPIPAF FFF FAT T$$ AXX CCCCCC CCC CC  CCC RR       R RRR RRR
c(i)   AI    Lower Secondary Agric. School Bambili               4A      2,065    122                         S SAP PPP PAF FFF FAT T$$ AXX CCC CCC Ca RRR RER RIR RRR
A2              '        "           Maroua               5A      1,939    146                        S SAP PPp PAF FFF FAT T$$ AXX CCC CCC CC  BRR RRR RRR RRB
A                        "       "  Ebolowa               6A      1,496    100                        S SAPIPPP PAF FFF FAT T$$ AXX CCC CCC CCC CCC RRR RER RRR RR
C(ii)  B1    Upper Secondary Agric. School Bambili               4B      2,077    126                         S SAPiPPP PAF FFF FAT T$$ AXX CCC CCC CCC RRR   RRR RRR
B2      "      "        "        "  Maroua                5B      2,077    155                        S SAP,PPP PAF FFF FAT T$$ AXX CCC CCC CCC RRU RRR RUR RRR
B3      "      "        "        "   Ebolowa              6B      3,118    178                        S SAP:PPP PAF FFF FAT T$$ AXX CCC CCC CCC CCC RRR RER RRR RER
C(iii) Ci    Inst.for Higher Agric.Techn.Traing. Yaoundo         3       4,774    247                         s SAP'PAF FFF VAT TI$  AXx CCc CCC CCC CCC CCC RRR RRR RRR RER
C2A       Field Station  Bambili                          4C        950     57                        S SAP PPP PAF FFF FAT T$$ AXX CCC CCC CCC RUR RER RER RER
C2B                      Maroua                           5C        950     59                        SSAP PPP PAF FFF FAT T$$ AXXCCCC CCC CCC EUR RRR RRRERRR
C2C                "     Ebolova                          6C        950     62                        SISAP PPp PAF FFF FAT T$$ AXX CCC CCC CCC CCC RRER RRRRER R_R
D      1     Rural Health Cenper  North Region                   7         643      38                        S|SAP PPP PAF PFF FAT T$$ AXX|CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC RRRER RRR      RR
2             "      "             Bamenda                8         643     40                        S SAP PPp PAF FFF FAT T$$ AXX|CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC RRR RRR  RR| RRR
3      "      "      "             Batouri                9         643     41                        S SAPPPP  PAF FFF FAT T$$ AXX1CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC RRR RRR RRR RER
2            Furniture & Equiment
(a)  (i)   Schedules Praparation - Review - Approval                                                          MMM   MM MMM MHM|
(ii)  Designs - Preparation - Review - Approval                                                             DD1 DDD'DDD DDD D
(iii) Bidding Doc.   "           "        I.                                                                    GGGIGGG GGG GGG 
I  I   .   Cost            _I__
urn. Eiu P.
(b)   (i)   Bids - Evaluation-Awards-Delivery                  1                28   645                               TT T$$ $XX   HH H1CCC CI
2 & 3             36   192                                               TT$ $$X XlHH HHH CCC
|(iii)  "        "       "         "               | 4ABC-5ABC            34    58                     1                         TT$ $$X XHH CCC
(iv)   "         "                                      6ABC              19    39                                               TT$$Xliii HHH CCC
(v)                                                      7,8,9             6    40                                                   TT$ $$X XH HHH  CCC
a)  Date of effectiveness:  October 31, 1976
Symbol Legend
AAA - Review & approval by Bank                     SSS - Schematic drawings                         $$$ - Bid Evaluation, award                MMM - Furniture,  equipmeot schedules
***- Appointient of Architects                      PPF - Preliminary drawings & estimates           XXX - Contract signing & Mobilization    DDD - Furniture design/Equipent catalogues
QQQ - Schedules of Acco uodation                    FFF - Working drawings, bid doc., Final est.   CCC - construction/supply/delivery           GGG - Bidding documents
B8B - Architectural Brief by project unit           TTT - Bid calling                                RRR - retention period                     HHH - Manufact. of furniture/shipping of
EEE - Site investigation & topography                                                                                                                   Equipment.
March 12, 1976
Source:  World Bank  Mission



ANNEX 12
CAMEROON - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE 0F DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ thousands)
US$1.O0 = CFAF 225
Accumulated         Undisbursed
Fiscal Year     Quarter   Disbursements       Disbursements          Balance
Quarter   Yr.
1977           2*           71                  71               16,929
3          230                 301               16,699
4          165       466       466               16,534
1978           1           522                 988               16,012
2          731               1,719               15,281
3        3,759               5,478               11,522
4        2,022    7,034      7,500                9,500
1979           1         2,910              10,410                6,590
2        2,524              12,934                4,o66
3        1,276              14,210                2,790
4          538    7,248    14,748                 2,252
1980           1           280              15,028                1,972
2          377              15,405                1,595
3          414              15,819                1,181
4          239    1,310    16,058                   942
1981           1           186              16,244                  756
2          186              16,430                  570
3          190              16,620                  380
4          190       752    16,810                  190
1l)82          1           190       190    17,000                    0
*Date of effectiveness: October 31, 1976
March 12, 1976
Source: World Bank Mission



CAMEROON - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursements by Major Category of Expenditure of the IBRD Financing
(in US$ Thousands)
IBRD      Calender Year                       19 7                  1978                    1,79                  1980                    1981
Category of         Financing    Fiscal Year               1977                   1978                 1979                     1980                  1981              1982
Expenditure          Amounts        Quarter         1    2    3    4       1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4          1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2
Construction, Build-
i-n  and Site Work         4,689                                  107     15 2u0  316  671  649 1381  783  296   63   -    84  109   15
Furniture                    279                                              20   13   13   71   67   42   36   15   2
Equipment                  3,915                                              20   - |1808  516  416  696  319  124  16
Consulting Architect         372                            30    40    60  60   60!  601  62
Technical Assistance       2,649                            22    22    46  70  174  124  144  163  237  237  173 173    .73  i73  148  124  124  124  124  124
Fellowships                    17                                                    3   3       3    3    3    J 
Subtotal Base Cost        11,921                            52   169   121 370  516 2679i1445 2030 1761  890  375 DiI   257  282  163  124  1241 124  124  124
Unallocated                5,079                            19    61    ". i52  2I5 1080! 5771 880~ 763  386  163  89   1201 1321  761  62;  62'  66.  66   66
Total Disbursement   | 17,000                               71   230   165 522  73          1 3759 2122|29102524 1276  538 280j 377  414| 2391          186  198  190  190
March 12, l97>
Source:  World Bank Mission






t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4                                       i
:W ~~~~~~~~~~~iS~k.b
,    J           D ffh g  BA OUtS<M
M~~don~bo  ko~g~r .b il  k,
NAA 
M A



