CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1245 T-CM
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Third Education Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 2, 1976


﻿S
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1976, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) The Bank has determined that the Borrower is eligible
to receive this Loan as an intermediate term loan, as that term is
defined in Resolution No. 75.111 of the Executive Directors of the
Bank establishing an Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third Window
(hereinafter called the Fund) and upon the terms and conditions
set forth in such Resolution;
(C) The Administrator of the Fund (hereinafter called the
Administrator), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
the Resolution referred to in (B) above, is obligated to pay to the
Bank semi-annually from the resources of the Fund an amount equal
to four per cent (400) per annum of the outstanding amounts of prin-
cipal on intermediate loans, of which this Loan is one; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "First Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (Education Project) between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, dated September 23, 1969.
(b) "Second Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (Second Education Project) between the Borrower and the
Association, dated June 28, 1972.
(c) "First Education Project" and "Second Education Project"
mean the projects described in Schedule 2 to the First Credit
Agreement and the Second Credit Agreement, respectively.


﻿-4-
(d) "Project Unit" means the unit established Dursuant to
Section 4.01(d) of the First Credit Agreement and whose responsi-
bilities, powers and services have been set forth in Schedule 5 to
the Second Credit Agreement.
(e) "Project Unit Director" means the director of the Project
Unit.
(f) "ENSA" means the Ecole Nationale SRpgrieure Agronomiaue
of the University of Yaoundg.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million
dollars ($17,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a comitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn fran time
to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of four and one-half per cent (4-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time;
provided, however, that if the Administrator shall at any time
determine that the resources of the Fund shall not be sufficient
to pay to the Bank at the next succeeding semi-annual interest
payment date of the Loan the amount scheduled to be paid by the
Administrator at that interest payment date as specified in para-
graph (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement, the Borrower shall,
upon notification by the Administrator of such determination and
the amount of the resulting shortfall, pay additional interest
on such principal amount of the Loan equal to such shortfall.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿7!
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Project Unit with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical
and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) For the purposes of the day-to-day supervision of con-
struction, procurement and administration of the Project, the
Borrower shall expand and maintain the Project Unit with respon-
sibilities, powers and personnel satisfactory to the Bank. In
particular, the Project Unit Director shall be made responsible
for (i) coordination with the Borrower's ministries, departments
and agencies involved in the Project, (ii) supervision of Project
implementation, (iii) liaison with the Bank with respect to the
Project, and (iv) collection and preparation of data necessary
for a project completion report.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
design, planning and supervision of the construction of all insti-
tutions included in the Project and in carrying out Parts A (ii),
B9 C, D and E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-8-
(b) The Borrower shall cause all the periodical or special
reports prepa:ed by such specialists to be submitted, promptly
after their completion, to the Bank for its review and comments.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Proj-
ect; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan


﻿-9-
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods, works and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall select the sites, as
shall be required for the Project, in concurrence with the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such
land and rights in respect of such sites and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of such sites are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. To ensure that the formal technical training
system will be responsive to the actual needs of local industry
and business, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain
a governing board for each of the schools included in Parts (A)
(i) and A (ii) of the Project; the definition of the Governing
Board's responsibilities, powers and composition shall be satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.07. (a) In order to continue the development of
programs of agricultural education and to supervise their imple-
mentation, the Borrower shall implement by December 31, 1976 or
such other date as the Bank shall agree, measures necessary to
strengthen its Ministry of Agriculture's capacity to carry out the
above functions in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in establishing targets,
standards and policies for the higher technician training program
included in Part (C)(iii) of the Project, the upper secondary agri-
cultural schools included in Part (C)(ii) of the Project and the
lower secondary agricultural schools included in Part (C)(i) of
the Project, the Borrover shall complete the measures necessary to
establish, on or before December 31, 1976 or such other date as
the Bank shall agree, and thereafter maintain a National Committee
for Agricultural and Rural Education with composition, powers and
responsibilities, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall establish within ENSA,
and thereafter maintain in operation the Institute for the Train-
ing of Higher Technicians in Agriculture and Livestock (Institut
des Techniques Agricoles) referred to in Part (C)(iii) of the Proj-
ect under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. In particu-
lar, the Borrower shall take all appropriate measures to ensure
that such Institute enjoys budgetary and administrative autonomy.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that ENSA allocates to the
said Institut such part of the normal teaching time of the teachers
of ENSA as shall be required each year by the said Institut cur-
rently estimated at about 500 hours.
Section 3.09. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1977, (i) establish at ENSA
an agricultural teacher training program for teachers to be as-
signed to the Lower Secondary Agricultural Schools, the Upper


﻿- 11 -
Secondary Agricultural Schools and the Institut des Techniques
Agricoles, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and
(ii) make recommendations for the Bank's review and comments on
measures designed to make the career of agricultural teachers
attractive; and
(b) after having received the Bank's comments and, in all
events, not later than December 31, 1978, implement the recommen-
dations mutually agreed between the Bank and the Borrower pursuant
to subparagraph (a)(ii) above.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans
to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal
circumstances, specific security from the member concerned but to
ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over its
loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which will
or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of
such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and
ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation
of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets
of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the Bor-
rower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 13 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operat-
ing for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdi-
vision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the buildings,
furniture and equipment of the educational institutions included
in the Project be maintained at all times according to sound tech-
nical policies and practices, that all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof be made promptly as needed and that adequate
maintenance records be kept by the departments and agencies of the
Borrower responsible for such maintenance, repairs and renewals.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the educational insti-
tutions included in the Project to be so operated as to promote


﻿- 14-
the educational objectives of the Borrower and to be staffed at
all times with experienced and qualified personnel in adequate
nunibers.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions, namely that:
(a) the Borrower shall have made arrangements to expand the
Project Unit (including expansion of the Project Unit Director's
responsibilities), as indicated in Section 3.01 (b) hereof; and
(b) for the purpose of undertaking the design of Parts A
(ii), C and D of the Project, the Borrower shall have entered
into a contract with the relevant consultants referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) hereof, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank which shall include, inter alia, a timetable accept-
able to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date October 4, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Planning
of the Borrower is desigaated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Planning
Yaoundg
United Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINEP                              8268 KN
Yaound, Cameroon
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington,                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿IIS                           -17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Eric D. Quan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ X. de la Renaudiere
Director
Country Programs Department
Western Africa Regional Office


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expend-
itures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                6,000,000          57% (representing
the foreign ex-
change component)
(2) Equipment                  4,580,ooo          100% of foreign
expenditures for
imported goods
or 75% if locally
procured
(3) Furniture                    310,000          100% of foreign
expenditures for
imported goods
or 75% if locally
procured
(4) Consultants'
Services and
Fellowships
(a) Architectural           395,000          60% of total
Consultants                              expenditures


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(b) Other Con-            3,150,000         75% of total
sultants'                               expenditures
Services and
fellowships
(5) Unallocated               2,565,000
TOTAL     17,000,000


﻿- 20 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Bor-
rower is also that of another country from the territory of which
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for
such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";
and
(b) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of
foreign expenditures and of expenditures for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures:


﻿- 21 -
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that: (i)
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $50,000 may be made in respect of Category 4 (a) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1976; and (ii) withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $250,000 may be made in respect of
Category (1) on account of payments made for such expenditures be-
fore that date but after January 1, 1976;
(b) with respect to any school included in Parts A (i) or in
A (ii) of the Project, until the Borrower shall have established
the governing board for such school in accordance with the provi-
sions of Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement;
(c) with respect to Part B, until the Borrower shall have
implemented the measures necessary to strengthen its Ministry of
Agriculture in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.07 (a)
of the Loan Agreement;
(d) with respect to Part C(iii) of the Project, until the
Borrower shall have established the Institute referred to in Part
C (iii) of the Project and shall have issued the regulation giving
the said Institute administrative and budgetary autonomy pursuant
to the provisions of Section 3.08 (a) of the Loan Agreement; and
(e) with respect to Part E (i) of the Project until the Bor-
rower shall have furnished to the Bank terms of reference, satis-
factory to the Bank for the studies included in such Part E (i).


﻿- 22 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
7.   If the Borrower does not fulfill the conditions of disburse-
ments set forth in paragraphs 4 (b), 4 (c), 4 (d) or 4 (e) of
this Schedule on or before December 31, 1979, or such other date


﻿- 23 -
as the Bank shall agree, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with re-
spect to the Part of the Project corresponding to such condition.
Upon the giving of such notice the amount of the Loan corresponding
to such Part of the Project, as determined by the Bank, shall be
cancelled.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Construction, equipment, furniture and, for item
(ii) only, technical assistance for:
(i) a lower secondary technical school ("Collge
d'Enseignement Technique") in Douala, includ-
ing a training section for lower secondary
workshop teachers; and
(ii) a lower secondary technical school ("Coll4ge
d'Enseignement Technique") in Ngaoundgrg.
Part B:   Technical Assistance to strengthen the Ministry
of Agriculture's capacity to continue the develop-
ment of programs of agricultural education and to
supervise their implementation.
Part C:   Construction, equipment and furniture for admin-
istrative, academic and dormitory buildings and
staff housing, and technical assistance for:
( ) expanding and improving two existing lower
secondary agricultural schools at Ebolowa
and Maroua and establishing a lower secon-
dary agricultural school at Bambili;


﻿-25-
(ii) expanding and improving the regional upper
secondary agricultural school at Bambili,
and establishing two regional upper secondary
agricultural schools at Ebolowa and Maroua
(all such schools to be located on the same
sites as those of the schools referred to in
Part C (i) above); and
(iii) establishing the Institute for the Training
of Higher Technicians in Agriculture and
Livestock (Institut des Techniques Agricoles)
on the ENSA campus at Nkolbisson for training
higher technicians in agriculture and live-
stock, including the development of a 25-
hectare farm and three field stations at sites
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
Part D:   Construction, equipment and furniture for three
rural clinics with dozmitory facilities for the
medical teams of the University Center for Health
Sciences (Centre Univercitaire des Sciences de la
Santg-CUSS), in the regions of Bambili, Batouri
and Ngaoundgrg, for improving the rural health
training program of CUSS.
Part E:   Technical assistance for:
(i) pre-investment studies and preliminary design work
for a further education project; and


﻿- 26 -
(ii) project implementation - a procurement specialist,
an architect and a civil engineer.
*         *         *         *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)
January 15, 1983                                     300,000
July 15, 1983                                        305,000
January 15, 1984                                     315,000
July 15, 1984                                        320,000
January 15, 1985                                     325,000
July 15, 1985                                        335,000
January 15, 1986                                     340,000
July 15, 1986                                        350,000
January 15, 1987                                     360,000
July 15, 1987                                        365,000
January 15, 1988                                     375,000
July 15, 1988                                        380,000
January 15, 1989                                     390,000
July 15, 1989                                        400,000
January 15, 1990                                     410,000
July 15, 1990                                        420,000
January 15, 1991                                     425,000
July 15, 1991                                        435,000
January 15, 1992                                     445,000
July 15, 1992                                        455,000
January 15, 1993                                     465,000
July 15, 1993                                        480,000
January 15, 1994                                     490,000
July 15, 1994                                        500,000
January 15, 1995                                     510,000
July 15, 1995                                        520,000
January 15, 1996                                     535,000
July 15, 1996                                        545,000


﻿- 28 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)
January 15, 1997                                     560,000
July 15, 1997                                        570,000
January 15, 1998                                     585,000
July 15, 1998                                        595,000
January 15, 1999                                     610,000
July 15, 1999                                        625,000
January 15, 2000                                     640,000
July 15, 2000                                        650,000
January 15, 2001                                     670,000


﻿- 29 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                          5-1/2%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                    7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity                        8%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, the goods and works shall
be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   (a) Bidders for the works specified in Category (1) of Sched-
ule 1 shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part
A of the Guidelines.
(b) Goods specified in Categories (2) and (3) of Schedule 1
shall be procured in packages of at least $20,000 equivalent.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Farm animals, small agricultural implements, and other equip-
ment which are not suitable for competitive bidding or cannot be
grouped in packages of at least $20,000 equivalent may be procured
locally on the basis of quotations following local procedures
acceptable to the Bank; provided that contracts for such purchases
shall not exceed in the aggregate $300,000 equivalent over the
duration of the Project.


﻿-31-
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Cameroon may be granted a margin of
nreference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Borrower's territory if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and


﻿- 32 -
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Borrover's
territory equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manu-
factured in Borrower's territory.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A or a group C bid
in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award.


﻿-33-
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category 1 of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agree-
ment, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the fol-
lowing provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying
also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part of the
information for qualification, to submit together with their bids,
such information, including details of ownership, as shall be re-
quired to determine whether, according to the classification estab-
lished by the Borrower and accepted by the Bank, a particular firm
or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and


﻿- 3)4 -
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qual-
ification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said pro-
cedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequal-
ified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference
under Part D.1 above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification and for such eligibility shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the
applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, equipment and
furniture estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and


﻿- 35 -
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the


﻿- 36 -
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


