OFFICIA          NUMBER 2450 ME
DOCUI
ESP Project Agreement
(Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Port Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SERVICIOS PORTUARIOS DE LAZARO CARDENAS, S.A. DE C.V.
Dated                                , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2450 ME
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RCONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and SERVICIOS PORTUARIOS DE LAZARO
CARDENAS, S.A. DE C.V. (hereinafter called ESP).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and BANCO NACIONAL PESQUERO Y PORTUARIO, S.A.
(hereinafter called the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to lend to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy-six million three hundred thousand dollars ($76,300,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that ESP agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS ESP, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ESP declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Guarantee
Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out Parts B and E (ii)
and (iv) of the Project described in said Schedule, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices.
(b) ESP shall enter into the contractual arrangements
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement. Except as


﻿- 2 -
the Bank shall otherwise agree, ESP shall not amend or fail to
enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.
Section 2.02. In order to assist ESP in carrying out Part E
(ii) and (iv) of the Project, ESP shall, as and when appropriate,
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods required for Part B of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) ESP undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower   against   hazards   incident    to   the  acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by ESP to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) ESP shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to
be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) ESP shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the technical designs, specifications,
contract documents and procurement schedules for Part B of the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) ESP shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts B and E (ii) and (iv)
of the Project (including their cost and the achievement of the
objectives of such Parts of the Project), to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to
disclose  their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds


﻿-3-
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank reports on the progress of Parts B      and E
(ii) and (iv) of the Project with a periodicity acceptable to the
Bank, and from time to time, all such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning such Parts of the
Project, their cost, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by ESP of any contract for goods or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) ESP shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of ESP and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. (a) ESP shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts
B and E (ii) and (iv) of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
(b) ESP shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Parts B and E (ii) and (iv) of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by ESP of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. ESP shall: (i) not later than September 15,
1985, present to the Bank the conclusions of the study included
in Part E (iv) of the Project; and (ii) exchange views with the
Bank on the conclusions of such study and on an action plan for
their implementation, taking into account such exchange of views.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ESP
Section  3.01.   ESP  shall  carry   on  its  operations   in
accordance with sound administrative, and financial practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management.


﻿-4-
Section 3.02. ESP shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices.
Section 3.03. ESP shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ESP shall maintain separate accounts and
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently-
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
receipts and payments for or in connection with carrying out
Parts B, and E (ii) and (iv) of the Project including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
(b) ESP shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. ESP shall:
(a) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing,


﻿- 5 -
separate opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as
to whether the proceeds of the Loan made available to it and
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ESP shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal
year ending in 1986, total revenues equivalent to not less than
the sum of its (i) total operating expenses; and (ii) the amount
by which debt service requirements exceed the provision for
depreciation.  ESP shall produce for its fiscal years ending in
1985 and 1986 total revenues equivalent to not less than its
total working expenses for each such year, respectively.
(b) Before the end of each of its fiscal years, ESP shall,
on the basis of its forecasts, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank
the results of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that ESP would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for ESP's fiscal years
covered by such review, ESP shall, as appropriate, take all
necessary measures   (including proposals   to the Guarantor to
adjust the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet
such requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "total revenues" means the sum of total
operating revenues and net non-operating income.
(ii) The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations.
(iii) The term   "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:


﻿-6-
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.
(iv) The term    "total operating expenses" means all
expenses related to operations, including admin-
istration, adequate maintenance, taxes and pay-
ments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
depreciation on a straight-line basis for the
useful life of ESP's    fixed assets in operation,
as valued from time to time in accordance with
sound and consistently maintained methods of
valuation,   but  excluding  interest   and  other
charges on debt.
(v) The term "total working expenses" means the total
operating expenses, as so defined, less deprecia-
tion and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes.
(vi) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments of, and interest
and other charges on, debt.
(vii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿- 7 -
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of ESP thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify ESP thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ESP:
Servicios Portuarios de Lazaro
Cardenas, S.A. de C.V.
Rio Tepalcatepec No. 29
Puerto Industrial de Lazaro C'rdenas
Michoacan
Mexico


﻿-8-
Telex:
01772873 CPLCME
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ESP may be taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons as its Director
General shall designate in writing, and ESP shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the .District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SERVICIOS PORTUARIOS DE LAZARO CARDENAS, S.A.
DE C.V.
ByeA
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this     -    day of       , 198   .
FOR SECRETARY


