Report No. PID6231
Project Name                     Mali-National Rural Infrastructure Project (@
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Irrigation & Drainage; Rural Roads;
Other Environment;
Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
Project ID                       MLPE41723
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF MALI
Implementing Agency              Address: MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
OVERALL COORDINATION
Ministere du Developpement Rural
Contact Person: Mr. Yaya Diarra
Tel: (223) 22 91 74
Fax: (223) 22 02 95
Email: PNIR@datatech.toolnet.org
Environment Category             B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                May 19, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February 7, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 22, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
2.1 Main Sector Issues
Irrigation Infrastructure
5.      Perhaps the most binding constraint to Mali's agricultural
production is the limited amount and unreliability of rainfall
which, coupled with increasing desertification, has left an
estimated 1.4 million rural residents vulnerable to food
shortages, prompting the Malian government to place greater
emphasis on irrigated agriculture. However, irrigation
development is constrained by several factors including the
following.
6.      Lack of irrigation development financing.   This has left
government as the sole investor in the irrigation sector on any
significant scale. Given government's limited resources (mainly
from donors), the pace of irrigation development has been very
slow.
7.      High cost of irrigation development.   This is largely due
to, among other things, a limited number of contractors (almost
all foreign), an irregular volume of work, and technical
difficulties in some regions of Mali, e.g. the need for
constructing protection dikes against floods and sand dunes in
the upper Niger valley.



8.      Poor irrigation infrastructure maintenance.   Although recent
institutional reforms in the large schemes have resulted in
improved performance For example, Office du Niger, Office Riz
Mopti, Office Riz Segou., farmer-managed smaller perimeters still
suffer from limited managerial skills, non-systematic application
of technical norms making maintenance difficult and use of
equipment that are difficult to service locally, usually
purchased at the behest of the financial backers.
9.      Limited access to markets and agricultural services.    Poor
road access (see paragraph 13 below), limited access to input
credit and other agricultural services (extension, input
supply), particularly on small schemes, have resulted in low
yields and poor revenue, and consequently very limited
maintenance and amortization of the irrigation infrastructure.
10.     Limited sector planning and monitoring capacity.    The line
ministry's sector monitoring capacity is weak due to lack of
training, logistics, and poor remuneration.   In addition, under
the new decentralization legal code, rural infrastructure will be
under the auspices of the nascent local governments whose fiscal,
technical, and managerial capacity is still very weak.
11.     Environmental degradation.   This is an increasing concern,
particularly with regard to the prevalence of water-related
diseases (especially malaria, bilharzia and diarrhea), the
potential for aquifer pollution from chemical fertilizers and
pesticides, a threat of long-term increased soil salinity and
alkalinity, and increasing pressure on local grazing land around
some schemes.
Roads
16.     Low network density.   Mali's vast territory and a relatively
small population notwithstanding, the density of the all year
round road network, estimated at 0.9 km - 1.5 km/100 km2 is low
compared to 3.1 km/100 km2 in the sub-region, and 4.7 km/100 km2
for the whole of Africa. This, combined with the road network's
very poor state, has had a very negative effect on rural incomes
as demonstrated by the high transport charges incurred by rural
communities (CFAF 100/ton/km on good feeder roads, CFAF
500/ton/km on poor tracks, and only CFAF 30/ton/km on paved
roads).
17.     Poor clarity of responsibility.   Since GOM's resources for
road investment and maintenance are insufficient for the
country's needs, other agencies, often with divergent interests,
have stepped in, especially for the rural road network. For
instance, the maintenance of part of the feeder road network was
(and to some extent still is) the responsibility of rural
development agencies operating in the locality. These agencies,
which very often had a marketing monopoly for the major local
produce (cotton, peanuts, tobacco, rice) could impose a surcharge
on the producer price offered, thus generating resources for road
maintenance. With the collapse of most of these agencies, and
- 2 -



the subsequent commodity price and marketing liberalization
(except for cotton), the planning, financing, and maintenance of
feeder roads, as for most rural infrastructure, became an
unbearable burden for those agencies. In the absence of formal,
efficient institutional arrangements between them and the central
government, the latter could not take full responsibility for
this added network.
18.     In addition, many projects have built transport
infrastructure as a secondary means to achieve their development
objectives, but very often without any clear advance maintenance
arrangements, just the expectation that the central government
would carry it out. Consequently, many major roads are neither
gazetted nor maintained, or their maintenance depends on
institutions with no accountability to any representative
administrative authorities, which leads to their rapid
deterioration with limited possibility of any recourse to road
users. The new decentralization code provides for the transfer
of this responsibility to the central and local governments. Yet
the road network has still not been reclassified to adequately
reflect this policy direction, nor have the requisite sources of
funds for their maintenance been clearly identified.
19.     Low budgetary allocation and poor resource utilization.    In
general, inadequate provision is made for routine maintenance of
the main network in the central budget (less than 25% of routine
maintenance needs). "Main network" has to be understood here as
the 12,000km or so of roads, which form the backbone of the road
network in Mali. It comprises most (but not all) of the
classified network and major unclassified roads. Those roads are
of either national or regional importance because of the traffic
they support. This is compounded by poor utilization of these
resources due to delays in their release, and slow contracting
processes, which frequently miss the between-rainy-season window
ideal for carrying out road maintenance. Therefore, most roads
are in a sorry state of disrepair and neglect. Similarly, there
is no significant road rehabilitation and new investment,
particularly at levels beyond the main network. Yet this bottom
end of the network is critical economically by providing the link
between farms and primary markets and socially by providing
access to social infrastructure such as schools or primary health
centers. Villages that are not on the main network (the vast
majority) make do with ad hoc structures designed by themselves
or with some NGO support.
20.     Limited local private capacity.   The tradition in Mali has
so far entailed designing transport infrastructure with
relatively high standards, which has often led to the recourse to
either force account works or contracting out to major
international contractors. Consequently, there is only a small
number of local entrepreneurs with the adequate equipment and
skills to carry out periodic or even routine road maintenance
(let alone major rehabilitation or new construction.)
Rural water supply and sanitation
-3-



21.     Limited access to clean drinking water.   Less than 40t of
the rural population have access to safe drinking water, with
most rural communities typically relying on contaminated water
available from traditional sources (shallow wells, swamps and
creeks), and often at long distances from dwelling places. With
domestic consumption of less than 10 liters per day per capita,
needs are still considerable.
22.     Top-down programming of investments.   Despite some recent
improvements, rural water supply in Mali continues to suffer from
top-down investment programming, with inadequate levels of
community participation in project identification and investment
choice. Assessment of beneficiary commitment (e.g. willingness
to contribute to capital costs) has not been systematic, and has
been totally absent in some cases, resulting in poor beneficiary
ownership, and consequently poor maintenance leading to long down
time of water facilities and very often abandonment of the
infrastructure.
23.     Inadequate maintenance.   This problem has often been
compounded by: (i) inadequate beneficiary consultation as cited
above; (ii) poor beneficiary organization for, and training in,
water facility management, including levying user fees adequate
for equipment maintenance and replacement; and (iii) the
prevalence of ill-adapted equipment pushed by some donors that
cannot be easily serviced locally, leading to the abandonment of
hundreds of boreholes for lack of spare parts on the local
market. (Mali suffers from a multiplicity of hand-pump technology
imposed on the country by various ESAs that has often not been
supported by long-term supply of spares and maintenance services
and consequently resulting in a large breakdown rate for
handpumps (30 - 40%) and indeed most of   the handpumps cannot be
repaired because the pumps are now obsolete and no longer in
production)
24.     Insufficient local private sector capacity.    This is still
wanting at all levels of project development (for carrying out
beneficiary sensitization and training programs, and technical
studies and civil works), resulting in a reliance on costly
international firms for almost all aspects of rural water supply
and sanitation development.
25.     Inadequate sector monitoring and support.    There is need to
decentralize DNH's sector monitoring and sector support functions
to levels closer to their rural clients. Local Government
structures have not been involved in sector activities and
consequently have no capacity to support their communities to
sustain their water supply and sanitation facilities.
26.     Poor integration with hygiene.   Investments in the sector
have mainly been in the provision of water supply infrastructure
while rural sanitation and hygiene education have been ignored
without any intervention by most sector projects.
2.2 Government Strategy
-4-



Irrigation Infrastructure
27.     Lack of irrigation development financing.   Up until
recently, GOM financed the entire cost of irrigation development
on a turnkey basis, with beneficiaries only financially
responsible for the entire, or sometimes only part of the,
maintenance needs. The new GOM strategy aims at accelerating
irrigation development in Mali by leveraging Government's limited
investment resources (i) by ensuring that beneficiaries are fully
responsible for all operation and maintenance charges, (ii) by
transferring all responsibility for tertiary infrastructure
development usually done by hand to beneficiaries (resulting in
15-20% savings to government), Farmers have the option of doing
the work physically or making a cash payment. In the context of
the recently closed Office du Niger project, a test was carried
out which demonstrated that farmers could physically construct
tertiary canals, a move that would save government some 15-20% of
the irrigation development cost, thus releasing resources for
redeployment in further irrigation development. (iii) through
beneficiary contribution to capital cost beyond tertiary
infrastructure (the so-called "Lease-Purchase" arrangement),
and (iv) through greater private sector involvement in irrigation
development. GOM will continue to be financially responsible for
primary irrigation infrastructure development (dams, principal
canals), with beneficiaries participating in the development of
the remaining infrastructure as follows:
(a) "Lease- Purchase"  Arrangement.    The government will finance
primary infrastructure development as its contribution. In
addition, it will pre-finance the secondary infrastructure,
although this portion will have to be fully reimbursed by
beneficiaries over several years to facilitate easy payment. The
proceeds will be used solely for further irrigation development.
Beneficiaries would receive full land ownership with land titles
after full payment. This strategy will benefit those individuals
with a strong interest in farming but who are unable to arrange
their own financing for irrigation development in the absence of
long term lending by local banks (e.g. the poor), while allowing
for rapid irrigation expansion based on domestic resources.
(b)     Increased private sector investment.   In the context of the
ongoing World Bank-financed Private Irrigation Promotion Project,
the government is facilitating individual investors, mainly those
operating in peri-urban areas and frequently on small plots of
land, to acquire land titles, develop investment plans, and
prepare loan applications for possible financing by local banks.
Under the new strategy, however, government is taking this
initiative further by attracting private investors to large
schemes like ON. Contrary to the "lease-purchase" initiative,
private investors with adequate personal resources or access to
(most likely external) long term credit would in this case
finance the remaining infrastructure (secondary and tertiary
canals, and land leveling) on their own, upon which they would
receive full land ownership with land titles.
- 5 -



(c)     Community irrigation perimeters.   Among small scale,
community irrigation schemes where household land holding
averages a mere quarter of a hectare or less, and auto-
consumption is a significant share of total production, which,
coupled with high amortization costs for pumping equipment,
leaves little disposable income, no cash contributions to capital
cost beyond manual tertiary infrastructure construction and land
leveling, would be sought.
28.     High cost of irrigation development.   GOM strategy calls for
promoting: (i) (cheaper) local firms through training, packaging
contracts in smaller lot sizes, and encouraging partnerships with
foreign firms; and (ii) cheaper alternative irrigation methods
and equipment. GOM is in the process of creating an autonomous
public works execution agency (the Agence d'Execution de Travaux
d'Infrastructures et d'Equipements Ruraux or AGETIER), following
the model of its successful urban counterpart, AGETIPE Mali.
AGETIPE's experience has shown that the use of an executing
agency with streamlined administrative and payment procedures,
and a strong training program in participatory techniques and
procurement methods, can work as an effective catalyst for the
emergence and strengthening of small-scale contractors (see Annex
2 for details about AGETIER).
29.     Poor irrigation infrastructure maintenance.    GOM strategy
calls for: (i) limiting irrigation perimeters to sizes manageable
by the local communities (maximum 30 ha); (ii) ensuring greater
ownership through a demand-driven approach and increased
beneficiary participation in infrastructure planning, financing,
and management; (iii) beneficiary training programs in
maintenance programming and execution, input purchase and output
marketing; (iv) updating, and ensuring the application of,
technical norms; (v) promoting locally adapted equipment; and
(vi) greater involvement of local institutions (NGOs, private
sector, etc.) in providing support services to irrigators.
30.     Limited access to agricultural services and inadequate
sector planning and monitoring capacity. GOM intends to promote
local savings and credit associations for providing farm input
credit (IDA support for this initiative to be provided through
the Financial Sector Support Operation under preparation, FY00)
(Some of these associations are beginning to leverage their
limited resources through refinancing by commercial banks, as is
increasingly the case at) ON.. GOM is also preparing a program
(PASAOP) for rationalizing and decentralizing MDR core services,
reinforcing capacity through training and basic equipment,
improving the efficiency and relevance of the national extension
and research systems, and for strengthening and empowering
producer organizations in the design and execution of
agricultural support services. The weak planning and supervisory
capacity of the recently created local governments will be
addressed through a training program for elected officials,
accompanied by an investment program (Fonds d'Investissement
Local) for reinforcing the acquired skills and building
confidence in the decentralization and community empowerment
- 6 -



program with major support from donors, most notably the French
Cooperation and European Union.
Roads
32.     Responsibility clarification.   GOM has started the process
of designing a new national rural transport strategy aimed at
clarifying responsibilities and procedures regarding road
construction and maintenance at each level, from the main network
(national/primary and feeder roads) to local roads, and is
preparing a major road reclassification study that will
facilitate the assigning of road responsibility to the different
levels of government. (Initial support to GOM for elaborating the
strategy was provided by the Rural Travel and Transport Program
which is part of the Sub-Saharan Transport Policy Program (SSATP)
) Both the reclassification study and the strategy should settle
once and for all the question of road construction and
maintenance by third parties, with the funding principle of there
not being any "owner" of transport infrastructure besides the
central and local governments. All existing and future transport
infrastructure would, therefore, fall in the portfolio of one
specific government. Contracts would be signed to concede the
whole or part of the maintenance from those governments to third
parties (such as rural development agencies).
33.     It is expected that in the short run, local governments will
have limited human and financial capacity to effectively carry
out their new obligations. Therefore, the strategy will call for
greater technical support to these local governments and
communities by the Regional Directorates of Public Works in
organizing and implementing road maintenance. Local communities
will have to mobilize their own resources both for construction
and maintenance of small, local rural roads (e.g. through user
charges, physical community participation). They will also
benefit from financial support from the central government
through matching grants under stringent conditions. As stated in
paragraph 27 above, GOM is working out programs together with its
development partners to strengthen local governments' planning,
and resource mobilization capacity.
34.     Increased and better utilization of resources for road
routine maintenance. A privately managed Road Maintenance Fund
will be set up to mobilize and manage the utilization of
resources for routine maintenance of the main network (both
primary and feeder roads) with a formula to ensure that feeder
roads get a fair share of the fund's resources. A study is
planned for assessing annual maintenance needs for the main road
network, based upon which the corresponding financial resources
will be determined. This will facilitate the determination of
the level of the fuel surcharge and a road user fee to levy. The
road maintenance fund will set priorities within a partnership
framework between the road maintenance fund, the regional road
directorates and the communities. At the local level, it is
expected that the strategy will transfer the bulk of the routine
and periodic maintenance to local governments and communities.
-7 -



Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
1.      Investment programming and infrastructure maintenance.
Drawing on past experience, GOM's updated strategy (adopted in
March 2000) calls for increased access to, and sustained use of,
clean rural water supply facilities, maximizing their impact by
combining their use with sanitation programs, and ensuring that
future sector investments are demand driven. The basic tenets
underpinning the strategy are: (a) decentralization of the
decision-making process at all stages of the rural water supply
and sanitation (RWSS) project cycle regarding project
identification and investment choice implying that the DNH or
the RWSS projects will no longer decide in advance which
communities receive water or sanitation facilities, but rather,
communities in need of such facilities would initiate a request
to their local government representative in a bottom-up approach;
(b) demonstrated beneficiary commitment to such facilities by
their willingness to contribute toward capital cost; (c) greater
beneficiary training in RWSS management, operation and
maintenance (including preventive maintenance); (d) exclusive use
of technology/equipment most adapted to local conditions; and (e)
reduction in construction and maintenance costs.
2.      Private sector capacity building.   Under the new strategy,
the State will play a facilitating role in the sector's
development, through phased withdrawal from direct provision of
goods and services and ensuring a systematic recourse to the
private sector for studying, constructing, maintaining and
operating rural facilities, with special emphasis on promoting
the local private sector's capacity to deliver these services.
3.      Decentralized support and sector monitoring.    Decentralized
local government structures shall be responsible for
implementation and supporting sustained operation of RWSS
programs for their constituencies through a systematic capacity
building program to enable them carry out such activities.
Environmental and Social Protection
4.      GOM has set up a national and regional directorates for
nature conservation which will be responsible for coordinating
the implementation of its recently adopted National Environmental
Action Plan, that calls for, among other things, water and soil
quality monitoring and controlling of water-associated diseases
(including provision of clean drinking water).
2. Objectives
A2. Project Development Objective (see Annex 1)
1.      Phase I will assist the Malian government in attaining the
program purpose by supporting the redefinition of roles of the
different players involved in the facilitation and/or provision
and management of rural infrastructure, improving stakeholders'
capacities, and putting in place effective mechanisms to plan,
- 8 -



finance and manage infrastructure. As stated above, this will
include: pilots in cost recovery based irrigation development
financing mechanisms, and increased private sector involvement in
irrigation development; testing and refining the demand-driven,
decentralized approach to delivering rural water supply and
sanitation programs; putting in place a road maintenance fund and
completing the national rural transportation strategy; and
promoting local firms for better service delivery to rural
clients. In testing out these mechanisms and clarifying
institutional responsibilities, the project will also enhance
household incomes and general welfare through priority
investments in irrigation development (8,714 ha), feeder road
rehabilitation (472 km), and water supply development (1,300
water facilities) and sanitation programs.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Building on its experience in supporting rural infrastructure
programs in over 30 countries, the Bank has assisted the Malian
government in the preparation, and will continue to assist it in
the implementation, of comprehensive strategies for irrigation
development, rural transportation, and rural water supply and
sanitation. The Bank will assist the Borrower to create synergy
through a more effective coordination of all the donors
intervening in these sectors. Recent reforms at ON, while far
reaching and already bearing fruit in terms of increased farm
productivity and better infrastructure maintenance, still need
naturing and consolidating which will be achieved through further
capacity building for ON and its farmers under this project.
The Bank will assist GOM in leveraging its limited resources
through greater beneficiary contribution to, and increased
private sector participation in, irrigation development. The
Bank will also continue to work with government on maintaining an
open and stable rice policy.
4. Description
I. Irrigation
A) Large Scale Irrigation Development at Office du Niger
1.      Pilot on New Irrigation Financing Mechanism (US$4.2) Amounts
in parentheses are for all financiers added together. . The long
term objective is to have an autonomous, self-financing,
privately managed, irrigation development agency, responsible for
irrigated land development and collection of repayments from
beneficiaries for further use in irrigation development as
described in paragraph 24(a) above. Although preliminary
assessments attest to its feasibility, NRIP-I will finance a
pilot to refine the concept in a real setting before its
nationwide application through the following activities.
(i)     Institutional set-up (US$ 0.7 million). Studies and
workshops will be carried out to define the detailed contours of
such an agency, including its capital and managerial structure,
- 9-



its contractual arrangements with beneficiaries, and procedures
for the recovery and use of beneficiaries' repayments (this study
to be carried during the first year of the project). Terms of
Reference acceptable to IDA for refining these modalities were
reviewed at appraisal and will be finalized before negotiations.
(ii)    Development of a test irrigation perimeter (US$ 3.5
million). The project will finance the construction of all
primary and secondary infrastructure and major land leveling
corresponding to 467 ha on which these arrangements will be
tested. It will be completed in the third year of the project,
and the very first of a series of repayment installments will be
made during the fourth year. Managing such a limited test does
not warrant the creation of a full fledged agency at this time.
Consequently, only a small unit will be set up within ON to
manage this test whose operating costs will be supported by the
project. A full fledged agency will only be considered for NRIP-
II if this approach is judged promising at the end of NRIP-I.
2.      Private Sector Irrigation Development Pilot (US$ 4.4
million). IDA will only finance the construction of the primary
infrastructure sufficient for 507 ha, with all secondary and
tertiary infrastructure, and land leveling to be completed by
private investors themselves (at a cost of US$ 2.1 million).
Criteria for applicant selection, as well as the terms and
conditions of settlement on, and use of, this land have been
drafted, to be completed before negotiations. The project will
also finance the development of an additional 280 ha for the
local population as compensation for loss of the traditional use
of the land to be developed by the private sector and under the
"lease-purchase" mechanism, according to arrangements discussed
in Section E5.
3.      Other irrigation development activities at ON.    In addition
to the above pilots, the project will finance the following
activities at ON:
(i)     Sokolo Perimeter Rehabilitation (US$ 28.9 million). This 30
year old irrigation perimeter of 5,850 ha is severely degraded,
particularly the drainage system, and in dire need of major
rehabilitation. The project will finance the rehabilitation of
all primary and secondary infrastructure and major land leveling,
with beneficiaries responsible for tertiaries.
(ii)    M'Bewani Perimeter Completion (US$ 6.5 million). The first
part of this perimeter (1,700 ha) was developed under previous
IDA and Dutch financing. IDA will now finance the completion of
the distributor and its corresponding drain (US$ 3.4 million)
and the Dutch cooperation will provide parallel financing for
completing the secondary canals and major land leveling (US$ 2.0
million) for the remaining 1,300 ha.
(iii)   Canal Costes-Ongoiba Expansion (US$ 7.0 million). IDA
will finance the enlargement and deepening of the Costes-Ongoiba
canal (19 km) which serves the existing sugar plantations at
- 10 -



Dougabougou and Siribara, the M'Bewani irrigation perimeter and
its planned extensions, as well as the Koumouna perimeter, for a
total area of about 20,000 ha.
4.      ON Capacity Building (US$ 0.7 million). The project will:
(i) strengthen ON's monitoring/evaluation (including
procurement), as well as financial management systems; (ii) train
staff in irrigation management; (iii) train joint ON-farmer
irrigation infrastructure management committees ("comites
paritaires"), and (iv) train farmers in tertiary infrastructure
maintenance assessment and execution techniques.
5.      Studies (US$ 1.0 million). NRIP-I will finance the
preliminary and detailed engineering studies for 7,050 ha to be
developed in NRIP-II (see Annex 2 for details) and a study on
rice marketing strategies.
6.      Applied Research (US$ 1.5 million). The project will finance
on-farm tests on the adaptability and profitability of simple
hand held motorized equipment with a potential for enhancing
labor productivity. It will also put together a technical and
economic reference guide (for use by private investors) covering
cultural practices, alternative irrigation methods, and adaptable
farm equipment.
B) Small Scale Irrigation (US$ 11.2 million)
7.      Capacity Building (US$ 3.2 million). This includes: (i)
seminars and short term courses for grassroots intermediaries
(NGOs) and local consulting firms in the participatory conception
of small scale irrigation projects; (ii) intensive technical
support to beneficiaries (through NGOs) in irrigation
infrastructure management and increased agricultural productivity
and output marketing; (iii) short-term overseas courses and
study tours to neighboring countries for some DNAER staff
regarding different irrigation techniques and equipment DNAER is
the government department responsible for irrigation development;
and (iv) procurement training and computer equipment for the unit
within DNAER that will oversee this sub-component's execution.
8.      Land Development (US$ 4.8 million). The project will
finance technical studies, civil works, and pumping equipment for
500 ha in Mopti, 250 ha in Gao, and 250 ha in Tombouctou.
9.      Agricultural Intensification   (US$ 0.5 million). The
project will also finance one-time grants to associations of
irrigators for relending to their members on a revolving basis
for input purchase, with the funds managed by the irrigators
themselves with support from specialized NGOs (see Annex 2 for
details). (The association will lend these funds to its members
at 6% interest, sufficient for safeguarding the funds' real value
over time NGOs and consulting firms intervening in small scale
irrigation were identified during project preparation.)
10.     Studies (US$ 2.7 million). The project will finance a study
- 11 -



on ways and means of reducing investment costs through the
manufacturing of certain equipment locally (modules, slice gates)
and of importing less costly equipment, mainly from developing
countries (pumps, irrigation materials).
II. Roads
11.     Capacity Building (US$ 0.4 million). NRIP-I will support:
(i)     the setting up of a road maintenance fund (US$ 0.3 million).
Most legal tests for creating the fund have been drafted, and
await adoption by the National Assembly. The project will
finance the fund's start-up costs (furniture and equipment,
financial management system, monitoring and evaluation system)
and training of key personnel, particularly in financial
management.
(ii)    the completion of the national rural transport strategy (US$
0.1 million) through the use of a consultant that will review and
complete the work already done under the Rural Travel and
Transport Program.
12.     Feeder Road Rehabilitation (US$ 21.8 million). NRIP-I will
also support the rehabilitation of 472.3 km from government's
urgent feeder road program comprising the Banamba-Kiban-
Toubakoro-Molodo-Niono road (202.3 km out of its total length of
254 km); the Nara-Guire-Sokolo-Niono road (210 km); and the
Djene-Mongna-Saye road, through Macina (60 km).
III. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
13.     Capacity Building (US$ 2.3 million). The capacity building
component, aimed at strengthening the public and private sectors,
will comprise training and technical assistance. DNH's capacity
will be strengthened to enable it to better promote and
facilitate the sector's development, monitor sector program
performance and impacts, and act as a facilitator between private
sector operators and the communes. The capacity of the local
private sector and NGOs will be strengthened through appropriate
training to create the enabling environment as well as incentives
for the provision of goods and services to communities. The
training program will be demand-driven and shall consist of
modular units targeted to the various public sector players (DNH,
regional committees, and local government structures) and to the
private sector organizations and firms (NGOs, local consultants,
contractors, masons, well-diggers, pump mechanics). Details of
capacity building activities are contained in the Project
Implementation Manual. The training program will be managed by
the DNH but implemented by specialized private sector
institutions familiar with participatory techniques or
assistance to small enterprises.    Technical assistance, also
provided through a firm to ensure work quality, would focus on
technical aspects of implementation and community development:
(a) preparing the technical specifications of the bidding
documents, including design criteria; (b) preparing guidelines
- 12 -



for contract management; (d) monitoring the performance of local
contractors; (e) providing assistance to local consultants and
NGOs; (f) designing the information campaign; (g) identifying
private actors and NGOs and setting up cooperation arrangements
between them and the public actors; and (h) monitoring the
implementation of the mobilization process by NGOs and
organizing periodic evaluations.
14.     Rural Water Supply Development (US$ 19.9 million).
Specifically, the project will finance technical studies and
civil works for up to 1,300 water points. The level of service
and type of technology will be decided by communities from
options that include boreholes fitted with a hand-pump,
rehabilitation and replacement of existing hand-pumps that are
now obsolete, and rehabilitation of traditional wells and
improved sanitation facilities for schools and health centers.
Provision has been made for up to 25 larger communities that
might opt for boreholes equipped with solar powered pumps, a tank
and limited pipe distribution network (included in the 1,300).
The choice of options will take into account environmental,
technical and financial feasibility that is detailed in the
Project Implementation Manual.
15.     Sanitation and Hygiene Education (US$ 2.0 million). This
sub-component seeks to contribute to improvements in the health
of the rural population and in overall sanitation through better
management and delivery of sanitation services to be achieved by
way of extensive marketing and promotion campaigns.
Specifically, this project will (a) train masons and small
enterprises for constructing and promoting on-site sanitation
systems for households, communities, schools and health centers;
(b) improve the sanitation conditions and hygiene practices in
selected schools and health centers with a view to having a
demonstration effect within the surrounding communities; and (c)
improve the sanitation and hygiene practices of rural households
and communities through integration of appropriate messages and
activities in the community mobilization process for the water
supply program.
IV. Environment and Social Protection Measures (US$ 5.4 million)
16.     The project will finance a number of investments, legal and
regulatory measures, studies, and technical assistance designed
to contribute to the sustained use of the land and water
resources of Mali, to provide support to vulnerable social
groups, to mitigate the voluntary relocation of villagers near
the irrigated zones, and enhance women's participation in
economic development and local self-management. Many of these
measures, important for full socio-environmental management of
the project, such as institutional, training, and stakeholder
information measures, have been integrated in the specific
project component concerned.
17.     Institutional measures   The project will finance an
Institutional Assessment of the Ministry of Environment to make
- 13 -



this institution more effective. The Ministry of Environment
will be strengthened to supervise, manage, and monitor the Socio-
Environment Program of PNIR (an agreement between the project and
the Ministry of Environment will be signed for this purpose).
The project will create a Panel of Experts on environmental and
social issues composed of international and national experts.
18.     Legal measures.   Legal measures required for effective
environmental and social management concern: (a) agreement
between the project and the National Health Improvement Project
on health measures, (b) agreement on minimum flows released at
Markala, (c) regulation of loss of land in ON rehabilitation, (d)
modernization of the ON land lease system, (e) updating of
environmental management of contractors, (f) assessment of the
legal implications of Mali's international commitments in
regional watershed management conventions and international
environmental convention, and the institutional arrangements by
which those commitments can be managed, (h) clarification of
legal grazing rights within the current legal framework of Mali.
All these measures are related to ON development. Regarding
small-scale irrigation development, rural road rehabilitation,
and rural water supply, legal measures will include updating
environmental clauses in contracts with irrigation contractors,
road contractors, and drilling contractors, including clauses on
STD and AIDS awareness training for their employees.
19.     Studies and analyses.   These will include:   (a) a drainage
system study, (b) a baseline and then an ongoing assessment of
soil salinization (c) an analysis and action plan for woodland
depletion/production, (d) a natural habitat survey of Delta Mort
critical areas (fala) and unusual habitats, (e) a rapid
hydrological analysis of minimum flows at Markala to ensure
minimum flow to Niger Inland Delta and 70% of minimum flow to
Niger to minimize impacts on downstream communities, ecosystems
and fisheries, (f) a ground water resource study, with
recommendations for wells and borehole sites, monitoring and
groundwater management (g) support of IPM activity in
collaboration with FAO, (h) full plan for possible voluntary
relocation further away from water masses a full resettlement
plan, (i) a land tenure and socio-economic policy impact
analysis, (j) the formulation of an action research/policy on
gender; and (k) action plan on how to integrate livestock in the
Office du Niger area and how to manage the pastures around the
Office du Niger area in an environmentally and socially
sustainable manner in order to minimize land use and water use
conflicts and reduce impacts on vulnerable groups. Studies and
analyses required for the non-ON project components focus on the
conduct of perimeter-specific EAs, (b) the conduct of road-
section-specific EAs, (c) introduction of environmental and
social criteria in the National Strategy Transportation Strategy
for Local rural Roads, (d) social analyses in water point
(borehole) selection to ensure equitable distribution.
20.     Environmental and social investments.   Environmental and
social investments in irrigation, road rehabilitation and/or
- 14 -



rural water supply include (a) health related investments in
collaboration with the National Health Improvement Project, (b)
protection measures for downstream communities, aquatic
ecosystems, the Niger Inland Delta ecosystem and fisheries, in
consultation with Ministry of Environment, (c) a tree planting
program.
IV.  AGETIER (US$ 1.2 million
21.     NRIP-I will support the setting up of AGETIER by providing
(i) start up capital for equipment, (ii) training in procurement
and financial management, and (iii) initial operating expenses on
a declining basis (100t for the first year, 75t for the second
year, 30t for the third year, and 09 thereafter) as the agency is
expected to gradually self-finance from fees generated from its
services. The government will contribute CFAF 150 million toward
the Agency's initial capital requirements.
VI. Program Coordination and Program Monitoring (US$ 10.0
million)
22.     Program Coordination (US$ 7.3 million). Regarding the
National Project Coordination Unit (see Section C4 program
coordination set-up), the project will finance the salaries of
the project coordinator, his deputy, the accountant, and their
support staff, as well as equipment (vehicles, computers, and
furniture), training of project management staff, and operating
costs. It will also support. Regarding the Regional Project
Coordination Units (including ON's project implementation costs),
the project will finance equipment (office furniture, vehicles,
computing equipment, etc..) and salaries for the coordinator and
the other personnel as described in Section C4 in the regions
where the project will start.
23.     Program Monitoring (US$ 2.7 million). The project will
finance the set-up of an information management system, and
periodic surveys - the first one for establishing a baseline, and
others surveys as described in the Project Implementation Manual.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                                        16.33
IBRD
IDA                                              105.62
GOVERNMENT OF THE NETHERLANDS                     2.03
BENEFICIARIES                                     7.44
Total Project Cost                                131.42
6. Implementation
Program Coordination
1.      Program Coordination Committee (PCC). The Ministry of Rural
Development is the lead implementing agency, presiding over a 14-
member PCC constituted of the major players in the rural sector,
- 15 -



including representatives from several government ministries
involved in the project, local governments, the Chamber of
Agriculture, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and Office du
Niger (see project files for a copy of the decree relating to the
PCC's creation, its composition, and its responsibilities). The
PCC will be responsible for the overall execution of the program,
including reviewing and approving annual work programs,
monitoring implementation performance on the basis of project
performance indicators presented in Annex 1 of this project
document, and conducting an impact assessment of NRIP-I's
activities.
2.      Program Coordination Unit (PCU). The PCC will be supported
by a PCU of four officials (the unit's coordinator, his/her
deputy, an accountant and a procurement specialist), plus their
support staff. The coordinator will at all time be acceptable to
IDA. The PCU will, from time to time and as need arises, recruit
short term consultants in various fields (project monitoring and
evaluation, accounting, procurement, audits, environment, etc.).
The PCU will be responsible for:
a       ensuring the preparation of all project audit reports,
including those of AGETIER and ON;
a       quarterly project implementation reports that will include
project implementation performance and project impact indicators,
procurement performance, and the fulfillment of legal covenants
as stipulated in the credit agreement;
a       coordinating all those involved in financing the project;
a       all training activities for government staff; and
a       payments for contracts and other authorized transactions
executed under the project by the central departments of the
Ministry in charge of rural development, the Ministry in charge
of rural water supply and that of the Ministry in charge of
public works. In addition to the project account, the PCU will
manage a common special account for all the central departments.
3.      A project execution manual, acceptable to IDA, will
determine the practical implementation modalities for the
different agencies involved in the project. An advanced draft of
this manual will be reviewed at negotiations and finalized before
credit effectiveness.
Program Monitoring
4.      A participatory Monitoring and Evaluation system (in
advanced stages of preparation, and to be finalized before
effectiveness) will be integrated into the project management
processes. This includes work plan and monitoring reports. A
detailed M&E implementation manual, prepared with the main
implementation agencies (DNTP, DNAER, ON, DNH), will highlight:
raw data to be collected, information flows, data quality
control, analysis and feedback mechanisms, data sheets, automated
reports, and linkages between technical and financial reports. A
training program will be devised on the basis of the assessment
of user needs. During the first year of project implementation,
a baseline study will be carried out to establish the baseline
- 16 -



for future impact evaluation and targets for key indicators. At
the end of each phase, an impact evaluation will be carried out
in the same sample. This system will provide key stakeholders
(village/farmers associations, local governments - e.g. communes
and regions, AGETIER, ON, public agencies - DNTP, DNH, DNAER,
DNACPN, etc.. at both decentralized and national levels, donors
and coordination committees), with information to help them
analyze their activities within the project, identify problems
and formulate solutions, discover trends and patterns, schedule
project activities, minimize needless project costs, measure
progress toward expected outcomes, and routinely document project
achievements. Key indicators are presented in Annex 1.
5.      The deputy coordinator in the PCU will double as the M&E
coordinator, and will be mandated with controlling data quality,
managing the information system, consolidating overall project
information into annual plans and quarterly report and coordinate
impact evaluation studies. He/she will act as a
facilitator/communicator of the monitoring and evaluation
results, dissemination them at local, regional, and national
levels as a trainer for the users of the M&E system. He/she will
be assisted in this task the M&E units of the principal
implementing agencies.
Project Implementation
6.      Project implementation will be carried out by four
implementation agencies under the overall guidance of the PCC.
Large scale irrigation will be implemented by ON. Small Scale
irrigation will be implemented by DNAER (through its regional
directorates), with procurement and supervision delegated to
AGETIER. DNAER will also be responsible for general irrigation
sector studies and setting up planned capital cost recovery
system. Rural water supply and sanitation activities will be
implemented by DNH, working through local government
institutions. For the first phase, the DNH will be delegated
responsibility by the communes to execute borehole subprojects
while the open wells program will be delegated to AGETIER for
execution. NRIP-I's feeder road rehabilitation will be
implemented by DNTP. Consequently, there is need for procurement
capacity at the PCU, ON, DNAER, DNH, DNTP, and AGETIER, but
financial management capacity at the PCU, ON, and AGETIER only,
since the government departments (DNAER, DNH and DNTP) and
AGETIER will be liquidating all their financial obligations
through the PCU. Note that although AGETIER will not have a
special account, it's financial management system will be
supported and its performance closely monitored. The following
is a summary discussion of these arrangements (see Project
Implementation Manual for details).
Large Scale Irrigation
7.      Office du Niger will be responsible for project activities
in its intervention zone as described in Section Cl(a) above,
except for applied research (see next paragraph). The government
- 17 -



will pass on to ON in form of a grant the credit amount
corresponding to this component. ON will sign a separate project
agreement with each of the donors financing the component.
Although ON will operate a separate project special account, and
will deal directly with the donors, it will keep the PCU informed
of all project activities under its care through quarterly
reports, independent of the monthly implementation progress
reports prepared by consultants responsible for civil works
supervision.
8.      CNRA will be responsible for seeking on a competitive basis
the relevant research institution, national and/or international,
for executing the proposed research sub-component. Alliances
between national and international institutions will be
encouraged for building a national capacity in this domain. CNRA
will sign a convention with ON, and all payments to the selected
research entity will be liquidated through the special account
managed by ON. A satisfactory draft of the convention between
CNRA and ON is a condition for negotiations, to be signed before
project effectiveness.
Small Scale Irrigation
9.      The National Directorate for Rural Works and Equipment
(DNAER) will provide overall supervision and monitoring of this
sub-component. Specifically, the DNAER will be responsible for:
(i) consolidating all regional programs into one annual program
for its presentation by the PCU to the PCC for consideration;
(ii) monitoring and consolidating project implementation
performance and project impact indicators (including regional
environmental programs and environmental monitoring) for the sub-
component; (iii) carrying out the studies in paragraph 61 above;
and (iv) preparing NRIP-II's small scale irrigation component.
10.     The Regional Directorates for Works and Equipment (DRAERs)
in Mopti, Tombouctou, and Gao will manage the day-to-day
implementation of the sub-component. Each regional director will
be supported by a regional project coordinator (RPC) who will be
hired by the project as a consultant, responsible for the day-to-
day operations of the project. In keeping with the demand driven
approach, interested potential beneficiaries will formulate their
requests with the help of project-funded social intermediaries
(consulting firms, NGOs) recruited for the purpose, which will
then be vetted by the local authorities (communes, districts or
"cercles") for conformity with local area development plans
before being subjected to a set of evaluation criteria by a
regional committee set up for the purpose. The regional director,
the governor's advisor for rural development, the regional
director for nature conservation, the regional director for
rural/agricultural services, the regional director for health.
Assessment of the sub-projects will be carried out using
transparent procedures and clear eligibility criteria, all of
which are defined in the Project Implementation Manual. All
successful sub-projects will be presented to the regional
assembly for consideration and incorporation in the regional
- 18 -



development program, after which execution begins. DRAERs are
responsible for monitoring the work of social intermediaries and
overall project implementation and impact performance as detailed
in the Project Implementation Manual. They will monitor
environmental indicators in conjunction with the regional
directorates for nature conservation and health.
11.     AGETIER will be delegated all procurement for goods and
services by DRAERs, with AGETIER's responsibility ending with the
definitive acceptance of the works/goods in question. That is,
pre-investment technical studies, execution of civil works
including works supervision, purchase and installation of pumping
equipment. However, the DRAERs will be responsible for
elaborating the requisite terms of reference for all procurement
(with support from DNAER) and for ensuring the quality of the
goods and services procured. AGETIER will be delegated the
management of the water wells sub-component and any other works
as will be determined by the PCC and as AGETIER gets more
experience. A convention defining the rights and obligations of
AGETIER will be ready before negotiations and signed between the
government and AGETIER before the project's effectiveness. The
Agency's procedures manual and its statutes will be part of this
convention. The statutes of the Agency, its procedures manual
and its convention, as well as its executive staff (Director
General, technical and financial directors) will at all times be
acceptable to the Government and to all institutions financing
the projects executed by the Agency. AGETIER will not operate a
special account, but will liquidate all its financial obligations
through the PCU.
12.     User groups will be responsible for the management of the
irrigation perimeters once developed, i.e. all operation and
maintenance costs, including amortization charges for water
pumping equipment. These groups will continue to be assisted by
the social intermediaries for two years after a perimeter enters
into production regarding water and infrastructure management,
crop production and marketing, input purchase and operating cost
(revolving fund) management, etc., and thereafter turned over to
the regular national extension service.
Roads
13.     The National Directorate for Public Works (DNTP) will be
responsible for the physical implementation of the feeder road
component during Phase I. However, Phase II will support
exclusively the construction of small local transport
infrastructure. Although this has yet to be defined by the
national rural transport strategy, it is expected that communes
and probably local communities as well will be fully in charge of
for the construction and management of such infrastructure.
Given the expected instrumental role of the central government in
cofinancing this infrastructure's development, this strategy will
need to clarify the required cost-sharing arrangements
(organizational set up and procedures).
- 19 -



14.     For the major main network, the Road Maintenance Fund (RMF)
authorities will be responsible for managing resources generated
primarily from a fuel surcharge and other levies for the purposes
of road maintenance. They will directly manage the maintenance
program for major national roads (in collaboration with the
DNTP), but will transfer resources to regional governments for
feeder road maintenance as matching grants under a formula to be
determined. The allocation of RMF resources between main axes
and feeder roads will be taken in form of a decree (upon
proposition of the Board of the RMF), taking into consideration
the respective maintenance needs and the regional governments'
ability to pay. This will be preceded by the reclassification of
the road network.
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
15.     The National Directorate for Water Supply (DNH) will be the
implementing agency for this component. A national coordinator
for the component has been selected to head a small team of
comprising an assistant coordinator, two technical assistants (a
technical implementation advisor and a community development
advisor) and support staff. This team will be responsible for
overall coordination, supervision and monitoring of the
component, including disseminating the sector strategy,
supporting the formulation of community water and sanitation
subprojects, assisting the communes to execute their subprojects
through delegation of responsibility, monitoring and
consolidating project implementation performance and project
impact indicators (including environmental mitigation measures);
managing the procurement process for the borehole program on
behalf of the participating communes; providing assistance to the
regional directorates as needed; and conducting general sector
studies.
16.     The Regional Directorates for Water Supply (DRHEs) will be
responsible for the day-to-day implementation of project
activities. DRHEs will be directly responsible for supporting
the Communes and communities to select, formulate and appraise
the water supply and sanitation subprojects. For the first phase,
the DRHE would program and execute subprojects on boreholes
fitted with handpumps and solar-powered boreholes through
delegation from the communes. However, the procurement and
execution of subprojects for construction of dug wells     would be
delegated to AGETIER. In either case, the pre-investment support
to communities for community sub-project , formulation, community
education and training and post-investment monitoring will be
delegated to other intermediaries (e.g. consulting firms, NGOs).
Project activities will be demand-driven, with intermediaries
(consulting firms, NGOs, Partner Organizations (PO)) assisting in
diffusing information about the project, explaining the options
and the financial implications of each technical option (capital
cost contribution, operating and maintenance costs, replacement
costs), assessing the potential beneficiaries' willingness to
participate in the project, assisting communities in formulating
water supply and sanitation subprojects, setting up user
- 20 -



management tools and structures, and in carrying out health and
hygiene education activities related to rural water supply, and
monitoring post-investment performance.
17.     Regional Teams, each comprised of an engineer and a
community development specialist, and supported by a regional
project coordinator (hired as a consultant as discussed in
paragraph _ above), will be responsible for the day-to-day
coordination of the component, including supervising the social
intermediaries (consulting firms, NGOs), assisting the Communes
to pre-select and appraise beneficiary applications and
subsequent engineering design and construction. The project will
report regularly and consult with the Cercles and Regional
Assemblies on project progress in order to have their support and
for them to update their development plans.
18.     The Department of Sanitation and Control of Pollution and
Nuisance (DNACPN) of the Ministry of Territorial Equipment,
Environment and Urbanization will support the DNH with
implementation of the hygiene education and sanitation
activities, for which it will appoint a staff member to join the
water component national team at the DNH in Bamako. The regional
departments of DNACPN will provide support to the Regional
project teams in planning and latrine artisan training for
improved sanitation facilities construction and for hygiene
education and promotion activities.
19.     User groups.   The management, operation, and maintenance of
the installed water and sanitation infrastructure will be the
responsibility of the beneficiaries. Gender balanced user groups
and management committees will be formed by communities to take
responsibility for the management and operation of the systems.
7. Sustainability
1.      Irrigation.   The maintenance/management of ON's irrigation
infrastructure is a shared responsibility between GOM (primary
infrastructure) and the farmers (secondary and tertiary
infrastructure, and ON's operating costs), with the complete
transfer of all primary infrastructure maintenance financing to
farmers envisaged under the project (to be reflected in the 2002-
2004 ON-Farmer-GOM performance contract or "contrat-plan"),
which is feasible as discussed in Section E2 above. Already, not
only do farmers pay for all secondary infrastructure maintenance,
but also 50t of primary infrastructure maintenance by the year
2001.This progressive transfer of primary infrastructure
maintenance responsibility to farmers is made possible by the
progressive increases in the land area brought under production,
farm yields and farm revenue. The water service charge recovery
rate stands at an average of 97T and is expected to remain high.
The maintenance of primary and secondary canals is generally
satisfactory, but there is need for better maintenance
programming, which will be achieved through the planned capacity
building program for ON and joint farmer/ON water management
committees. Farmers are currently responsible for the manual
- 21 -



maintenance of tertiary canals, which represent some 10t of total
canal maintenance work volume. Although they are not yet perfect
at it, they have been displaying steady improvement in its
mastery, both in timing and work quality. In any case,
integrating tertiary canal maintenance in the overall maintenance
program carried out by contractors, which would occur at very
little additional cost should the farmers' performance be deemed
wanting, remains an option. In addition, GOM's continued
commitment to cereal market and trade liberalization should lead
to sustained farm profitability, thus greater prospects for
infrastructure maintenance.
2.      Where adequate farmer training and close follow-up have been
provided, particularly when offered through specialized NGOs,
canal/drain maintenance on small scale irrigation schemes, which
is all manual, has been timely and adequate. The major challenge
of these schemes is the replacement of pumping equipment
(requiring an annual amortization equivalent to 8t of paddy
production per household), on top of operation and maintenance
needs. However, paddy yields of 5.0 tons/ha, as currently the
case on schemes with adequate support services (credit, input
supply) and farmer training, are sufficient to guarantee long
term sustainability. In addition to strengthening irrigators'
associations regarding maintenance assessment and execution, and
water/crop management, the project will provide initial grants
for input purchase, to be managed by these associations (with
support from NGOs) and on-lent to their members on a revolving
basis, thus ensuring sustained productivity and adequate
amortization.
3.      Roads.  Sustainability of the feeder roads will be ensured
by the creation and satisfactory operation of the Road
Maintenance Fund, including a formula for distributing funds
between major highways and feeder roads and by adequate
participation by local authorities in financing feeder road
maintenance. It is expected that by the end of Phase I, the RMF
will be fully operational and adequately experienced. Although
the RMF's resources will initially be insufficient for covering
all maintenance needs for the entire national road network,
higher levies will gradually be imposed once the RMF's capacity
is adequately established. It is expected that by project's end,
sufficient resources will be available, and the institutional
framework firmly in place, to take care of the future maintenance
needs for the three roads to be rehabilitated under the project.
Note that in Phase II, new investments in rural transport
infrastructure will take place under the institutional framework
to be defined by the national rural transport strategy, which is
aimed at their increased sustainability through a high level of
participation of final users in investment decision making and
financing.
4.      Rural Water Supply and Sanitation.   The overall project
concept is geared toward ensuring greater sustainability. The
demand-driven approach will create genuine ownership of the
facilities by the beneficiaries, who will also have to present a
- 22 -



credible operation and maintenance plan as part of the
application. This plan will be thoroughly evaluated by the
project, and successful applicants will be required to open a
maintenance account, with satisfactory mechanisms for its
periodic replenishment. For a hand-pump, maintenance and
amortization charges amount to about CFAF 11,240 per household
for a village of 400 inhabitants, CFAF 31,000 for a solar pump
for a village of 1,500 inhabitants, and CFAF 24,000 for a large
village of 2,800 inhabitants. Evidently, solar pumps will be
more attractive in areas of high income like in the cotton/rice
producing areas. These charges are within the capacity of the
beneficiaries to pay as evidenced by the socio-economic study
conducted as part of the project preparation. Beneficiary
training will be carried out regarding operation and maintenance
of the RWSS infrastructure. In addition, the integration of
water supply, sanitation and hygiene education will maximize the
health benefits, thus providing loud testimony for a concerted
maintenance effort. The availability of goods and services,
especially spares and repair services, will be enhanced through
the project's capacity building activities that will render the
private sector able to respond to demand for services by
communities to sustain their water and sanitation systems.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
1.      Sub-Sectoral Strategies.   A coherent institutional framework
is a key foundation for sustainable sectoral investments.
Comprehensive irrigation and rural water supply strategies have
been elaborated, and work on a national rural transport strategy
in Mali is advanced (to be completed during NRIP-I).
2.      Participation and Capital Contribution.   Beneficiary
involvement in project identification/execution and management,
and significant contribution to initial investments either
financially or in kind ensure consistency with their priorities,
and enhance ownership, which further ensures sustainability, an
approach that will be adopted for the small-scale irrigation, and
rural water supply sub-projects in NRIP-I, and local rural
transport infrastructure in NRIP-II.
3.      Autonomous Road Maintenance Management.   Autonomous road
maintenance mechanisms with predictable revenues from road users
have been effective in ensuring adequate road maintenance, hence
the proposed road maintenance fund.
4.      Capacity.   Past experience has demonstrated the
effectiveness of a private non-profit executing agency that has
been delegated the management of project execution in developing
the capacity of local enterprises, an experience that will be
extended to rural areas through AGETIER which will implement part
of the program. Similarly, past experience has demonstrated the
payoffs (in terms of sustainability) from effective training of
irrigation and rural water supply management committees, a key
feature of this project.
- 23 -



5.      Funds for Input Purchase.   Potential returns on investments
in small scale irrigation tend to suffer from low input use due
to lack of access to credit. Experience in Tombouctou and Gao
has demonstrated that with proper training and support, farmers
can effectively manage revolving funds for input purchase,
another key feature of this project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        There are two parallel issues of
increasing concern. The first is the prevalence of water-
related diseases in the area (especially malaria, bilharzia and
diarrhea), the potential for aquifer pollution from chemical
fertilizers, the potential for increased soil salinity and
alkalinity, and increasing pressure on local grazing land and
fuelwood resources around some schemes. The second is the need
to reinforce the government's capacity to monitor and manage
environmental and social pressures and to promote environmentally
and socially sustainable agricultural practices.
The project was also assessed against these World Bank Safeguard
Policies with the following outcome:
1.      Safeguard Policy 4.01   Environmental assessment.    The
project as a whole was subjected to an environmental impact
assessment during its preparation. However, certain project
activities that are demand driven (and, therefore, their specific
location cannot be determined a priori, e.g. boreholes, and small
village irrigated plots of land) which could not be defined
during project preparation will be subjected to separate
environmental assessments once they are identified during project
implementation. These separate environmental assessments have
been budgeted for and are described under "Institutional
Measures" in each of the three components.
2.      Safeguard Policy 4.04   Natural habitats.   Natural habitats
are defined as "land and water areas where (1) the ecosystems'
biological communities are formed largely by native plant and
animal species, and (2) human activity has not essentially
modified the area's primary ecological functions". Certain
project activities involve, or may involve, some land clearing
and the replacement of natural vegetation, in particular in the
Irrigation development component and in the Road rehabilitation
component where alignment changes are involved, although in both
cases this is on a very limited scale (70w of the irrigation
acitivities involve rehabilitating already existing irrigated
land, and road rehabilitation is largely following the current
road tracks). The planned irrigation sites are not in an
ecologically sensitive zone. In addition, increased irrigation
development at the ON, if carried out in the absence of
concurrent measures to improve water use efficiency on existing
schemes, can decrease overall minimum flows in the Niger and
affect, possibly degrade, the Niger Inland Delta ecosystems. In
this particular case, however, the expected water savings from
- 24 -



better water management on the rehabilitated land are expected to
compensate for the planned incremental water use on the newly
added irrigated land. The project is in compliance with the
Safeguard Policy, provided mitigation measures included in the
NRIP Socio-Environment component are carried out. The
compensatory measures are prescribed in the section on
"Investments" and where further clarification of issues is
needed, details are given in the section on "Studies".
3.      Safeguard Policy 4.09   Pest management.   Procurement of
pesticides is not envisaged under the project, nor do farmers at
ON or on small scale irrigation schemes currently use pesticides.
On the other hand, some ongoing initiatives on IPM research
should be encouraged, and this aspect is included in the NRIP
Socio-Environment component.
4.      Safeguard Policy 4.36   Forestry.  The NRIP project is not
directly involved in operations in the forest sector. However,
the increasing population in the Office du Niger zone is
beginning to exert some pressure on the forest and fuelwood
resources. In addition to promoting improved cooking stoves and
support to a tree planting program, a special study to address
woodland depletion concerns is expected to develop long-term
community-driven solutions to the problem.
5.      Safeguard Policy 4.37   Safety of dams.  The large-scale
irrigation component of the project relies on the storage and
operation of the existing Markala Dam, which is under control of
the Office du Niger (ON). Under the recently closed World Bank
ON project, the Markala Dam was repaired and improved and full
level inspections and dam safety assessments were conducted and
documented. An effective dam safety program is in operation. No
further NRIP actions are required.
6.      Safeguard Policy 7.50   Projects on international waterways.
The policy specifically applies to irrigation that involve the
use or potential pollution of international waterways. The
large-scale irrigation component of the NRIP project relies on
the waters of the Niger River, an international river with
potential downstream effects in Mali itself, in Niger, Nigeria,
and the Atlantic Ocean. As stated above, it is expected that
water consumption economies made from the on-going and planned
rehabilitation (both under this project and projects financed by
other donors) will compensate for the additional water needs at
M'Bewani and Koumouna. In addition, notification of the proposed
NRIP project was made to the Niger River Basin Authority, as
required by the international treaty governing the use of the
Niger River and by the Bank's Safeguard Policy. Even though the
NRIP project is formally in compliance with the Safeguard Policy,
certain measures have been designed to strengthen environmental
management in the Niger River Basin. The actions are integrated
in the NRIP irrigation component.
7.      Safeguard Policy 7.60   Projects in disputed areas.   The
project does not involve activities in disputed areas. The NRIP
- 25 -



project is in compliance with the Safeguard Policy, without
further project measures.
11. Contact Points:
Task Manager
Eustacius N. Betubiza
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5618
Fax:        (202) 473-8229
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain
components may not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 19, 2000.
- 26 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
Note: This document contains tables that cannot be converted into
text files. However, if you have MS Word or Word Viewer on your
computer, you should be able to download the complete original
version by going to
- 27 -



