E-357
REPUBLIC OF MALI
ENVIRONMENTALUSOCIAL ASSESSMENT
AND
MANAGEMENT PLAN
FOR
THE NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM
(NRIP)
May 2000



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIER             Agency for Rural Works and Equipment (Agence d'Execution de Travaux
d'Infrastructures et d'Equipements Ruraux)
APL                 Adjustable Program Lending
CBO                 Community Based Organization
DNACPN              National Directorate for Sanitation, Pollution and Nuisance Control (Direction
Nationale de l 'Assainissement et du Contr6le des Pollutions et des Nuisances).
DNAER               National Directorate for Rural Works and Equipment (Direction Nationale de
l 'Amenagement et de l 'Equipement Rural)
DNH                 National Directorate for Water (Direction Nationale de l 'Hydraulique)
DNTP                National Directorate for Public Works (Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics)
EA                  Environmental Assessment
ESA                 Environmental and Social Assessment
ESMP                Environmental and Social Management Plan
FAO                 Food and Agriculture Organization
IER                 Institute for the Rural Economy (Institut d 'Economie Rurale)
IPM                 Integrated Pest Management
MDR                 Ministry of Rural Development (Ministere du developpement rural)
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
NRIP                National Rural Infrastructure Program
NRIP-I              First phase of the National Rural Infrastructure Program
NRIP-11             Second phase of the National Rural Infrastructure Program
OCP                 Onchocerciasis Control Program
ON                  Office du Niger
PASAOP              Agricultural Services and Farmers' Organizations Support Project (Project
d 'Appui au Services Agricoles et aux Organisations Paysannes)
PCC                 Project Coordination Committee
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
PM                  For Memory (Pour Memoire)
TOR                 Terms of Reference
11



I.        PRESENTATION OF THE PROGRAM  ....1.............................1
Purpose and Objectives of the Program ...1..............................I
NRIP's Components ..................................    I
1. Irrigation ..............................                                                            ....I
11. Feeder Roads ..................................2
111. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation ..................................3
IV. AGETIER .:                                                                                                 3
V. Environmental and Social Protection                                    .3
VI. Program Coordination and Monitoring                                    ..4
II. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ANALYSES CONDUCTED DURING NRIP'S PREPARATION. 6
A) Environmental Analyses                                              .6
B) Social Analyses.6
III.  APPLICABLE WORLD BANK SAFEGUARD POLICIES                                         ..............................................8
A)   Safeguard Policy 4.01 -Environmental assessment ...................................................8
B)   Safeguard Policy 4.04 -Natural habitats ..................................................8
C)   Safeguard Policy 4.09 -Pest management ...................................................9
D)   Safeguard Policy 4.11 -Cultural Property ..................................................9
E)   Safeguard Policy 4.20 - Indigenous people ..................................................9
F)   Safeguard Policy 4.30 -Involuntary resettlement ..................................................          10
G)   Safeguard Policy 4.36 -Forestry .................................................. 11
H)   Safeguard Policy 4.37 -Safety of dams ...................................................11
I)    Safeguard Policy 7.50 -Projects on international waterways ..................................................  12
J)    Safeguard Policy 7.60 -Projects in disputed areas .................................................. 12
K)   Operational Policy 4.20 -  The Gender Dimension of Development ..................................................  12
IV. NRIP'S SUMMARY ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESMENT .14
A) Major environmental and social impacts of irrigation development .14
B) Specific issues related to small-scale irrigation.                                                            22
C) Major environmental and social impacts of rural road rehabilitation .23
D) Major environmental and social impacts of rural water supply and sanitation .24
V. NRIP'S ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PLAN .25
A) Environmental and Social Capacity Building and Coordination Issues .25
I - Environmental and social capacity building in large-scale irrigation development at ON .25
2 - Environmental and social capacity building in small-scale irrigation development .27
3 - Environmental and social capacity building in rural road rehabilitation .28
4 - Environmental and social capacity building in rural water supply and sanitation .28
5 - Environmental and social capacity building of AGETIER .29
B) Other Environmental and Social Actions to be carried out under NRIP .29
Actions Related to NRIP as a Whole .29
Actions related to large-scale irrigation development at ON .30
Actions related to small-scale irrigation development .32
Actions related to rural roads.32
Actions related to rural water supply .33
C) Synopsis of NRIP's ESMP .33
VI. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR NRIP'S ESMP .40
A) -Institutional responsibilities.40
B) Environmental a            nd social monitoring .41
iii






ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIALASSESSMENT SUMMARY AND MANAGEMENT PLAN
MALI: NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM
Preface
This report contains a summary assessment of the environmental and social impacts of the Mali National
Rural Infrastructure Program (NRIP) and a comprehensive Environmental and Social Management Plan
(ESMP) to mitigate the Program's potential negative impacts and to enhance its environmental and social
benefits. After a brief presentation of the program, World Bank Safeguard Policies are presented next as
a framework for both the summary assessment of the environmental and social impacts and the ESMP.
The Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA) summary recapitulates the major, direct, induced, and
indirect environmental and social impacts of the Program and identifies information gaps. The relevant
Safeguard Policies constituted one of the criteria to assess the significance of specific environmental and
social impacts. The ESMP addresses the major impacts and identifies concrete project actions designed
not only to ensure compliance with Safeguard Policies, but also in response to other impacts for which no
Safeguard Policies yet exist. The ESMP prioritizes the environmental and social issues, rules out
unimportant impacts, and for the important impacts, assesses what needs to be done during the first 5-year
phase of the 1 0-year Program and during the second phase of the Program, where appropriate. The
ESMP also covers the implementation aspects: the institutional arrangements, including those for
monitoring and evaluation.
iv






ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIALASSESSMENT SUMMARY AND
MANAGEMENT PLAN
MALI: NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM
I. PRESENTATION OF THE PROGRAM
Purpose and Objectives of the Program
1.   The purpose of the National Rural Infrastructure Program (NRIP) is to reduce poverty and improve
the livelihood of the rural population by accelerating the provision, and enhancing the sustainability, of
basic rural infrastructure, particularly in irrigation, rural roads, and rural water supply and sanitation. The
project will be implemented in two 5-year phases. NRIP-I (2001 - 2005) aims at
establishing/strengthening and refining institutional mechanisms and strategies for the sustainable
financing, development and management of rural infrastructure, which will be tested out through
infrastructure investments in specific geographic areas. NRIP-II (2006 - 2010) aims at consolidating
these institutional mechanisms and expanding the level of investments in this type of infrastructure
country wide.
NRIP's Components
1. Irrigation
A) Large Scale Irrigation Development at Office du Niger
(i) Piloting New Irrigation Financing Mechanisms - "Koumouna I" (US$S5. 1)'. NRIP-1 will finance
a pilot (studies, workshops, and the development of a 390 ha test site at Koumouna) whose long
term objective is to have an autonomous, self-financing, privately managed, irrigation
development agency, responsible for irrigated land development and collection of repayments
from beneficiaries for further use in irrigation development.
(ii) Private Sector Irrigation Development Pilot - "Koumouna II" (USS 4.0 million). NRIP-I will
also pilot the promotion of the private sector in irrigation development by providing primary
infrastructure at a 444 ha test site at Koumouna to be fully developed by the private sector. The
project will also finance the full development of an additional 280 ha for the local population as
compensation for loss of the traditional use of the land to be developed by the private sector,
according to arrangements already agreed upon between Government and the local inhabitants.
(iii) Other irrigation development activities at ON (43.7 million). In addition to the above pilots, the
project will finance the following activities at ON:
*   Sokolo Perimeter Rehabilitation (US$ 29.6 million). This 30 year old irrigation perimeter of
5,850 ha is severely degraded, particularly the drainage system, and in dire need of major
rehabilitation.
*   M'Bewani Perimeter Completion (US$ 6.8 million). The first part of this perimeter (1,700
ha) was developed under previous IDA and Dutch financing. The two donors will finance
the remaining 1,300 ha.
'Amounts in parentheses are for all financiers combined.



*   Canal Costes-Ongoiba Expansion (US$ 7.3 million). IDA will finance the enlargement and
deepening of the Costes-Ongoiba canal (19 km) which serves the existing sugar plantations
at Dougabougou and Siribara, the M'Bewani irrigation perimeter and its planned extensions,
as well as the Koumouna perimeter, for a total area of about 20,000 ha.
(iv) Office du Niger Capacity Building (US$ 0.7 million). The project will: (i) strengthen ON's
monitoring/evaluation (including environmental monitoring), as well as financial management
systems; (ii) train ON staff in irrigation management; (iii) train joint ON-farmer irrigation
infrastructure management committees ("comites paritaires"), and (iv) train irrigation farmers'
associations in tertiary infrastructure maintenance management.
(v) Studies (US$ 1.8 million). NRIP-I will finance: (i) preliminary and detailed engineering studies
for about 7,000 ha to be developed in NRIP-II; (ii) studies on primary infrastructure maintenance
needs; and (iii) a study on rice marketing strategies.
(vi) Applied Research (US$ 1.5 million). The project will finance on-farm tests on the adaptability
and profitability of simple hand held motorized equipment with a potential for enhancing labor
productivity. It will also put together a technical and economic reference guide (for use by
private investors) covering cultural practices, alternative irrigation methods, and adaptable farm
equipment.
B) Small Scale Irrigation (US$ 9.8 million)
(i)  Capacity Building (US$ 2.7 million). This includes seminars and short term courses for: (a)
grassroots intermediaries (NGOs) and local consulting firms in the participatory conception of
small scale irrigation projects and environmental awareness; (b) beneficiaries (through NGOs) in
irrigation infrastructure management, increased agricultural productivity and output marketing
and environmental awareness; (c) government staff regarding different irrigation techniques and
equipment, and environmental monitoring.
(ii) Land Development (US$ 5.0 million). NRIP-I will finance the rehabilitation/development of 500
ha.in Mopti, 250 ha in Gao, and 250 ha in Tombouctou.
(iii) Underground Water Resource Utilization Pilot at Kidal (US$ 1.6 million) The project will
finance pilot activities (technical studies, civil works, and pumping equipment) to test the
feasibility of irrigated agriculture using underground water sources in the region of Kidal.
(iv) Agricultural Intensification (US$ 0.5 million). NRIP-I will provide one-time grants to
associations of irrigators for relending to their members on a revolving basis for input purchase,
with the funds managed by the irrigators themselves with support from specialized NGOs.
(v) Studies (US$ 0.5 million). The project will finance a study on ways and means of reducing
investment costs through the manufacturing of certain equipment locally (modules, slice gates)
and of importing less costly equipment, mainly from developing countries (pumps, irrigation
materials).
11. Feeder Roads
(i) Capacity Building (US$ 3.3 million). NRIP-I will support:
the setting up of a Road Authority for routine road maintenance (US$ 0.3 million) -- The
project will finance the fund's start-up costs (furniture and equipment, financial management
2



system, monitoring and evaluation system, including environmental monitoring) and training
of key personnel, particularly in financial management.
the completion of the national rural transport strategy (US$ 3.0 million) by reviewing and
completing the work already done under the Rural Travel and Transport Program, and carrying
out pilots on institutional arrangements for the financing and management of local roads.
(ii) Feeder Road Rehabilitation (USS 22.7 million). NRIP-I will also support the rehabilitation of
472.3 km from Government's urgent feeder road program comprising the Banamba-Kiban-
Toubakoro-Molodo-Niono road (202.3 km out of its total length of 254 km); the Nara-Guire-
Sokolo-Niono road (210 km); and the Djene-Mongna-Saye road (60 km).
111. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
(i) Capacity Building (US$ 3.5 million). The capacity building component, aimed at strengthening
the public and private sectors, will comprise training and technical assistance.
(ii) Rural Water Supply Development (US$ 20.5 million). NRIP-I will finance technical studies and
civil works for drilling/construction of up to 1,300 new boreholes and traditional wells, and the
repair of up to 800 old boreholes.
(iii) Sanitation and Hygiene Education (US$ 1.5 million). The sub-component will (a) train masons
and small enterprises for constructing and promoting sanitation systems; (b) improve the
sanitation conditions and hygiene practices in selected schools and health centers; and (c)
integrate appropriate messages and activities in the community mobilization process for the water
supply program.
IV. AGETIER
The project will support the setting up of the Agency for Rural Works and Equipment (Agence
d'Execution de Travaux dI'nfrastructures et d'Equipements Ruraux) or AGETIER (US$ 1.6
million) - by providing (i) start up capital for equipment, (ii) training in procurement, financial
management and environmental monitoring, and (iii) initial operating expenses.
V. Environmental and Social Protection
These activities (US$ 6.9 million) derive from the environmental and social analyses conducted
in preparation of this Program and include institutional and regulatory measures, training,
stakeholder consultation, studies, and investments designed to enhance its social and
environmental benefits. This component is presented in greater detail in Chapter V of this report.
(i) Institutional Measures (US$ 0.8 million). The project will finance: (i) a small unit for
environmental and social monitoring within ON; (ii) an overall institutional assessment of the
government departments in charge of the environment, which will then be strengthened to make
them more effective in supervising, managing, and monitoring NRIP's Socio-Environment
Program; and (iii) the periodic consultation of renowned international and national experts on
environmental and social issues regarding the implementation of NRIP's socio-environmental
component.
(ii) Regulatory Measures (US$ 1.4 million). The project will review and improve as appropriate
measures required for effective environmental and social management, including: (a) agreement
between the project and the Ministry of Public Health on health measures, (b) introducing
3



simplified screening criteria and methods for environmental and social issues in the National
Rural Transport Strategy, and (c) assessment of the legal implications of Mali's international
commitments in regional watershed management conventions and international environmental
conventions (RAMSAR), and the institutional arrangements by which those commitments can be
managed. Regarding small-scale irrigation development, rural road rehabilitation, and rural water
supply, measures will include updating environmental clauses in contracts with irrigation
contractors, road contractors, and drilling contractors, including clauses on sexually transmitted
diseases and AIDS awareness training for their employees.
(iii) Studies and analyses (US$ 2.5 million). These will include, for the ON zone: (a) a drainage
system study; (b) a baseline and then an ongoing assessment of soil salinization; (c) an analysis
and action plan for woodland depletion/production; (d) a natural habitat survey of Delta Mort
critical areas (fala) and unusual habitats; (e) a rapid hydrological analysis of minimum flows at
Markala and water requirements downstream to ensure minimum flow to the Niger Inland Delta
and downstream communities, ecosystems and fisheries; (f) a groundwater resource study, with
recommendations for wells and borehole sites, monitoring and groundwater management; (h) a
full plan for possible voluntary relocation further away from water masses; (i) the formulation of
an action research/policy on gender; and (j) action plan on how to integrate livestock in the
Office du Niger area and how to manage the pastures, livestock water resources, fallows and
residues in the Office du Niger area in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner in
order to minimize land and water use conflicts and reduce impacts on vulnerable groups.
Studies and analyses required for the non-ON project components focus on: (a) carrying out
perimeter-specific Environmental Assessments (EAs) and Social Assessments (SAs), (b) carrying
out road-section-specific EAs and SA(s), (c) social analyses on water point (borehole) selection to
ensure equitable distribution, and (d) social analyses of vulnerable groups (women in particular),
to determine how these groups can best benefit from improved rural infrastructure, and to prepare
an action plan to facilitate women's right to land in small-scale irrigation schemes.
(iv) Environmental and social investments (US$ 0.8 million). Environmental and social investments
in irrigation, road rehabilitation and/or rural water supply include (a) health related investments in
collaboration with the Ministry of Public Health, (b) support of IPM activity in collaboration with
FAO, and (c) a demand driven tree planting program to ensure the sustainable production of fuel-
wood, construction timber, and other forest products.
(v) Capacity building (US$ 1.4 million). The project will finance capacity building activities in
environmental and social issues for all stakeholders: Governmental departments, ON and
AGETIER staff, NGOs, local authorities, farmer leaders.
VI. Program Coordination and Monitoring
(i)  Program Coordination (US$ 9.2 million). The project will finance the salaries of the project
coordinator, his deputy, the accountant, and the support staff of the National Project
Coordination Unit, as well as the unit's equipment (vehicles, computers, and furniture), staff
training, and operating costs. The project will also finance the equipment (office furniture,
vehicles, computing equipment, etc..) and the salaries for the coordinator and the rest of the
personnel for the Regional Project Coordination Units in the regions where the project will
intervene, including ON's project implementation costs.
(ii) Program Monitoring (US$ 2.7 million). The project will finance the set-up of an information
management system (including procurement and environmental monitoring), and periodic
4



surveys -- the first one for establishing a baseline -- and others surveys as described in the Project
Implementation Manual.
Table 1      NRIP components and cost
Indicative Costs   Bank-financing
Component                                                               (US$M)             (US$M)
1.  Irrigation                                                                 66.6                53.0
I. Feeder Road Rehabilitation                                                 26.0                23.3
III. Rural water supply and sanitation                                         25.5                21.4
IV. AGETIER                                                                      1.1                0.7
V. Environment                                                                  6.9                 5.7
VII. Implementation and Monitoring                                             11.9                 9.7
PPF Refinancing                                                             1.3                 1.3
Total Project Costs                                                           139.3               115.1
5






II. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ANALYSES CONDUCTED DURING
NRIP'S PREPARATION
A) Environmental Analyses
2.    Several environmental studies and analyses were carried out during NRIP's preparation, some of
which were specifically undertaken for NRIP, while others were carried out as part of GOM's broader
strategic vision for environmental management to accompany its long term objective of accelerated but
socially and environmentally sustainable development. All relevant environmental and social studies are
listed in Table 2 below. Thematic studies prepared specifically for NRIP - largely dealing with large-
scale irrigation at the Office du Niger - included wood and energy, livestock, water management, the
institutional framework, voluntary relocation, and public health. In addition, separate component/sub-
component specific environmental and social analyses were carried out for large scale irrigation
(M'Bewani and Sokolo), small-scale irrigation, rural roads, and rural water supply and sanitation.2 The
analyses on large scale irrigation schemes were in complement to a set of zone-wide environmental
studies carried out at Office du Niger in 1999 with financial and technical assistance from the Dutch
cooperation. Other studies already completed or underway include an environmental report on the Office
du Niger produced for the Dutch-funded ARPON program, and an ongoing study of the Office du Niger
zone, part of the future Master Plan for the zone (financial support provided by the French cooperation).
B) Social Analyses
3.    A focused and gender-sensitive analysis of NRIP's impact, both at the community and at the
household level was carried out and its recommendations integrated in NRIP's design. Other reports
listed in Table 2 address NRIP's social, human, and demographic dimensions.
Table 2     Key environmental and social analyses used in preparation of NRIP
Doc  Editor                         Title                                           City of       Date
No.                                                                                 publication
I    Ministere du developpement rural  Etude environnemental du Programme National  Bamako       2000
et de l'eau                   d'Infrastructures Rurales (PNIR)-
*   Aspects sociaux - par 1. Cisse
*   Bois-energie et desertification - par
*   Elevage - M. A. Djiteye
*   Gestion de l'eau - par C.M. Haidara
*   Institutions - N'F. Kone
*   Recasement - A. Diallo
* Sante publique - Dr. Godefroy Coulibaly,
2     Minist&re du developpement rural  Etude socio-economique selon le genre des PNIR et  Bamako  2000
et de l'eau                   PASAOP. Par: S. Prouix et M. Diallo
3     Ministere du developpement rural  Etude d'Impact Environnemental du Projet de  Bamako       1999
et de l'eau                   Rehabilitation du Casier de Sokolo. Rapport definitif.
Par: Sen&Conseils
4     Ministere du ddveloppement rural  Etude d'Impact Environnemental et Social du Projet  Bamako  1999
et de l'eau                   d'Amenagement du Perimetre de M'Bewani, Bloc C.
Office du Niger, Republique du Mali. Par : Louis Berger
2 For small scale irrigation and rural water supply, the analyses are necessarily of a general nature since the specific location of
these demand-driven investments cannot be determined a priori, and will only be known during project implementation.
6



5     Ministere du developpement rural  Evaluation Environnementale du Projet Eau Potable et    Bamako  1999
et de l'eau                    Assainissement dans le cadre du PNIR - Kayes,
Koulikoro, Sikasso et Segou. Par: Dr. S. Keita,
6     Ministere du developpement rural  Etude Environnementale de la Zone de l'Office du Niger. Banako  1999
et de l'eau / Ministere de     Rapport de synthese. Financement: Cooperation
l'environnement                Neerlandaise (+ 7 rapports sect.)
7     Ministere du developpement rural  Programme Arpon IV - Appui a l'office Du Niger. CR    Arnhem   1999
et de l'eau                    Mission environnement. ARCADIS / IMAG-DLO, Pays-
Bas. Financement: Cooperation Neerlandaise. Par: B.
van Lavieren
8     Minist&re du developpement rural  Etude du Schema Directeur d'amenagement pour la Zone  Paris    1999
et de l'eau - Office du Niger  de l'Office du Niger. Rapport principal. Par:
SOGREAH/BCEOM/
BETICO. Financement: Agence Francaise de
Developpement. Rapport Environnement, Hydrologie, et
al.
7



III. APPLICABLE WORLD BANK SAFEGUARD POLICIES
4.   Sincwe some NRIP activities are financed by the World Bank, the Program is, therefore, subject to
the World Bank's Safeguard Policies3. The relevance of each of the ten specific Safeguard Policies with
regard to NRIP was verified. Below is a discussion of the Safeguard Policies to indicate which policies
are pertinent to NRIP, precisely what part of the policies are relevant to NRIP's design, and which
specific NRIP components and activities are concerned.
A) Safeguard Policy 4.01  -   Environmental assessment
NRIP as a whole was subjected to an environmental assessment during its preparation. Large
scale irrigation perimeters and rural roads, i.e. pre-identified project activities, had their
environmental assessments carried out a priori. However, the specific location of certain
demand-driven project activities (e.g. small scale irrigated plots of land, and boreholes and wells)
will only be known during project implementation. They will be subjected to separate
environmental and social assessments once they are identified during project implementation.
These assessments have been fully budgeted for in the project, and their general impacts are
discussed in this report.
NRIP is in compliance with this Safeguard Policy for each of its components, provided these
assessment are carried as stipulated, and that the detailed actions prescribed under "Institutional
Measures" and "Studies" in the Environmental and Social Management Plan or ESMP (Chapter
V) are implemented. These measures have been integrated into project design.
B) Safeguard Policy 4.04 -  Natural habitats
OP 4.04 prescribes that: "If the environmental assessment indicates that a project would significantly
convert or degrade natural habitats, the project includes mitigation measures acceptable to the Bank".
Natural habitats are defined as "land and water areas where (1) the ecosystems' biological communities
are formed largely by native plant and animal species, and (2) human activity has not essentially modified
the area's primary ecological functions".
Certain project activities involve, or may involve, land clearing and the replacement of natural
vegetation, e.g. in the irrigation development component (although even here over 80% of the
proposed work involves rehabilitating infrastructure on already existing irrigated land) and in the
road rehabilitation component where some minor alignments are possible. In addition, increased
irrigation development at the ON, if carried out in the absence of concurrent measures to improve
water use efficiency on existing irrigated land, can decrease overall minimum flows in the Niger
River and affect, possibly degrade, downstream ecosystems and fisheries (in this particular case,
however, the resulting reduction in water use after the planned rehabilitation is expected to
compensate for additional water needs due to new land development under the project; thus, the
river flow is not expected to be affected in any significant manner).
This project is in compliance with the Safeguard Policy, provided specific actions recommended
in the ESMP are carried out. Where compensatory measures are required, such actions are
prescribed in the section "Institutional Measures", and where further clarification of issues is
needed, details are given in the section on "Studies". These measures have been integrated into
project design.
The World Bank Operational Manual, Volume 11, Project Requirements
8



C) Safeguard Policy 4.09 - Pest management
Procurement of pesticides is not envisaged under the project. Generally, farmers in the ON area
or on small scale irrigation schemes elsewhere in Mali do not use pesticides, and it will be
advantageous for them to keep it that way, since pesticides are not only expensive but some of
them could also have undesired health and environmental impacts. There is, therefore, a need to
strengthen research on Integrated Pest Management (IPM).
The NRIP irrigation component is in compliance with the Safeguard Policy, provided research on
IPM is conducted as specified in the ESMP, in the section on "Studies". Adequate funding is
provided for under the project.
D) Safeguard Policy 4.11  -   Cultural Property
The Bank's policy is to seek to avoid elimination of cultural properties and to assist in their
preservation. NRIP's irrigation and road components involve significant earth movement and
surface environmental changes, which prima facie entail the risk of damaging cultural property.
In such a case, a determination is required of what is known about the cultural property aspects of
the proposed project sites, and where necessary a survey should be undertaken.
A cultural heritage and property survey was carried out at the proposed irrigation sites at ON and
found that developing these perimeters will not affect any cultural property. According to
preliminary engineering studies already done, and the detailed studies that are almost complete,
rehabilitating the three roads will not cause damage to cultural property. In a generic sense,
small-scale irrigation development, when carried out without proper requisite environmental and
social assessments, could potentially entail some risk of damaging cultural property. Therefore,
only sites where no cultural property exists will be considered for development under the project.
NRIP was determined to be in compliance with the Safeguard Policy, provided the environmental
assessments for the small-scale irrigation (whose specific sites will only be determined during
project implementation since they are demand-driven) are conducted as stipulated in the
Environmental and Social Management Plan, in the section on "Studies".
E) Safeguard Policy 4.20 - Indigenous people
In the Bank's Operational Directive 4.20, the term "indigenous people" describes social groups
which can be identified by the presence in varying degrees of the following characteristics:
(a) a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these areas;
(b) self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct cultural group;
(c) an indigenous language, often different from the national language;
(d) presence of customary social and political institutions; and
(e) primarily subsistence-oriented production.
Such groups are likely, the Directive further specifies, to be vulnerable to being disadvantaged in
the development process. Africa Regional practice recognizes that there are a few such groups,
such as the pygmy peoples across central Africa, or the San ("Bushman") populations of the
Kalahari. In the ON zone, although local peasants, pastoralists, and fisher-folk are vulnerable to
poverty, and climatic vagaries, they are not indigenous groups in the sense of the Operational
Directive. NRIP is, thus, in compliance with the Safeguard Policy, without there having to be
specific project measures taken.
9



Some NRIP project activities will take place in areas frequented by small ethnic groups, such as
transhumant herders and traditional (semi-nomadic) fisher-folk. Special analyses on these, and
other vulnerable members of society, e.g. women, designed to ensure that the impact upon them
are well understood and are monitored were carried out prior to Appraisal, or are envisaged in the
ESMP. In addition, specific measures have been designed not just to understand and mitigate
such impacts, but to ensure that these groups receive positive development benefits from the
project and that their interests are protected. These groups will get benefits from the project not
because they are indigenous but because they constitute a set of stakeholders whose special needs
have been recognized and are effectively dealt with in the Project.
F) Safeguard Policy 4.30 -  Involuntary resettlement
Development projects that displace people either physically or economically can give rise to
severe economic, social, and environmental problems. Involuntary resettlement may cause severe
long-term hardship, impoverishment, and environmental damage unless appropriate measures are
carefully planned and carried out.
None of NRIP's components involves involuntary resettlement. Some voluntary relocation is
possible and will be facilitated by the project for those households that might choose to relocate
to some other sites within the area. For example, one village that is currently located within the
previously developed portion of the M'Bewani irrigation perimeter (Zambougou village) has
expressed preference for moving near the main (surfaced) road. Similarly, some (not all) families
from another village which is located within the undeveloped portion of M'Bewani that is slated
for completion under the project (Massala village) have expressed an interest in moving near the
main road as well, where ON has set aside land for such a purpose: the "New M'Bewani" housing
site. This relocation is totally voluntary as these villages are currently located on elevated ground
that is in no danger of submersion, and have year round road access to the main road, even during
the cropping ("wet") season. Existing village sites will reportedly become less healthy as the
additional throughput of water, if it were not to be accompanied with adequate vector control and
other measures, might increase the incidence of some diseases, e.g. malaria. However,
comprehensive vector/disease control and sanitation measures are envisaged for all localities in
the entire project area. Thus, the likely waterbome disease potential (e.g. malaria) is not
significantly different whether they stay or move. Indeed it's for that reason that Zambougou
villagers tumed down an earlier offer of relocation assistance made to them 4 years ago and had
at the time opted to remain at their current site. And even now, although some Zambougou
families might move closer to the main road, other families might choose to remain at their
current site.
Similarly, the hamlets of Komola and Zafina (a total of 15 households) adjacent to the planned
Koumouna irrigation perimeter, on the southem edge of the M'Bewani irrigation perimeter, have
been offered the opportunity to relocate to a new site near the main road, and have expressed an
interest in taking up the offer, although the final decision remains theirs. Again, their current site
will remain untouched and with year-round road access (which will be upgraded for those that
might choose to stay. General assessments were carried out during project preparation, and
specific environmental/social assessments are stipulated in the ESMP for those that opt for
relocation. The assessments will determine appropriate compensation for assets under the
relocation, logistical support for moving, and a relocation grant for the persons concemed.
Finally, it is anticipated - as a result of the continuous process of consultation among the villages
in the wider area - that a few households currently located at some distance from the new
10



irrigated perimeters (and who presently practice both dry-land farming around their current
homesteads but also carry out irrigated farming on the completed (albeit small) portion of the
M'Bewani scheme) may move nearby the irrigated perimeter once their irrigated land allocation
becomes sufficiently large that they will no longer need to continue carrying out supplemental
dry-land farming around current villages. This process of settling near the new sites is consonant
with the historical processes already at work in the area, with villages moving periodically to new
zones where economic prospects look brighter (as, for example, to roadside locations). The
process of "precipitation" of multiple households to sites near their new irrigation sites requires
some guidance, in the form of zoning, so that the new areas of settlement do not become "rural
slums." Such assistance or regulation, however, does not diminish the fact that such self-
resettlement will be a voluntary process which the villagers themselves understand and are
already preparing themselves to undertake. In all these cases, resettlement under NRIP will be
voluntary, and OD 4.30 does not apply.
Regarding the road rehabilitation component, preliminary engineering design studies did not
discern any need for household relocation along any of the three roads. Detailed engineering
design studies are underway, including specific environmental and social assessments. Although
it is not expected, it is nonetheless not unlikely that a few people might be requested to give way
(and adequately assisted and compensated for all direct and collateral property concerned) should
some realignments on some road section(s) become indispensable, although all effort will be
made to avoid unnecessary/avoidable relocations, which is possible in a country that is as lightly
populated as rural Mali. Should any relocations become inevitable, the ongoing engineering
design studies and subsequent detailed social assessments will produce a clear framework, and
sufficient details for any relocation, including adequate compensation for any economic assets
that might be involved. With these considerations and agreements, NRIP project is in
compliance with the Operational Directive on Involuntary Resettlement.
G) Safeguard Policy 4.36  -  Forestry
NRIP is not directly involved in operations in the forest sector. It should be noted, however, that
the rapidly growing population in the ON zone (as it is indeed the case elsewhere in Mali) is
beginning to exert some pressure on local firewood resources. In order to address policy and
institutional issues and to integrate forestry and forest conservation projects with irrigation or
rural road rehabilitation, a sector-wide approach will be taken. In addition to promoting improved
cooking stoves and supporting to a tree planting program, a special study to address woodland
depletion concerns is expected to develop long-term community-driven solutions to the problem.
For each of the components concerned, NRIP is in compliance with the Safeguard Policy,
provided specific actions recommended in the Environmental and Social Management Plan under
"Investments" and "Studies" are carried out.
H) Safeguard Policy 4.37 -  Safety of dams
NRIP's large-scale irrigation component relies on the diversionary dam at Markala, which is
managed by ON. Under the recently closed multi-donor financed (including the World Bank)
ON project, the Markala Dam was repaired and improved and full level inspections and dam
safety assessments were conducted and documented. An effective dam safety program has been
in operation. NRIP is therefore in compliance with the Safeguard Policy, without further project
measures.
11



I)  Safeguard Policy 7.50 -   Projects on international waterways
The policy specifically includes rivers or bodies of surface water that flow through two or more
states and the policy specifically applies to irrigation and other projects that involve the use or
potential pollution of international waterways.
NRIP's irrigation component relies on the waters of the Niger River, an international river with
potential downstream effects in Mali itself as well as in Niger and Nigeria. As stated above, it is
expected that water consumption economies made from the on-going and planned rehabilitation
(both under this project and projects financed by other donors) will compensate for the additional
water needs at M'Bewani and Koumouna. In addition, notification of the proposed project was
made to the Niger River Basin Authority, as required by the international treaty governing the use
of the Niger River and by the Bank's Safeguard Policy. There are no return flows of drainage
water back into the river. Even though NRIP is formally in compliance with the Safeguard
Policy, certain measures have been designed and incorporated into the Environmental and Social
Management Plan, in the section on "Institutional measures " and "Studies, " to strengthen water
resource management in the Niger River Basin.
3) Safeguard Policy 7.60 - Projects in disputed areas
The project does not involve activities in disputed areas. NRIP is in compliance with the
Safeguard Policy, without further project measures.
5.   To summarize, NRIP is in compliance with four of the ten Safeguard Policies without any specific
measures required to be taken by the project, i.e. with SP 4.11 Cultural Property, with SP 4.20
Indigenous People, with SP 4.37 Safety of Dams, and with SP 7.60 Projects in Disputed Areas, and on
the completion of road engineering studies and the accompanying resettlement plan (if need be), will
comply with SP 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement. In two other cases, compliance is achieved from studies
and analyses conducted by others, including another Bank project. In the case of vulnerable social groups
the project takes important initiatives to safeguard these groups, even though this is not within the
requirements of the policy per se.
6.   Therefore, only the issues related to the six remaining Safeguard Policies have been further
considered in the EA Summary and in the ESMP discussed hereafter. The subsequent chapters of this
report develop the social and environmental issues and indicate in detail how NRIP will comply with the
six Safeguard Policies, and thus enhance project sustainability. In addition to the Safeguard policies,
NRIP specifically aims at integrating gender in project design and implementation. To this end, the
project follows Operational Policy 4.20:
K) Operational Policy 4.20 - The Gender Dimension of Development
The Bank aims to reduce gender disparities and enhance women's participation in the economic
development of their countries by integrating gender considerations in its country assistance
program. To this end, the Bank assists its member countries to
(a) Design gender-sensitive programs to ensure that overall development efforts are directed to
attain impacts that are equitably beneficial for both men and women.
(b) Review and modify legal and regulatory frameworks to improve women's access to assets and
services, and take institutional measures to ensure that legal changes are implemented in
actual practice.
(c) Strengthen the database for, and train country officials in, gender analysis.
12



(d) Obtain financing, if necessary, to meet the resource demands of program changes.
7.   Although the Gender policy in not among the "Safeguard" Policies of the Bank, gender ranks as a
significant issue of project quality in any project, NRIP included, in which the production system, labor
patterns, and amount and distribution of income will all change substantially from existing local patterns.
Assessing and addressing the impacts of project interventions are core issues of quality assurance. The
environment and social management plan addresses this project quality issue by setting out a number of
measures for taking account of gender differences in the impact and management of the new productive
resources, and acting to ensure that gender equity is the goal of each activity.
13



IV. NRIP'S SUMMARY ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASSESMENT
8.    This Chapter provides a summary of the major environmental and social impacts of NRIP as well
as the mitigation measures proposed to respond to the impacts. Most of the impacts involve the irrigation
component, and to a lesser degree the road rehabilitation and rural water supply components. The social
impacts are discussed as part of this EA Summary. The Summary comprises a synthesis of the
evaluations presented in Table 2, for the zones directly affected by the project.
9.    The environmental and social issues were prioritized. The selection of major environmental and
social impacts was based on a determination of impact significance, which was in turn based on the
applicable six Safeguard Policies identified in the previous Chapter, and the Gender Dimension;
consideration of the ecological, human health, social and economic importance of the impact concerned;
and on the Malian Government's environmental laws and regulations. The importance was determined
by the extent, duration, frequency, and magnitude of the impact.
A) Major environmental and social impacts of irrigation development
10.   The major environmental and social impacts of arising from irrigation development in Mali in
general, the relevant Bank Safeguard Policies, and major mitigation measures are summarized in the table
below. The impacts are then briefly discussed thereafter. Impacts in large-scale and small-scale
irrigation are essentially the same or are very similar, although their real extent differs. Specific issues
related to small-scale irrigation are discussed in Section B of this chapter.
11.   Office du Niger, by far the country's largest and most important large scale irrigation scheme, has
been in existence since 1932, and covers some 60,000 ha currently under production. It is important to
note that over 70% of NRIP-I's intervention at ON deals with rehabilitation of existing irrigated land.
Moreover, new land development under NRIP-I is only 4% of total irrigated land at ON. Thus, there is
very minimal additional water body creation under the project. Consequently, the effects discussed in
this, and the other "Impacts" below, refer to the ON as it is now, and not what NRIP activities would add
necessarily.
Table 3.    Major environmental/social impacts and mitigation of ON irrigation development
Potential Negative Direct Impacts   Safeguard       Major Mitigating Measures
policy
1. Introduction or increase in incidence  4.01      Prevention measures:
of waterbome or water related                    .   avoidance of stagnant or slowly moving water
diseases - bilharzia, malaria, diarrhea          .   use of straight or slightly curving canals
.   installation of gates at canal ends to allow flushing
.   filling or draining of burrow pits along canals and roads, or
conversion to fish ponds (fish feed on mosquito larvae and
other disease agents)
.   disease prophylaxis and disease treatment
.   supply clean drinking water as alternative to the
consumption of unsafe irrigation water
2. Loss and degradation of irrigated  4.01          .   Make proper design and layout of furrows or field to avoid
land as a result of                                  too steep a gradient and land leveling.
*   Soil erosion.                               .   Regulate water application to avoid over watering (conduct
.   Water logging of soils                          tests on volume based water billing)
.   Salinization of soils                       .   Avoid water logging through:
leaching of salts by flushing soils periodically
cultivating of salt tolerant crops
.   Assess the potential for ground water use as a way of
14



decreasing waterlogging;
*   Conduct overall assessment of salinity problems at ON
3. Loss of dry land resources to      4.04             *   Site projects to minimize loss or avoid encroachment on
irrigation development, and                             most sensitive or critical areas.
deterioration/ depletion of such                    *   Provide compensatory measures where possible for herders
resources in surrounding areas,                         and firewood collectors
including:                                          *   Promote tree planting by farmers for fuel.
*   grazing land4                                  *   Promote pasture improvement through ON's extension
*   woodlands                                          service
*   natural wildlife habitat and                   *   Promote local savings and loan associations as alternative
biodiversity                                       avenues for holding household savings
*   Facilitate the development of non-farm employment in
urban centers adjacent to ON
*   Set up a socio-environmental unit at ON
4. Reduction of flows of the Niger    4.04             *   Relocate or redesign project
during the dry season, affecting                    *   Regulate takeoff to mitigate effects
downstream land use, fisheries, and                 *   Provide compensatory measures where possible
ecology
5. Contamination of local aquifers due   4.09          *   Promote the use of organic manure (there is plenty of rice
to the use of chemical fertilizers                      straw which is suitable for composting)
*   Strengthen research on IPM.
6. Conflicts over access to land and  4.20             *   Manage land transfers and land use patterns to minimize
water, involving vulnerable people                      conflicts over size of land allocations, un-addressed needs
for access, and the increase of gender imbalance in control
or access
*   Provide means to ensure equitable distribution among users
and monitor to assure adherence
* Provide livestock passageways
7. Dislocation of populations and     4.30             *   Site project to minimize effect
communities                                         *   Resettle and ensure equal standards of living
*   Manage the influx of population into the area
8. Reduction of flows of the Niger,   7.50             *   Strengthen environmental management in the Niger Basin
affecting downstream countries                      *   Increased water use efficiency
Niger and Nigeria
9. Differential gender impact of      4.01             *   Understand and reduce potentially negative effects of
irrigation, road-building, water point                  project activities on women by tracking gender impacts,
provision and other interventions                       taking steps to address perceived gender impacts, and
affirmatively acting where women could otherwise expect to
lose ground under project-induced changes
IMPACT 1: INCREASED INCIDENCE OF WATERBORNE OR WATER RELATED DISEASES
12.   A direct effect of the presence of irrigation is the existence in the area of conditions conducive to
the development of waterborne diseases and vectors, particularly where the drainage network is
inadequate. It is estimated that in any given year, about half of the children between the ages of 2 and 9
years at ON get a malaria episode, an equal number of the children below the age of 5 years get diarrhea
at least once during the rainy season. Malaria incidence is estimated at 49.5%, compared to 40.9%
nationwide, and diarrhea incidence at 10.8% against the national average of 8.5%. This relatively high
incidence of diarrhea has been linked to the use of contaminated water from unsanitary traditional water
wells. The Sokolo area has a very limited number of boreholes for providing clean drinking water. The
situation is even worse in M'Bewani. Water from canals, although less frequently used for human
4 The impact on grazing lands is aggravated by large cattle herds that were acquired as investment, after the recent growth in
household incomes at ON.
15



consumption, is frequently used for laundry, creating opportunities for getting in contact with the
bilharzia-spreading mollusk. There are very few community health centers in the Office du Niger zone.
13.   A host of activities are included in NRIP's design that should help mitigate these long standing problems of
water-bom diseases at Office du Niger, e.g.:
*  improving the drainage infrastructure within the ON inigation system (better maintenance and control of
aquatic plants) in order to control the multiplicafion of mosquitoes and snails that act as vectors for malaria
and schistosomiasis, respectively;
* constructing bore-holes and wells for clean drinking water;
* working in close collaboration with the multi-donor (including the World Bank) financed National Health
Improvement Program (under modalities contained in an agreement to be entered into between the Ministry
of Rural Development as the lead implementing agency and the Ministry of Health) in support of measures
aimed at controlling the disease-vector population and reducing the three major water related diseases, by:
- rehabilitating and restocking the health center in Sokolo,
- constructing a new health center in M'Bewani,
- carrying out bilharzia, malaria, and diarrhea control programs, and
- carrying out information-education activities on construction and proper use of latrines, improved waste
disposal and village sanitation.
.1 MPCT2:RISK OF LOSS AND DEGRADATION OF IRRIGATED LAND (EROSION/SALINISATION)II
14.  Land in the ON zone is exposed to the risk of: (i) accelerated erosion from runoff over non-
cultivated and non-vegetated areas, and degradation from the impact of cattle (which pulverize canal
embankments thus exposing them to wind and water erosion), and (ii) salinization as a result of more than
optimal water application and poor drainage conditions.
15.  The water from the Niger river, with a salt content of 0.04g/l during the rainy season to 0.06g/l
during the dry season, is suitable for irrigation. Salinity tests at ON have demonstrated that whereas there
is a mild salt accumulation during the off-season, there is a net reduction in soluble salts during the main
(rainy) season resulting in insignificant salinization for the most part. Based on physical characteristics,
about 3% of the land at Office du Niger displays signs of possible salinization, most of it in the areas
which haven't been rehabilitated since their initial development (e.g. Molodo perimeter) or on relatively
elevated areas, although laboratory tests have been inconclusive. In a recent study of 828 samples, more
than 50% had a pH of less than 6, with only 2% of the samples having a pH of more than 8 pointing to
absence of any significant alkalization. Further research and monitoring will continue to be carried out by
IER's Niono research station. The Dutch cooperation, will strengthen ON's monitoring capacity through
training and equipment.
16.  Under the recently closed ON project, the Markala Dam was repaired, rendering it more effective
in water regulation. Some major distribution canals were also rehabilitated. So far, more than half of
ON's 60,000 ha have either been fully rehabilitated, or are under rehabilitation. All these efforts have
contributed to improving the efficiency of water use in the ON irrigation system and reducing the water
use per hectare. ON needs to improve its drainage system infrastructure and implement policies aimed at
improving the maintenance of the entire irrigation system. Improved drainage should help improve water
use and efficiency, reduce degradation of lands related to poor drainage and high water tables, and draw
less water from the river.
17.  Areas needing further attention and which will be addressed under NRIP-1 include:
16



*  training for ON staff and farmers in water management techniques;
*  creating incentive mechanisms for farm level water conservation, by piloting water metering systems instead
of applying a flat fee per season as is currently the case. Over the next five years, ON plans to reduce
water consumption from an average of 30,000 m3/ha/year to 20,000 m3/ha/year;
*  conducting a drainage system study, that compares the proposed solution of using large drains to retum
used, treated water back to the Niger river with altematives, in particular the possible reuse of treated,
drainage water for irrigation; and
*  assessing and monitorng of soil salinity and sodicity.
]IMPACT 3: INCREASED PRESSURE ON GRAZING LAND, WOODLANDS AND NATURAL HABITATS
18. There is increasing pressure on grazing lands in the broader Office du Niger zone (an area of
approximately 1.5 million hectares) principally due to rapid growth of livestock in the area. From 16,000
heads in 1954, the number of cattle in the ON zone has grown to an estimated 160,000 in 1998. Increased
farm incomes at ON have contributed to herd growth as farmers invest more of their savings in livestock.
During the cropping ("wet") season, livestock owned by irrigation farmers is driven to natural pastures
away from the growing rice, where it congregates with livestock belonging to transhumant communities
as well as that belonging to "dry-land" sedentary communities. The combined herd from the three groups
of users exerts pressure on the natural pastures. After rice is harvested, these herds (including those
belonging to non-ON sedentary and transhumant communities) are driven to the irrigated lands where
post-harvest regrowth and drinking water from irrigation canals abound, adding to the rapid deterioration
of the irrigation canals.
19.   Mitigation measures will include:
3 pasture and herd improvement programs, including straw enrichment techniques as supplemental fodder,
production of forage plants, particularly in the off-season, and better use of farm residues (the Rural Sector
Support Project under preparation (FY01) will support the delivery of agricultural services by MDR, thus
better pursuing these programs.
providing different avenues for holding household savings thus lessening the need to save in form of
livestock -- there has been a rapid progression in the number of banking facilities in the zone, particularly of
local savings and loan associations, and more support will be provided through the Financial Sector Support
Project (FY00).
20. Pressure on woodland resources in the ON zone is progressing rapidly in tandem with the
increase in the local population (irrigation farmers and other people providing support services to
irrigation). Firewood available for harvesting without depleting the resource base has been on the
decline, falling from 232,000 tons in 1987 to 211,700 in 1998. The available wood is located at greater
and greater distances from the villages. The population living in the Office du Niger zone, estimated at
287,000, consumes an estimated 168,500 tons (192,600 m3) of firewood per year. As a result, the price of
wood has in some cases more than quadrupled over the last 10 years (see Table 4 below).
Table 4    Evolution firewood prices of the last 10 years, 1988-1998
17



Office du Niger Zone  Price per Donkey Cart (<< Charrette >>)
1988 (CFAF)            1997 (CFAF)            Percentage Increase
Niono                  2 000-3 000            6 000- 11 000           340%
Diabaly                  600 - 1 000          3 500 - 4 000           469%
Molodo                 2 000 - 3 000          5 000 -  6 000          220%
N'Debougou             3 000 - 4 000          5 000 -  7 500          178%
Kolondotomo            1 000 - 2 000          3 250 - 4 000           242%
21.   Mitigation measures will include:
*  supporting local communities with their natural resource management efforts, including the elaboration of
area development plans through the on-going Wodd Bank financed Natural Resource Management Project,
and its planned successor;
*  promoting the use of improved cooking stoves and other fuel saving technologies through NRIP. In Sokolo
and M'Bewani, where currently no improved stoves are used, the project's activities will include supplying
free improved cooking stoves, thus generating a demonstration effect. The project will train local artisans in
the manufacture of these improved cooking stoves. This effort will be led by social workers (((animatrices )))
at ON, in conjunction with the Ministry in charge of the Environment.
* promoting tree planting programs around homesteads and along irrigation canals through ON's extension
service. Farmers will be trained in seedbed preparation and tree transplantation techniques. The project
will also support information-education-communication activities related to these issues over local radio.
Increasing the presence of trees within the ON area is likely to require a significant effort to persuade
farmers that the trees will not result in a significant increase in the amount of grain lost to grain eating birds.
While facilitating an increased planting and presence of trees typically requires a serious community
development effort, the situation in the ON may require an even larger effort and campaign to change
attitudes towards trees than in most places.
22.  The loss of natural wildlife habitat and biodiversity is a process concomitant with the loss of
woodland and grazing lands, and often involves the same areas. There is no detailed information
available as to the extent of biodiversity loss.
23.   NRIP will finance:
* an ecological survey to identify critical and unusual habitats.
IMPACT 4: REDUCED RIVER FLOWS AND EFFECT ON DOWN STREAM LAND USE/FISHERIES/ECOLOGY
24.  Increasing irrigation at ON, if this was to be done without putting in place measures for greater
water use efficiency, particularly when drainage systems do not return water to the river after use, would
undoubtedly reduce the amount of water available to ecosystems and communities down stream,
particularly during the dry season. It is not exactly clear to what extent the wetlands and floodplains of
the Niger Inland Delta would be affected by the resulting low flows. An indication is given by data in the
ON's Master Plan Hydrology report (Document # 8, in Table 2 of this report). If, for example, the intake
at Markala is 250m3/sec at a stream flow of 500 m3/sec, the water level will be lowered by 40 cm at Ke
Macina, by 62.5 cm at Mopti and Dire (one month later), and 47.5 cm at Tossaye (two month later).
Thousands of people depend on the river for their livelihoods. The delta area of the Niger is the largest
floodplain in West Africa, covering 1,700,000ha. Important for water-birds, warthog and manatees, it
includes Lac Debo, Lac Fanguibine, Lac Oro and Seri and the Diaka River Floodplains. Over 1 00 species
of fish have been recorded, but few endemics occur. One endemic that does occur is a planktivorous
18



clupeid Microthrissa miri. The area is of enormous importance to waterfowl, and over 350 species of
bird have been recorded. It is an important breeding area for pelican, cormorant and pratincole; the last is
rare, as are hippopotamus.5
25.   Decisions about water use and conflict resolution need to be based on factual information. To date
there is little data concerning the use of water by different structures/organizations/ stakeholders.
26.    The project will:
collect data on the amount of water flow and quality above and below the ON, as a means of estimating use
within the ON. Seiingue dam's potential for maintaining a higher low water level in the river downstream
without compromising its objectives with regard to generating electricity will also be examined.
analyze the water balance and the impact of future irrigation expansion on dry season flow in the Niger
River, and make recommendations for a minimum flow release during the dry season from the Markala
Dam. Based on these analyses and Mali's intemational commitments, a water resources strategy will be
developed to guide sustained Niger river water use.
place emphasis on the establishment and effective operation of a national institution, a Mali Niger River
Basin Commission, that can serve as a forum for managing competing water uses and resolving conflicts
between users. Users would include the ON, the major cities along the river such as Bamako, and sectoral
interests such as electrical energy generation, the sugar cane plantationAindustry, and the minimum
requirements of the Inland Delta and other downstream users, such as irrigation systems, fisheries and
ecosystems. For the national commission to be effective, all stakeholders should be represented on the
commission and be allowed to participate in the decision-making process. Care must be taken that this
design profits from the lessons leamed from the previous 70 years of ON's experience as well as more
recent experiences woridwide.
HFIMPACT 5: POTENTIAL FOR CONTAMINATING LOCAL AQUIFERS                                             1
27.  A direct consequence of irrigation is the potential impact on local aquifers. Irrigation water from
ON's drainage system has significant quantities of fertilizer residues, and bacteria, for example E. coli
from fecal sources. Traditional wells using shallow aquifers within the perimeter areas can be
contaminated with these substances, and flooding during periods of high water may also contaminate
these wells. ON's poor drainage network is likely to affect ground water, since much of the used
irrigation water is simply drained into natural depressions. In many areas, the water table is naturally
fairly close to the surface and is further raised by the drainage water. With the water table close to the
surface, drainage water might not undergo sufficient filtering before coming in contact with underground
water. Because of the high water table it is difficult to keep latrines and other sources of waste from
coming in contact with the underground water, further compromising its quality.
28.   The project will:
finance a ground water resources study, including quantities and quality, as well as specifying cheap but
effective monitoring mechanisms for ground water levels and quality will be carried out.
5 World Conservation Monitoring Center. Ecologically Sensitive Sites in Africa. Compiled for the World Bank. Volume V.
Washington, 1993.
19



take measures to improve drainage in the ON network to avert underground water contamination. NRIP will
finance studies on systems that include a combination of effectve natural and artificial filtration systems to
ensure that drainage water is of satisfactory quality. It will also finance ways to contain the spread of water
hyacinth and other aquatic plants as a way to improve drainage.
provide clean water to populations concemed by financing several bore-holes to help provide potable water
that meets quality standards, and by supporting an education program to improve awareness of the problem
and hygiene. Where water supply infrastructure will be installed, underground water in the target areas will
be tested prior to digging such wells and periodically thereafter, to ensure the water is potable6
IIMPACT 6: CONFLICTS OVER AcCESS To RESOURCES INVOLVING SOCIALLY VULNERABLE PEOPLE
29.  Land use conflicts in the Niger River Valley. Land/resource use management and the resolution
of land use conflicts, particularly between farmers and herders, is an important issue in the Upper Niger
River Valley and Delta areas, where some of NRIP's activities will take place (small scale irrigation). It
will be important, therefore, that all of the stakeholders involved in the use of water, land and other
resources affected by these systems be consulted in order for resource management and conflict resolution
efforts to be effective.
30.   Consequently:
* NRIP's intervention in small scale irrigation will follow a very elaborate procedure (which is described in the
Project Implementation Manual) designed to ensure adequate consultation of all stakeholders before a
community's request for irrigation development is considered for financing. Only areas that have no
conflicting claims or whose development won't go against the interests of another group will be developed.
N NRIP will work with specialized NGOs in training local villagers in conflict resolution.
31.   Vulnerable social groups. NRIP examined the issue of vulnerable groups in its preparation, and
has taken measures for fully accommodating these groups in the project, particularly women. For
example:
-  a fraction of NRIPs resources will be set aside for women and women groups for irrigation development and
several other labor saving and/or income generating activities; and
*  transhumant corridors will also be protected.
IIMPACT 7: VOLUNTARY RELOCATION OF SOME HOUSEHOLDS
32.   The work to be carried out at Sokolo involves the rehabilitation of an existing perimeter. No
resettlement will take place. Some voluntary relocation will, however, be facilitated by the project for
those households that might choose to relocate to some other sites within the area. For example, one
village that is currently located within the previously developed portion of the M'Bewani irrigation
perimeter (Zambougou village) has expressed preference for moving near the main (surfaced) road.
6 Mali's Institut d'Economie Rurale is already involved in a regional research activity that is testing wells in areas of intensive
agro-chemical use in several countries in West Africa.
20



Similarly, some (not all) families from another village which is located within the undeveloped portion of
M'Bewani that is slated for completion under the project (Massala village) have expressed an interest in
moving near the main road as well, where ON has set aside land for such a purpose: the "New
M'Bewani" housing site. This relocation is totally voluntary as these villages are located on elevated
ground that it is in no danger of submersion, and have year round road access to the main road, even
during the cropping ("wet") season. Existing village sites will reportedly become less healthy as the
additional throughput of water, if it were not to be accompanied with adequate vector control and other
measures, might increase the incidence of some diseases, e.g. malaria. However, comprehensive
vector/disease control and sanitation measures are envisaged for all localities in the entire project area.
Thus, the likely waterbome disease potential (e.g. malaria) is not significantly different whether they stay
or move. Indeed it's for that reason that Zambougou villagers turned down an earlier offer of relocation
assistance made to them 4 years ago and had at the time opted to remain at their current site. And even
now, although some Zambougou families might move closer to the main road, other families choose to
remain at their current site.
33.  Similarly, the hamlets of Komola and Zafina (a total of 15 households) adjacent to the planned
Koumouna irrigation perimeter, on the southern edge of the M'Bewani irrigation perimeter, have been
offered the opportunity to relocate to a new site near the main road, and have expressed an interest in
taking up the offer, although the final decision remains theirs. Again, their current site will remain
untouched and with year-round road access (which will be upgraded for those that might choose to stay.
General assessments were carried out during project preparation, and specific environmental/social
assessments are stipulated in the ESMP for those that opt for relocation. The assessments will determine
appropriate compensation for assets under the relocation, logistical support for moving, and a relocation
grant for the persons concerned.
34.  Finally, it is anticipated - as a result of the continuous process of consultation among the villages
in the wider area - that a few households currently located at some distance from the new irrigated
perimeters (and who presently practice both dry-land farming around their current homesteads but also
carry out irrigated farming on the completed (albeit small) portion of the M'Bewani scheme) may move
nearby the irrigated perimeter once their irrigated land allocation becomes sufficiently large that they will
no longer need to continue carrying out supplemental dry-land farming. This process of settling near the
new sites is consonant with the historical processes already at work in the area, with villages moving
periodically to new zones where economic prospects look brighter (as, for example, to roadside
locations). The process of "precipitation" of multiple households to sites near their new irrigation sites
requires some guidance, in the form of zoning, so that the new areas of settlement do not become "rural
slums." Such assistance or regulation, however, does not diminish the fact that such self-resettlement will
be a voluntary process which the villagers themselves understand and are already preparing themselves to
undertake.
35.  NRIP will facilitate this voluntary relocation, including:
* producing detailed social assessments with a clear framework and sufficient details for any relocation;
* providing adequate compensation for any economic assets lost during/because of the relocation as per
established guidelines; and
*  providing adequate social infrastructure at the receiving sites including schools, health facilities, clean water
sources, places of worship, etc.
I MPACT 8: REDUCED RIVER FLOWS AND RIPARIAN IMPLICATIONS
21



36. NRIP's irrigation component relies on the waters of the Niger River, an international river with
potential downstream effects in Mali itself as well as in Niger and Nigeria. It is expected that water
consumption economies made from the on-going and planned rehabilitation (both under this project and
projects financed by other donors) will compensate for the additional water needs at M'Bewani and
Koumouna. In addition, notification of the proposed project was made to the Niger River Basin
Authority, as required by the international treaty governing the use of the Niger River and by the Bank's
Safeguard Policy.
37.  For the long term, however, the actions proposed under "Impact 4" will be undertaken.
B) Specific issues related to small-scale irrigation
38.  Since the development of small-scale irrigation perimeters by NRIP is demand-driven, their
specific location cannot be determined a priori during project preparation. As a result, perimeter-
specific environmental and social assessments will be carried out during project implementation, and
will form part of the criteria for determining each perimeter's eligibility for project financing.
39.  Although the impacts in large-scale and small-scale irrigation are essentially the same or are very
similar, their extent differs and thus their significance. The following specific issues related to small-
scale irrigation, which have been discussed in detail in the previous section, are of importance and will
need to be incorporated in site-specific environmental and social assessments:
Table 5    Environmental impacts and Safeguard Policies in small-scale irrigation
Potential Negative Direct Impacts                                          Safeguard policy
1. Introduction or increase in incidence of waterborne or water related diseases -   4.01
bilharzia, malaria, diarrhea
2. Loss and degradation of irrigated land as a result of                   4.01
*  Soil erosion.
*  Water logging of soils
*  Salinization of soils
3. Loss of dry land resources to irrigation development, and deterioration!  4.04
depletion of such resources in surrounding areas, including:
* Grazing land
* Woodlands
*  Natural wildlife habitat and biodiversity
4. Potential for contaminating local aquifers                              4.09
5. Conflicts over access to land and water, involving vulnerable social groups  4.20
40.  Technical norms of reference for the development of small-scale irrigation perimeters have been
updated, environmental and social norms were part of this process. Perimeter-specific environmental and
social assessments that take into account the above potential impacts will have to respect these norms. At
this time, no specific decree exists asserting gender equality in access for small-scale irrigation
perimeters. Perimeter-specific environmental and social assessments will, therefore, take into
consideration gender equality in access to rehabilitated or developed land.
22



C) Major environmental and social impacts of rural road rehabilitation
41.  Environmental and social assessments, including the preparation of environmental and social
management plans, will be undertaken for each of the three roads as part of the ongoing technical design
studies. The following specific issues related to rural road rehabilitation are of importance for the three
roads and will need to be considered in the road-specific environmental and social assessments:
Table 6    Major environmental/social impacts and mitigation of rural road rehabilitation
Potential Negative Direct Impacts        Mitigating Measures
Direct during construction
1. Erosion from fresh road cuts and fills and  *  Limit earth moving to dry periods
temporary sedimentation of natural        *  Protect susceptible soil surfaces with mulch
drainage ways                             *  Protect drainage channels with berms, straw or
fabric barriers
*  Install sedimentation basins, seed or plant
erodible surfaces as soon as possible
2. Ground and water contamination by oil,   *  Collect and recycle of lubricants
grease, and fuel in equipment yards6      *  Take precautions to avoid accidental spills
3. Creation of stagnant water bodies in     *  Assess vector ecology in work areas and employ
borrow pits, quarries, etc. suited to        of measures to avoid creating habitats (e.g.,
mosquito breeding and other disease          improved landscaping, filling or drainage)
vectors.
4. Environmental and social disruption by   *  Carefully site and manage construction camps
construction camps                        *  Inform construction labor re environmental and
social clauses
5. Destruction of buildings, vegetation and  *  Use alternative alignments
soil in the right of way, borrow pit sites,  .  Harvest and utilize public domain forest resources
waste dumps, and equipment yards             prior to construction
6. Interruption of sub soil and overload    *  Install adequate drainage works
drainage patterns (in areas of cuts and
fills)
7. Land acquisition for road widening, road  *  Provide adequate compensation.
realignment, or the siting of borrow pits 
Indirect in road operation 
8. Facilitation of access to unprotected    *  Change priorities for road rehabilitation
ecologically sensitive sites              *  Provide compensatory measures
42.  Preliminary engineering design studies did not discem any need for household relocation along any
of the three roads. Detailed engineering design studies are underway, including specific environmental
and social assessments. Although it is not expected, it is nonetheless not unlikely that a few people might
be requested to give way (and adequately assisted and compensated for all direct and collateral property
concerned) should some realignments on some road section(s) become indispensable, although all effort
will be made to avoid unnecessary/avoidable relocations, which is possible in a country that is as lightly
populated as rural Mali. Should any relocations become inevitable, the ongoing engineering design
studies and subsequent detailed social assessments will produce a clear framework, and sufficient details
for any relocation, including adequate compensation for any economic assets that might be involved.
23



D) Major environmental and social impacts of rural water supply and
sanitation
Table 7.   Major environmental/social impacts and mitigation of rural water supply and
sanitation
Potential Negative Direct Impacts    Mitigating Measures
1. Soil, crop or groundwater      * Ensure disposal systems are adequate to safeguard health
contamination and disease vector  of humans and livestock
breeding or feeding at waste
disposal sites
2. Failure to achieve public health  * Conduct sanitation and hygiene education program
improvement in service area
Indirect
1. Unplanned development induced    . Coordinate installation of drinking water and sanitation with
or facilitated by infrastructure  village land use planning
43.  No major, adverse environmental impacts are expected from the Rural Water Supply component.
In fact there are substantial, environmental (particularly from the sanitation activities) and social benefits.
In irrigation areas at the ON, clean water supply will be provided as an alternative to the consumption by
both humans and animals of often unsafe irrigation canal/drain water.
44.  Gender - Care will be taken to ensure that women are adequately consulted at all stages of pre-
investment planning and post-investment management as male-dominated committees might not fully
appreciate all women's concerns (e.g. the transport burden placed on women for water collection).
45.  Non-traditional villages - In order to ensure ownership, and therefore, enhance sustainability,
water supply and sanitation infrastructure will be offered only upon explicit demand by the beneficiaries.
It is, however, recognized that non-traditional, multi-ethnic aggregation of immigrants might have limited
capacity to organize and respond effectively to these opportunities. Therefore, such communities receive
additional organizational help and training to allow them to participate effectively.
24



V. NRIP'S ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
46.  Potential environmental and social impacts and broad mitigation measures were discussed in
Chapter IV. In this Chapter, the specific actions required to mitigate potentially negative impacts and to
enhance positive outcomes are set out in detail. These actions are grouped in major categories of actions,
namely: actual investments on the ground; regulatory or administrative changes and upgrading; and
operational plans and the studies, training, and capacity building. The measures are discussed below and
are summarized in Table 8. In some cases the actions will have to take place as part of the preparation of
NRIP-II, given the relatively long lead time necessary to achieving the desired capacity before the activity
can be undertaken. The TOR for the Environment and Social Unit recommended as a critical
institutional step should include the preparation of an Inception Report within six months of the unit's
startup, and after consultation with the diversity of stakeholders in the overall development program for
the inland delta of which NRIP is one part. The Inception Report should re-analyze the list of actions set
out below, and restate the critical path by which each item will be undertaken and accomplished..
47. NRIP is not an isolated endeavor of the Mali Government. Many other activities are being
implemented through projects financed by other donors or by other World Bank financed projects. ESMP
design, therefore, reflects an effort to engage other donors inputs (donor coordination in order to
capitalize on others' interventions). Experience and approaches from other donors active in the Office du
Niger area and from other Bank projects, such as the Health SIP and the PASAOP, have been fed into the
design of the ESMP.
A) Environmental and Social Capacity Building and Coordination Issues
1 - Environmental and social capacity building in large-scale irrigation development at ON
48.  The large-scale irrigation innovations proposed in NRIP are linked to a series of institutional
innovations whose formulation requires adequate information about: (1) the sources and levels of farm
and non-farm income, (2) formal and informal institutions such as community organizations and
associations (comites de pilotage, comites villageois, women's groups), (3) beneficiary formal and
informal (e.g. creation of non-project fields) response to land tenure policies, (4) pastoralist - agriculturist
interactions as well as the (5) literacy levels and financial management capacity of the different groups
with which they work.
49.  For all the above reasons it is absolutely critical that there be at Office du Niger a socio-
environmental unit to: (i) manage the ON socio-environmental actions in collaboration with key
Government agencies, NGOs' and the private sector; and (ii) to disseminate ON lessons learned to small-
scale irrigation. This unit should be capable of processing socio-environmental information on key policy
issues and working with project administrators to respond to the resulting analyses. Such a unit is needed
to "export" some of the successful lessons learned from the Office du Niger - such as lessons learned
from the new gender initiatives that were started in 1994-to the small-scale irrigation schemes that are
grappling with similar issues. This unit would be involved in the following activities:
Education and training measures required in large-scale irrigation development at ON
offering a series of environmental and social assessment and monitoring training workshops for
administrative and extension staff;
25



* offering "training of trainer" workshops for farmer leaders on water conservation and gender
sensitivity;
* introducing new, and revising existing, training modules for extension workers to better address
environmental and environmental health themes, including HIV/AIDS;
* facilitating BS, MS and Ph.D. level research on key environmental, social, and institutional
themes at ON (when properly supervised by the student's professor and guided by a good
proposal this type of student research can provide in-depth information on key social and
environmental issues in the zone).
Stakeholder consultation andpublic awareness in large-scale irrigation development
* understanding the formal and informal communication channels through which the different
groups of people affected by the project receive information prior to launching the large-scale
water safety and public health campaign (given the ample evidence that women and men receive
and process information in very different ways, the unit will give special attention to the observed
gender differences);
* ensuring the carrying out of operationally based studies and analyses, planned as part of the
project, needed to provide the basis for developing an improved system of two way
communication with livestock herders and owners regarding any regulations on livestock herding
control in the zone (the same issues of communications, consultations, and sustainability apply to
fisherfolk within the project area);
* promoting many of the same themes through various small grants (funds provided under the
project) that will provide training and teaching materials for basic literacy trainers, elementary
and high school teachers, and local leaders in the ON zone;
* distributing simple flyers to promote STD/AIDS awareness in conjunction with the various
training programs.
Promotion offemale extension agents and support for women groups
* designing measures aimed at increasing the number of female agents (assistants, vulgarisateurs,
animatrices, etc.) with a strong knowledge of local production systems in the area and the ability
to work effectively with both women and men. It remains doubtful that there will be a substantial
increase in the number of female agents under current conditions of recruitment to the training
institutions and assignment of staff to field positions within the extension service. Through the
forthcoming PASAOP, therefore, a reevaluation of extension training will be carried out, both as
to the institutional design and structuring of extension work most broadly understood, the
curriculum and processes of recruitment, and the throughput of training institutions.
* strengthening the capacity of women's groups to participate in infrastructure development and
management and promoting awareness of health and environmental issues by encouraging informal
women's groups (as well as men) to register formally and take advantage of credit, land leases, and
extension opportunities.
Liaison between ON and other agencies regarding environmental issues
26



collaborating with the proposed National Niger River Basin Commission and other agencies
involved in environmental and social policy.
2 - Environmental and social capacity building in small-scale irrigation development
50.  Implementing the small-scale irrigation sub-component involves a wide range of actors: farmers,
NGOs, local consulting firms, government agencies, and AGETIER. This will necessitate defining clear
environmental and social criteria, and a strong capacity building program:
Environmental and social criteria
51.  These will be needed for the selection, construction and operation of small-scale irrigation projects
(to incorporated in the Implementation Manual).
Capacity building
52.  This will be needed at all levels:
for local government agencies to screen, supervise, and monitor social and environmental
assessments in irrigation, in collaboration with AGETIER (the agency that will be delegated the
management of this sub-component's execution). This will enable MDR to resolve local land and
water access conflicts, organize participatory land use planning with all stakeholders, including
traditional use rights, and do the screening, preparation and evaluation of small EA studies.
for grassroots groups (NGOs, CBOs, small consulting firms) to conduct social, environmental,
and gender analyses. This type of training is considered necessary to ensure that grassroots
organizations who prepare project proposals (with assistance for developing EAs provided by the
Ministry of Rural Development) have the necessary expertise to prepare these proposals
according to the strict guidelines developed by the project. These guidelines stipulate the key
technical issues to be respected as well as the need for a detailed stakeholder analysis including a
detailed plan for how they plan to address environmental and gender issues, and the implications
of the project for the most vulnerable village groups.
for local leaders and agricultural extension staff at all levels, through gender sensitivity
workshops for males and females, in conjunction with the preparation of project proposals as a
strategy for increasing female participation in this process;
for beneficiary groups to improve their project proposals by assisting them to include gender
issues and the impact of the project on the most vulnerable groups in the plan;
for women farmers and women's groups to participate in the design and implementation of the
small irrigation projects by:
a) taking advantage of the reduction of some of their labor constraints to participation in basic
literacy programs;
b) supporting gender sensitivity training courses, similar to the ones taught at ON in the late
1990s, for male and female farmers, local leaders, extension agents, NGO and government
administrators.
c) reserving elected seats on all water user and agricultural extension groups for women;
27



d) "training up" women agents, especially those from minority ethnic groups, many of whom
may have lower educational standards than those normally required for entry to extension
training schools; and
e) setting aside ten percent of the budget for small irrigated perimeters to be accessed by
women's groups, either replenishing that pool if it is used up or reallocating any unused
balance.
3 - Environmental and social capacity building in rural road rehabilitation
53.  There is a need to strengthen the DNTP (which is charged with environmental oversight of all
roads) to screen, supervise, and monitor implementation of Social and Environmental Assessments for
rural roads. (The TOR are prepared by DNACPN). Such an assessment would cover: (a) conducting an
in-depth stakeholder analysis to identify the key interlocutors in two way dialogues over siting and
environmental issues; and (b) developing TOR for public health presentations by the appropriate NGOs or
units of the regional health system for workers and local leaders in the in project areas.
54.  Two types of training are envisioned:
i) providing technical assistance to the appropriate training facilities within the Ministry to enable
them to develop the types of fee-based short-term training courses that NGOs and consulting
firms need to conduct environmental and social assessments; and
ii) supporting on the job and short-term international certificate-granting training courses
necessary for NGOs and small consulting firms necessary to conduct environmental and social
assessments and translate these results into realistic road designs and regional planning. This
training should be organized for a small group of the most relevant DNTP, NGO and local
consulting firm technicians involved in the initial design for this project component.
55.  Although the immediate output of this training is to strengthen the effective execution of the
identified roads, the training programs should produce a series of training modules which could be useful
to DNTP and to Public Health workers, and the private consulting firms and NGOs that subcontract with
them for specific functions.
4 - Environmental and social capacity building in rural water supply and sanitation
56.  One key feature of the rural water supply and sanitation component is the emphasis on creating
community based management systems to establish and collect the user fees needed to repair and replace
the water and sanitation infrastructure over time. In light of the negligible direct environmental impacts
of the component, the major focus of the ESMP for this component is to develop Community Based
Organization (CBO) capacity by equipping them with management and accounting tools. Given the
demonstrated importance of women in managing health and sanitation infrastructure, the major focus of
the socio-environmental measures is on women.
57.  Two major levels of institutional capacity building and training are envisioned. The first involves
institutional, training and education innovations that are designed to strengthen the number and capacity
of women's groups to:
* assist with the appropriate siting7 and design of water supply and sanitation infrastructure in
cooperation with men of the same communities;
7 The long distances between villages and health facilities was an important social constraint identified by women farmers in the
baseline studies.
28



* strengthen women's capacity to pay user fees by providing project support to the
development of more diversified income opportunities for women. This issue of diversified
income earning is critical for women farmers given the strong evidence from Mali and other
areas of Africa that this income facilitates women's willingness and ability to pay the user
fees throughout the year;
* add environmental and environmental health themes (including HIV/STD) to basic literacy
courses for men and women.
58.  The second level of training and institutional development involves strengthening the capacity of
the DNH and the NGOs and small consulting firms subcontracting for specific projects. Proposals
include:
*  strengthen the capacity of DNH to develop participatory management plans for rural water and
sanitation facilities increasing the number of women employed at all levels of the agency;
* conduct gender sensitivity workshops for staff of DNH at all levels involved in project
implementation;
* include short information sessions/pamphlets promoting AIDS and STD awareness whenever
possible in NRIP sponsored training workshops and public awareness campaigns; and
* sponsor on the job training courses on Social and Environmental Assessments for DNH and
selected NGOs
5 - Environmental and social capacity building of AGETIER
59.  AGETIER is the newly created agency in charge of managing technical studies and civil works.
The ESMP aims to train the AGETIER staff in screening, monitoring of implementation and evaluation
of Environmental and Social Assessments and ensure that AGETIER coopts appropriate expertise on
social and environmental issues during review and evaluation of all relevant bids for procurement of
services. The TOR are prepared by DNACPN. The training involves the development of training
modules in environmental and social assessments. These measures will allow AGETIER to "backstop"
the small-scale irrigation and well water components of the project by helping them to identify and
contract the types of technical assistance and training programs needed in social and environmental
assessments, project monitoring and evaluation.
B) Other Environmental and Social Actions to be carried out under NRIP
Actions Related to NRIP as a Whole
* Strengthening the Ministry in Charge of the Environment. Most of the high priority
environmental and social issues being confronted by the project as a whole are inherently multi-
sectoral in their nature and complexity. These in turn require a complex multi-sector and multi-
institutional approach to the development of mitigating measures with a wide variety of partners,
and strong and imaginative coordination of efforts. There is a need to strengthen the Ministry of
Environment to take on this special role for NRIP. A special program to strengthen the Ministry
of Environment to supervise, manage, and monitor the Socio-Environment Program of NRIP is
therefore included in the ESMP and integrated in the Socio-environment component of the project.
* Creating a consultative forum for Delta - a "Committee of Sponsoring Agencies ". A vital step to
achieving partnerships with other World Bank supported projects and with bilateral donors
(Dutch and French) in the areas of environmental and social sustainability is that the terms of all
29



complementary activities, by government, civil society, and donor-supported activity in the
project zone be clearly understood regarding financial commitment, division of labor, and
proposed synergies. There is a need for a "comprehensive development framework" for the Delta
over the next decade and beyond. One administrative model for this type of coordination would
be to create some sort of "Committee of Sponsoring Agencies" similar to the highly successful
Onchocerciasis Control Program (OCP) Committee of Sponsoring agencies (of which Mali was a
partner) and to require twice-yearly meetings.
Setting up a panel of experts. In addition, a Panel of Experts should be set up to provide a scientific
beacon to guide the project in responding to a special environmental and social crises and
challenges it may encounter. Such a panel, of the type frequently set up for large hydro projects,
would provide useful guidance and essential intellectual and systematic "glue" for the actions of
multiple partners in the zone. Creating such a panel offers a much-needed external mechanism
for regular evaluation of the effectiveness of the array of environmental and social programs
which will increase government's and donors' confidence in, and willingness to continue,
investing in the program.
Actions related to large-scale irrigation development at ON
60.  Regulatory actions. Some of the reinforcing regulatory activities that are funded include:
*  updating of the environmental and social clauses in contracts with contractors in ways that
require them to: (a) comply with project environmental guidelines in construction8, (b)
collaborate with local populations and extension staff in the design of worker housing,
administrative and storage facilities that can be transferred to the local population after
construction; and (c) to provide all workers and staff with STD and AIDS awareness training.
* reviewing Mali's international commitments in Niger River Basin conventions and in international
environmental conventions such as RAMSAR to provide water for specific purposes, both nationally
and internationally
61.  Studies and action programs. Twelve interrelated studies and action programs have been
identified that will be contracted by mixed national and international teams under the supervision of the
Ministry in charge of the Environment in collaboration with the new socio-environmental unit of the ON.
These studies provide the baseline from which more informed project policies for water resource and land
use management, pasture management, land tenure and extension policies will be developed to enhance
project sustainability. The effective implementation of these frameworks during the second phase of the
APL would solve or improve some of the long outstanding (more than 40 years) environmental, health
and social issues and would definitely reduce poverty and improve livelihoods. Funding is included in
NRIP-I under the heading "Investments" below, to implement the most urgent actions.
62.  Land and Water Resource Management.
Studies and analyses required to better manage the physical resource base are as follows:
*  conduct a drainage system study in the ON zone;
*  make a rapid baseline survey of soil salinity/sodicity in the ON irrigated perimeters and monitor
ongoing soil salinization;
*  prepare a plan of actions to address woodland depletion/production in the ON zone of influence;
*  conduct a natural habitat survey of Delta Mort critical areas (fala) and unusual habitats;
8e.g. appropriate sanitation at construction sites, location of construction sites, awareness creation in relation to HIV and other
STDs, free condoms and education in their use, use of local labor to avoid health and social problems and others
30



*  elaborate a water resource strategy for Niger River management, including full environmental
and social flow requirements to maintain downstream ecosystems and fisheries and reduce
impacts on communities and ecosystems;
*  design and carry out a quantitative and qualitative ground water monitoring program in the ON
drainage area, including and providing recommendations for wells and borehole sites and a
groundwater management system;
*  strengthen ongoing IPM research, in collaboration with regional FAO effort;
*  conduct an environmental impact assessment of the damage and control of granivorous birds;
*  conduct an environmental impact assessment of the damage and control of water hyacinth and
other aquatic pests; and
*  prepare an action plan to manage excessive livestock numbers, overgrazing, and the rights of
transhumant herders around the ON zone and integrate livestock within the ON irrigation area.
This is undoubtedly one of the most critical and controversial studies to be commissioned.
63.  Relocation.
*  prepare a participatory relocation plan with all villagers that might be interested in moving to
different sites, on the basis of an in-depth stakeholder analysis.
64.  Social and Environmental Assessment, Income Diversification.
*  conduct a social assessment for each of NRIP's large-scale irrigation perimeters. In connection with
the detailed preliminary planning for each area of intervention, conduct a separate, detailedsocio-
economic and environmental assessment for each of the proposed intervention areas that includes: (a)
an analysis of the different social groups affected with a special emphasis on how the most
vulnerable groups and women are likely to be affected; (b) an analysis of the current and project
impact of the project on different categories of crop and non-crop income earning; (c) a more specific
gender impact analysis to understand differentiated socioeconomic impacts and implications; (d) an
analysis of lessons leamed from previous experiences in the ON and similar types of
irrigation/settlement projects worldwide.
*  conduct a study of income diversification for households at different stages of settlement (e.g.
second and third generation vs. new arrivals) and different ethnic groups as a basis for developing
more realistic ON policies regarding women farmers, vegetable gardening, non-farm
employment, and secondary and tertiary urban center development. Given the evidence from
Mali, the 11 country OCP zone, and worldwide, that greater income diversity increases settlers
willingness and ability to invest in more sustainable land use practices and improves overall settler
welfare, a separate study is foreseen on this topic. Based on an analysis, the report will develop a list
of recommendations for how project planners can work with regional authorities encourage the types
of income diversification, secondary, and tertiary urban center development that are needed to
stabilize income growth and investment in the zone. Although the focus of the analysis is on patterns
of diversification in the past, the primary focus of the study is to develop a list of recommendations
for the phased complementary development of urban infrastructure and planning in the future.
65.  Investments. Based on the above studies, the project foresees a number of additional investments
that will need to be funded under the socio-environment project component. These include:
*  defining, installing, and monitoring health related facilities and equipment in collaboration with
National Health Improvement Project;
*  identifying secondary and tertiary urban investments for project funding in NRIP-II that are
anticipated due to project-related income growth and project induced population growth; and
*  implementing recommendations from studies and action program above program.
31



Actions related to small-scale irrigation development
66.  Regulatory Actions. Given the novelty of the proposed innovations, especially those regarding
gender, it is recommended that the contracts of the NGOs and consulting firms who are engaged to
perform key project functions include clauses which require them to abide by the same rules concerning
gender equity that are being applied to the government extension agents and CBOs. The contracts should
include clauses, which clarify the expectations of the project for the NGO subcontractors vis-a-vis their
deployment to address the environmental and social issues associated with the projects. There is a need to
update the environmental and social clauses in contracts with contractors in ways that require them to: (a)
comply with project environmental guidelines in construction, (b) collaborate with local populations and
extension staff in the design of worker housing, administrative and storage facilities that can be
transferred to the local population after construction; and (c) to provide all workers and staff with STD
and HIV/AIDS awareness training.
67.  Two other priority legal actions that are envisioned under the terms of the socio-environment
component include:
* offer concrete positive incentives to Government and NGO partners for measurable achievements
in gender patterns of participation and monitoring that go beyond the mere monitoring of
objectives.
*  require project proposals to include a concrete provision for vulnerable groups including the aged
*without children and female headed households based other results of the social assessment.
68.  Studies and action programs. Women in the project zone say that some new technologies being
developed are not compatible with their roles in their households and families. Given the critical role of
women in most operations connected with the irrigated rice schemes, it is recommended that the project
sub-component dealing with applied research be expanded to address the gender appropriateness of the
different technologies being tested.
69.  Four other operational background studies/documents considered necessary to conduct prior to and
in conjunction with the initial launching of the project proposals include:
-  Conduct perimeter-specific Environmental and Social Assessments. This should include a
disaggregated stakeholder analysis identifying: a.) groups directly affected as beneficiaries, or
potentially adversely affected (poverty groups, gender differentials, and other vulnerable groups);
b.) others who are affected by or can influence project success or failure, i.e. local governments,
NGOs, farmers associations, women's organizations, and other special interest groups
*  Prepare a plan of actions to facilitate women's rights to project land based on study of project and
non-project (traditional) land tenure systems and 'lessons learned' from the ON experience
*  Conduct market studies to identify secondary crops (like vegetables in the ON scheme) that are
suitable for women to grow as counter-season crops
*  Require all monitoring, planning and evaluation to be gender disaggregated and strengthen the
capacity of relevant staff in the projects and the sponsoring organizations to do so
Actions related to rural roads
70.  Regulatory actions, Studies and Analyses. The main legal activities include the updating of the
environmental and social clauses in contracts with contractors in ways that require them to: (a) comply
with project environmental guidelines in construction, (b) to provide all workers and staff with STD and
32



HIV/AIDS awareness training. Each contract with the DNTP will include various clauses which define
these different responsibilities, including a HIV prevention component.
71.  Road-section-specific Environmental and Social Assessments will be undertaken that include in-
depth disaggregated stakeholder analyses, identifying: a.) groups directly affected as beneficiaries, or
potentially adversely affected (poverty groups, gender differentials, and other vulnerable groups); b.)
others who are affected by or can influence project success or failure, i.e. local governments, NGOs,
farmers associations, women's organizations, and other special interest groups.
72.  The introduction of environmental and social criteria in the National Strategy for Rural Roads is
expected to improve the selection and prioritization of road rehabilitation and maintenance.
Actions related to rural water supply
73.  Regulatory Actions. To strengthen their commitment to respecting social and gender issues, the
project requires that the subcontracting NGOs to outline their commitment to gender equity and hiring,
monitoring and evaluation social assessment and gender as part of the written contracts. The same
contracts will include a detailed plan for the partitioning of NGOs activities between the project's
investment and social/management support functions.
74.  Studies Analyses. For each lot of water supply and sanitation actions to be contracted outspecific
Environmental and Social Assessments will be undertaken that are to include in-depth disaggregated
stakeholder analyses. In addition, four operational studies are considered necessary background
documents to the formulation of scheme policies:
1. Facilitate local villages visiting successful water point management programs as a background to
developing their own management plans
2. Add environmental and environmental health themes to the curriculum of basic literacy courses for
men and women
3. Include provisions in the project component to stimulate women water management associations
4. Conduct an analysis of communication channels to improve communication between DNH and
key communities on rural water supply and sanitation programs.
C) Synopsis of NRIP's ESMP
75.  An overview of the ESMP is given in the tables of the two figures below. Table 8 summarizes all
socio-environmental measures to be integrated in existing project components.
33



Table 8               NRIP's Environmental and Social Management Plan
Socio-          Type of        Actions of Socio-Environment Project Component                                                                          Budget       Institutional
Environment   action                                                                                                                                   In US $      Responsibility
Component
Related to      Institutional  Strengthen the Capacity of the Services of the Ministry in charge of the Environment to enable them to supervise the    200,000      NRIP/DNACPN
NRIP project                   implementation of the Actions of the Socio-Environment Project Component of the NRIP (a Memorandum of Understanding
as a whole                     will be signed with the Ministry of Environment for this purpose).
Contract renowned international and national experts on a demand driven basis to provide advice on the implementation of the   200,000  NRIP/DNACPN
NRIP Socio-Environment Project Component.
Selection criteria for Social Intermediaries for implementation of the NRIP activities will include (i) the ability to work closely   PM*  NRIP
and appropriately with both men and women, and (ii) knowledge of local society and production systems.
Project monitoring and other reporting for all activities will be disaggregated on all appropriate criteria by gender   PM          NRIP
Regulatory    Provide Technical and Methodological Support to implement the National Action Plan for Integrated Water Resources Management. 1,300,000   NRIP/DNH
Related to ON   Institutional  Strengthen the Capacity of the Service for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Office du Niger to (i) manage the implementation   360,000  ON
large scale                    of the Actions of the Social and Environmental Action Plan in collaboration with the principal Government Agencies, NGOs
irrig. dev.                    and the private sector; and (ii) to disseminate the lessons learned in the ON to the small-scale irrigation.
Strengthen the management capacity of agricultural professional women and youth organizations to participate in infrastructure  65,000  ON/APCAM
management.
Through PASAOP, stimulate the increase in recruitment of female agricultural extension agents, so that 25% of the yearly  PM         ON
vacancies are filled by women in 2005.
..   .     ....._ . .     .   __ .. . ........... . .... . ............   . ... . .......... .........-... ..........................   ..... .... .........   ...... ..... .. ............................ .......  ....  -..................................................      ..........  ....- - ....       ....     ..     ..          . . ....   ......   .   ...      ...............
Regulatory    Ensure that contracts with construction contractors include appropriate environmental and social protection clauses, so that (a)   20,000  NRIP/DNACPN
they comply with project environmental guidelines, (b) collaborate with local populations and ON and project staff in the
design of worker housing, administrative and storage facilities such that "temporary" facilities can be transferred to appropriate
local uses at the completion of the works, and (c) provide all workers and staff with STD and AIDS awareness training.
tudies       Conduct a drainage system study in the ON drainage area.                                                                150,000      ON
Analyses/
Follow-up     Establish a baseline on soil salinity/sodicity in the ON irrigated perimeters that covers the entire irrigated system, and design  60,000  ON
pilot         and implement a strategy for long-term monitoring covering each site at appropriate intervals.
investments
Prepare an action plan to address woodland depletion/production in the ON zone of influence, based on community driven  30,000      ON
plans in connection with PGRN, including especially settlements that are growing through voluntary in-migration.
34



Socio-         Type of        Actions of Socio-Environment Project Component                                                                    Budget       Institutional
Environment   action                                                                                                                            In US $     Responsibility
Component
As part of compensatory actions for impacts by the NRIP on natural habitat, prepare an action plan to protect biodiversity in the 50,000  ON
ON zone and its zone of influence (e.g. through establishment of certain protected areas).
Evaluate downstream impacts on ecosystems and communities of the Office du Niger water off-take in the Niger River,  PM       ON
especially during the dry season and recommend mitigation measures to maintain existing ecosystems and fisheries and reduce
impacts on communities and irrigation systems downstream (e.g. establishment of a mandatory environmental and social
minimum flow).
Design and carry out a groundwater quality and quality management and monitoring program in the ON area, including and  70,000  NRIP/DNII
provide recommendations for siting of wells and borehole, and the overall use of groundwater and its management.
Support the ongoing IPM activity in the ON, which is supported by the FAO and especially disseminate the best practices for   420,000  ON
IPM in the entire ON area.
Review prior and ongoing studies and actions with respect to the environmental and economic impact of granivorous birds, and  90,000  NRIP/DNAMR
devise and implement a pilot action plan based on prior successful results in bird control or on new appropriate control
technologies.
Review prior and ongoing studies and actions with respect to the control of water hyacinth and other aquatic pests, and devise   80,000  NRIP/ON
and implement a pilot action plan based on established results or on new and/or appropriate technologies.
Prepare a livestock management action plan to integrate and manage livestock numbers as projected under the new conditions  400,000  ON/DNAER
in the zone brought about by project activities and spontaneous and induced impacts in the ON zone: (i) undertake priority
actions in the ON irrigation area and in the surrounding areas in phase I of the NRIP, such as participatory land use
zoning/planning, information and awareness creation (see action ....), participatory planning and establishment and clear
marking of livestock trails and corridors, elaboration of irrigation developmenit schemes and plans, which integrate livestock,
livestock watering points, establishment of fodder banks of agricultural by-products and dung, establishment of parking places
for livestock within the ON system; and (ii) in Phase 11 of the NRIP implement the participatory developed plans such as the
community driven livestock management plans for the areas of influence of the ON, including the livestock for the sedentary
pastoralists, the transhumance livestock and the livestock of the irrigators, management of the integrated livestock-irrigation
systems, fodder banks, commercialization, information and awareness creation.
Execute the proposed Resettlement Plan proposed for the project in the light of (a) the voluntary moves proposed by inhabitants 800,000  ON
of the four primary villages affected by the project, (b) the anticipated in-migration of members of other villages seeking
residential/homestead sites near the irrigated areas they will be allocated, and (c) adjusting the tentative zoning proposed in the
land use management section of the "Schema Directeur" to enable appropriate and participatory siting and social/physical
infrastructure for the new arrivals into the project areas
35



Socio-         Type of        Actions of Socio-Environment Project Component                                                                    Budget      Institutional
Environment   action                                                                                                                            In US $     Responsibility
Component
Following up on the recommendations of the Schema Directeur and the activities of other projects intervening in the project  150,000  ON
zone, formulate and execute pilot activities to diversify incomes for project zone inhabitants. For example (a) the pursuit of on
and off-farm innovation in agricultural production and processing, and (b) the promotion of access to off-farm income
opportunities.
Carry out an socio-economic study and identify the needs and constraints of smallholders and rural immigrants and reach a  30,000  ON
consensus on how the land should be managed and recommend new procedures and conditions of access to land for vulnerable
groups, rural credit, agricultural inputs and other services.
Execute a study to update level of payment for the Water Tax.                                                     100,000     ON
Investments  Define needs and encourage the accessing of health facilities and programs under the National Health strategy, encouraging  60,000  NRIP/DNSP
especially the newly enlarged and resettled communities around the irrigated perimeters to participate in these demand-driven
actions (a Memorandum of Understanding will be signed with the Ministry of Health for this purpose).
Ensure that special health monitoring (e.g. epidemiological surveys) and control activities (e.g. mass treatments for bilharzia    50,000  NRIP/INRSP
and promotion of impregnated mosquito bednets with non-toxic pesticides), especially with respect to malaria and
schistosomiasis, are undertaken in the irrigated areas created, rehabilitated or extended under the project
Training      Provide staff of NGOs, Malian consulting firms, and local government agencies with short-term level training programs on key  120,000  ON
and          issues such as irrigation water management, environmental and socio-economic impact analysis, and environmental health.
Education
Organize training workshops for farmers leaders on irrigation water management and ensure balanced gender participation  120,000  ON
Introduce modules on environment and environmental health issues (including HIV/STDS awareness) into the continuing  120,000   ON
education of extension staff, school teachers and teachers of the basic literacy programs, and the chiefs of the functional
alphabetization programs in the ON area.
In the context of the PASAOP, provide grants to facilitate student research in practical problems and issues facing the ON and   PM  ON
DNAER. This would fit in a strategy for identifying talented individuals for new staff positions and generating broader Malian
knowledge of the ON, by linking to Malian higher educational institutions. Ensure that research projects selected are
operationally oriented and serve the diversity of stakeholder interests, especially those within the farming communities
themselves.
Staiehoider  Develop public information and awareness campaigns for all stakeholders in the livestock sector about environmentaily a d  90M.. _   _     _R .
consultation   socially sustainable livestock management practices based on the results of the participatory developed livestock management
and public   action plan (see "Studies" below).
awareness
36



Socio-         Type of       Actions of Socio-Environment Project Component                                                                 Budget    Institutional
Environment   action                                                                                                                        In US $     Responsibility
Component
Conduct water safety (quality of potable water) and public health campaigns (water-borne diseases, HIV/AIDS and STDs) for ON   60,000  NRIP/DNSP/ON
inhabitants through a cascading education system by involving local government agencies, local leaders and extension services,
ensuring gender participation in the campaigns.
Include short information sessions/pamphlets promoting HIV/AIDS and STD awareness, whenever possible in NRIP-  60,000      NRIP/DNSP/ON
sponsored training workshops and public awareness campaigns.
Related to     Institutional  Strengthen the Capacity of DNACPN and AGETIER at local level to screen, prepare TORs, supervise, and monitor  PM          NRIP
Small-scale                 implementation of Social and Environmental Assessments in irrigation and water supply.
irrigation
development
Include environmental and social criteria, including gender issues, in the selection and the preparation process for small-scale   PM  NRIP/DNAER
irrigation perimeters
Provide women in the small-scale perimeter areas with support for investment activities and management capacity building,  300,000  NRIP/DNAMR
promoting income generating activities, for example in investment in agricultural and non-agricultural income activities.
In the context of the PASAOP, encourage the recruitment of female extension agents, so that in the year 2005, 25% of the  PM  PASAOP
yearly extension service vacancies are filled by women and women agents are available for service in the small-scale irrigated
areas.
Recommend that seats be reserved for women on all water user associations and other community based production groups.    PM  NRIP/DNAMR
Reserve ten percent (10%) of the funding for small-scale perimeters for accessing by women's groups, returning such reserved  PM  NRIP
funds to the general pool if they are not used.
Regulatory   Ensure that construction contractors (a) comply with project environmental guidelines, and (b) provide all workers and higher  PM  NRIP/AGETIER
level staff with STD and HIV/AIDS awareness training.                                                                      NNACPN/DNAI
Studies      Conduct perimeter-specific Environmental, Social and Gender Assessments, with the participation of the population in  40,000  NRIP/DNAER
Analyses     agreement with the Law no: 99-189/P-RM of July 5, 1999, which establishes the EA process in Mali, and for which the
Ministry of Environment is responsible.
Prepare a social analysis of vulnerable groups, of women in particular, to determine how these vulnerable groups can best  40,000  NRIP/DNAER
benefit from improved rural infrastructure and to prepare an action plan to facilitate women's rights to land in the small-scale
irrigation systems, based on study of the good practice and "lessons learned" in the small-scale irrigation area.
37



Socio-           Type of         Actions of Socio-Environment Project Component                                                                                  Budget        Institutional
Environment   action                                                                                                                                             In US $       Responsibility
Component
Training        Conduct gender sensitivity workshops for male and female leaders of local community groups who benefit from the small-scale  120,000         NRIP/DNAMR
and             irrigation systems, members of the management committees, with a view to ensuring that there is a robust participation by
Education      women in the small-scale irrigation projects proposed and that the funds set aside for women's group investments is fully
utilized
Provide staff of NGOs, Malian consulting firms, and local government agencies with short-term certificate-level training
programs on key issues such as irrigation water conservation, environmental and socio-economic impact analysis, and             150,000      NRIP/DNAER
environmental health, Social and Environmental Assessment, Gender Analysis, Project Monitoring and Evaluation.
Investments   Ensure that special health monitoring (e.g. epidemiological surveys) and control activities (e.g. mass treatments for bilharzia  50,000        NRIP/INRSP
and promotion of impregnated mosquito bednets with non-toxic pesticides), especially with respect to malaria and
schistosomiasis, are undertaken in the small-scale irrigated areas created, rehabilitated or extended under the project.
Related to       Institutional  Assess the capacity of DNTP to screen, prepare TORs, supervise, and monitor the implementation of the Social and                 90,000       NRIP/DNTP
Rural road                       Environmental Assessments for rural roads, and strengthen capacity as needed.
rehabilitation
Ensure that the Environmental and Social Assessments conducted for rural roads include a stakeholder analysis, and that key
local organizations participate in project preparation and design, including the analysis and mitigation issues, including STDs    PM        NRIP/DNTP
and HIV/AIDS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .    .....  . ..   __ .. .     . .... . ....... .... .. _.. _.._.._.  _ ._ ...... ..... . . . ... ..........................   ....   ...  ...  -  .. .   ......... ............. . .... .    ........... ..... ............ .... . ..........  _.. ........   ............   ........  ...      ........    ......      ......................
Regulatory    Ensure that contractors: (a) comply with project environmental guidelines, (b) provide all workers and higher level staff with   50,000        NRIP/DNSP
STD and HIV/AIDS awareness training.
Introduce simplified screening criteria and methods for environmental and social issues in the National Rural Transport        PM            NRIP/DNTP/
Strategy                                                                                                                                     DNACPN
. . . . ...   ..   .....    ..     . . ..      ....   . ............   ... . . ..   ............. ......._ - -....     .. .     ..    ............................_    ..       ..    ..    .........._._ ........................     .......    ......    ........    ..    .. _. _ ...   .  ..    .. ..........................-......   ................. ............ ...........
Training        Provide staff of NGOs, Malian consulting firms, and local government agencies with short-term level training programs on key  80,000         NRIP/DNACPN
and             issues such as environmental and socio-economic impact analysis, and environmental health, Social and Environmental
Education      Assessment, Gender Analysis, Project Monitoring and Evaluation.
Sponsor on-the-job training in Social and Environmental Assessment, gender analysis, project monitoring, and evaluation to     50,000        NRIP/DNACPN
DNTP and its contractors.
Related to       Institutional  Ensure that women, youth and men acquire the capacity to, and are enabled to, assist with the appropriate siting and design of   PM            NRIP/DNH
Rural water                      water supply and sanitation infrastructure in the villages.
supply and
sanitation
Promote that women and youth obtain responsible posts in the water point management committees.                                PM            NRIP/DNH
38



Socio-              Type of          Actions of Socio-Environment Project Component                                                                                                   Budget         Institutional
Environment    action                                                                                                                                                                 In US $        Responsibility
Component
Regulatory       Ensure that contractors: (a) comply with project environmental guidelines, and (b) provide all workers and higher level staff                    PM             NRIP/DNH/
with STD and HIV/AIDS awareness training.                                                                                                                      DNACPN
Ensure that the organizations which serve as social intermediaries for this program  assist local communities to formulate and                  PM             NRIP/DNH/
implement sustainable management plans for their village's water and sanitation facilities.                                                                    DNACPN
Ensure that environmental, social and hygiene related  issues are addressed during the preparation of each lot of water supply                  PM             NRIPIDNH/
and sanitation actions to be contracted out and that they are part of the contract.                                                                            DNACPN
Enable representatives of local villages, men and women, to visit successful water point management programs once their                         15,000         NRIP/DNH/
own management plan has been accepted for implementation                                                                                                       DNACPN/DNSP
Include in the project component provisions to ensure that water management associations and committees are gender                              PM             NRIP/DNH/
balanced.                                                                                                                                                      DNACPN
..             ..........    ....   - - -    .       .........  ..........    ...................        ...........I....................  .....   ....     ....     .....     .      .   ..........      .... ........   ................................... .  .. ........ .  . ........... - ..  - - ---.   .    .   .... .  ......... .   ..  ....  . ..... . ..........
Training          Stress the importance of environmental sanitation in hygiene education programs carried out in association with this                            80,000         NRIP/DNH/
and              component.                                                                                                                                                      DNACPN
Education
Conduct gender sensitivity workshops for staff of DNH at all levels involved in project implementation.                                         80,000         NRIP/DNH
Sponsor on-the-job training courses on Social and Environmental Assessments for the Government Services involved, selected   80,000                            NRIP/DNACPN
NGOs and Malian consultants involved in Environmental and Social Assessment.
Strengthen the capacity of the Water Quality Laboratory of DNH, which would be used as a Reference Laboratory in Mali.                          300,000        NRIP/DNH
AGETIER             Institutional   Ensure that AGETIER coopts appropriate expertise on social and environmental issues during the review and evaluation of all    PM                                NRIP
relevant bids for the procurement of services.
.   ... .   __  _ ........ , .......... .. _ .... _ ....... ..... ....... .................................. . ........   .....    ................... .......   ................... .   .... ..... ...........    .............    .. ..- ............................. ................... ................................. . . .. ... ......................... ...................... ... ......................
Training         To ensure appropriate AGETIER capacities for procurement evaluation, develop training modules and train staff on                                 15,000         NRIP
and              environmental and social assessments, screening, preparation of TORs, monitoring and evaluation of implementation of
Education        environmental and social management plans and environmental and social audit/evaluation.
[TOTAL                                                                                                                                                                               16,900,000
* PM = Pour Memoire (For Memory).
39



VI. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR NRIP'S ESMP
76.  The institutional, financial, and monitoring requirements of the ESMP are discussed below.
A) Institutional responsibilities
77.  the Ministry charge of the Environment has overall supervisory responsibility for implementation
NRIP's EMP, in collaboration with the Program Coordination Committee (which offers overall guidance
and oversight to NRIP's implementation), and other Government agencies concerned with the particular
issues in question (e.g. health).
78.  Many actions will actually be carried out by the private sector, NGOs, consulting firms, consultants
and other specialized entities. These will render their services to local communities and local
governments in the implementation of environmental actions. The implementation arrangements are
flexible to ensure effectiveness, with feedback mechanisms through which stakeholders are informed and
can in turn contribute to the analysis and decision-making process. Specific technical responsibilities are
listed in the Table 9 below.
79.  The ESMP, which is aimed at strengthening the public and private sectors, will comprise training
and technical assistance. The training program will be detailed in the Project Implementation Manual.
The training program will be managed by NGOs or specialized firms familiar with participatory
techniques and institution building support. Technical assistance, also provided through firms to ensure
work quality, will focus on the technical aspects: (a) preparing technical specifications; (b) preparing
guidelines for contract management (c) providing assistance to local consultants and NGOs; (f) designing
the public awareness campaigns; (g) identifying private actors and NGOs and setting up cooperation
arrangements between them and the public actors; and (h) monitoring the implementation by NGOs and
organizing periodic evaluations.
Table 9    Institutional responsibility for implementation of NRIP's ESMIP
Component                  Type of action                  Institutional responsibility
NRIP as a whole            Institution building            DNACPN
ON large scale irrigation  Regulatory                      DNACPN/ON
Studies / Analyses             DNACPN/ON
Investments                    DNACPN/ON
Small-scale irrigation     Regulatory                      DNACPN/AGETIER
Studies / Analyses             DNACPN/AGETIER
Investments                    DNACPN/AGETIER
Rural road rehabilitation  Regulatory                      DNACPN/DNTP
Studies / Analyses             DNACPN/DNTP
Rural water supply and     Regulatory                      DNACPN/AGETIER
sanitation                 Studies / Analyses              DNACPN/AGETIER
40



B) Environmental and social monitoring
80.  All social and environmental actions are linked to project components and their performance
indicators. Adequate resources have been earmarked in the ESMP to develop training modules and train
staff, at ON, at local offices of MDR, at DNH, at DNTP, and AGETIER to monitor and evaluate
environmental and social achievements. Increased environmental and social monitoring by ON staff will
also be facilitated by financial and technical support from the Dutch cooperation.
81.  There is a definite need to establish a comprehensive participatory monitoring and evaluation
framework in the early phases of the project in close collaboration with trained staff of the above
agencies, which will be responsible for environmental and social monitoring and evaluation. In this
process, explicit environmental and social indicators need to be identified to better monitor and
benchmark achievements that are measurable, concrete and tangible. It is essential that all monitoring
and evaluation be gender disaggregated. The ESMP already provides for strengthening the capacity of
relevant staff in the project components and the sponsoring organizations to analyze the data themselves,
where appropriate in collaboration with relevant research/statistical organizations in the country, and to
develop presentations/strategies based on this data.
41



