Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20500 MLI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 86.7 MILLION
(US$ 115.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR
THE NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM
June 2, 2000
Rural Development III
Country Department 15
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 07, 2000)
Currency Unit    CFA Franc (CFAF)
673 CFAF  = US$1
US$0.0015  = I CFAF
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIER                 Agency for Rural Works and Equipment (Agence d'Execution de Travaux d'Infrastructures et
d 'Equipements Ruraux)
AGETIPE                 Agency for Public Works and Employment (Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Inter2t Public et
pour I 'Emploi)
APL                     Adaptable Program Loan
CAS                     Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF                    Westem Africa Franc (Franc de la Communaute Financiere Africaine)
CNRA                    National Committee for Agronomic Research (Comite National de la Recherche Agronomique)
CTD                     Decentralized communes (Collectivites territoriales decentralisees)
DNACPN                  National Directorate for Sanitation, and Pollution and Nuisance Control (Direction Nationale de
I 'Assainissement et du Controle de la Polution et des Nuisances)
DNAER                   National Directorate for Rural Works and Equipment (Direction Nationale de I 'Amenagement et de
I 'Equipement Rural)
DNH                     National Directorate for Water (Direction Nationale de I 'Hydraulique)
DNSI                    National Directorate for Statistic and Computing (Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de
l'Informatique)
DNTP                    National Directorate for Public Works (Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics)
DRACPN                  Regional Directorate for Sanitation, and Pollution and Nuisance Control (Direction Regionale de
! 'Assainissement et du Contr6le de la Polution et des Nuisances)
DRAER                   Regional Directorate for Rural Works and Equipment (Direction Regionale de l'Amenagement et
de I 'Equipement Rural)
DIRH                    Regional Directorate for Water (Direction Regionale de I 'Hydraulique)
FAO                     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GOM                     Government of Mali
IDA                     International Development Association
KfW                     German Cooperation Bank (Kredietanstaltfur Wiederaujbau)
M&E                     Monitoring and evaluation
MDR                     Ministry of Rural Development (Ministere du Developpement Rural)
NGO                     Non-Governmental Organization
NRIP                    National Rural Infrastructure Project
O&M                     Operation and maintenance
ON                      Office du Niger
PCC                     Project Coordination Committee
PCU                     Project Coordination Unit
PNIR                    Programme national d'infrastructures rurales (PNIR)
RA                      Road Authority
RWSS                    Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SECO-ONG                Secretariat for Coordinating Non-Governmental Organizations (Secrdtariat pour la Coordination
des Organisations Non-Gouvernementales)
SOE                     Statement of Expenses
TOR                     Terms of Reference
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager: Jean-Paul Chausse
Team Leader: Eustacius Betubiza



MALI
National Rural Infrastructure Project
CONTENTS
A: PROGRAM PURPOSE AND PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ..................                                                                         ................................ 1
Al. PROGRAM  PURPOSE AND PROGRAM  PHASING ......................                                           ...................................................... I
A2.  PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE (SEE ANNEX  1) ...................................................                                      ......................... 2
A3. KEY  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (SEE ANNEX  1) ................................                                        ............................................ 2
B:  STRATEGIC  CONTEXT  ............................................................................ 3
B 1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ......... ........... 3
B2. MAIN  SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY ............................................................................                                          4
B3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES ................................................ 11
B4. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE TRIGGERS FOR SUBSEQUENT LOANS .......................................... 13
C: PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY ......................................................................... 15
C 1. PROJECT COMPONENTS ..........................................................                                                                                  15
C2. KEY  POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT .......................................................  21
C3. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION .......................................................... 21
C4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ..........................................................                                                       22
D: PROJECT RATIONALE .......................................................... 27
DI. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION ..........................................................   27
D2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES .................... 28
D3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN .......................................................................... 28
D4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP .......................................................................... 29
D5. VALUE ADDED  OF BANK  SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT ..........................................................................                                       29
E:  SUMMARY  PROJECT  ANALYSIS  .......................................................................... 30
El. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ..........................................................................                                                                   30
E2. FINANCIAL (SEE ANNEX  5) .......................................................................... 31
E3. TECHNICAL ..........................................................................                                                                           33
E4.  INSTITUTIONAL ........                     .................................................................. 33
ES. SOCIAL .......                    ................................................................... 35
E6. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (ENVIRONMENT CATEGORY B) ........................................................................ 36
E7. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH ..........................................................................                                                              37
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ..........................................................................                                                                 38
F 1. SUSTAINABILITY ........                    ..................................................................  38
F2.  CRITICAL RISKS ........                    .................................................................. 40
F3. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS ..........................................................................                                                      42
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS ..........................................................................                                                                     42
GI. BOARD  CONDITIONS: NONE .......................................................................... 42
G2  CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS .......................................................................... 42
G3. DISBURSEMENT CONDITIONS .......................................................................... 42
H: READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ..........................................................................                                                              43



1. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ................................................... 43
ANNEXES ....................................................44
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY ...................................................                                                                       44
ANNEx 2: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION ................................................... 51
ANNEx 3:  ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS ................................................... 67
ANNEx 4: COST-BENEFIT/COST-EFFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS ................................................... 68
ANNEX 5: FiNANCIAL SUMMARY ...................................................                                                                            77
ANNEX  6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS ................                                                ................................... 80
Table 6A. Procurement Methods ...................................................                                                                     83
Table 6B:  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ...................................................                                    84
Table 6C: Allocation of IDA  Credit Proceeds ................................................... 89
ANNEx 7: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE ................................................... 94
ANNEx 8:  DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE* ................................................... 95
ANNEX 9: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS ...................................................                                                               97
ANNEx 10: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE ...................................................                                                                         99
ANNEx  1:1: LETTER OF  DEVELOPMENT POLICY ................................................... 101
ANNEX 12: ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PLAN ...................................................                                                   110
Maps IBRD 30882 & 30883



v
MALI
National Rural Infrastructure Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Country Departnent 15
Date: June 2, 2000                          Team Leader: Eustacius N. Betubiza (AFTR3)
Country Director: Hasan A. Tuluy (AFC15)    Sector Manager: Jean-Paul Chausse (AFTR3)
Project ID: P041723                         Sector(s): AI - Irrigation & Drainage, TR-Rural Roads,
VY-Environment, WR-Rural Water Supply & Sanitation.
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan    Theme(s): Rural Development, Transport, Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Yes
Program Fitin.cing Data
Estimatedv
Implementation Period
Indicative Financing Plan    vBakFY)                            Borrower
IDA               Others      Total       Commitment   Closing
US$ m       %      US$m        US$ m           Date         Date
APL 1        115.1    82.6    24.2         139.3          FY01        FY06            17.4
APL 2        150.0    83.3    30.0         180.0          FY06        FY11            18.0
Total        265.1    90.8    54.2         319.3                                      35.4
Type of Financing                  Credit
Total Bank Financing (US$m)        115.1
Proposed Terms:                    Standard Credit
Grace period (years):              10
Years to maturity:                 40
Commitment fee:                    Standard
Service charge                     Standard
Financig Plan
Source                             Local                     Foreign              Total
Government                          17.4                         0.0                17.4
Beneficiaries                       4.7                           0.0                4.7
IDA                                44.3                         70.8               115.1
Dutch Government                    0.6                           1.5                2.1
Total:                             67.0                         72.3               139.3
MtaiiWitbd dibub'rie nt (Bank 'FYJU.$M):-
fY  -  FYp01        FY02          FY03         FYQ4         FY.0         FY06
Annual      3.5          17.3         31.1         40.3          19.4         3.5
Cumulative      3.5          20.8         51.9         92.2         111.6        115.1
Project implementation period:      November 15, 2000 to June 30, 2005
Expected effectiveness date:        November 15, 2000
Expected closing date:              December 31, 2005



vi
Borrower:                    Government of Mali
Responsible agency:          Ministere du Developpement Rural
Mr. Yaya Diarra, Project Coordinator
Tel. (223) 22 91 74       Email: PNIR(datatech.toolnet.org
Fax. (223) 22 91 74
Implementing agencies:
Component:                   Large Scale Irrigation
Contact Person:              Mr. Nancoman Keita, President Directeur General
Address:                     Office du Niger, Segou, Mali
Tel: (223) 32 02 92       Email: ON@spider.toolnet.org
Fax: (223) 320 143
Component:                   Small Scale Irrigation and General Irrigation Sector Studies
Contact Person:              Mr. Paul Coulibaly, Directeur National de l'Amenagement et de l'Equipement
Rural
Address:                     Ministere du Developpement Rural
Tel. (223) 22 25 59       Email: DNAER@Malinet.ml
Fax: (223) 22 11 34
Component:                   Rural Water Supply & Sanitati on (RWSS)
Contact Person:              Mr. Harimakan Keita, Directeur National de l'Hydraulique
Address:                     Ministere du Developpement Rural
Tel: (223) 21 48 77        Email:
Fax: (223) 22 86 35
Component:                   Rural Transport Infrastructure
Contact Person:              Mr. Gaboune Keita, Directeur National des Travaux Publics
Address:                     Ministere de l'Equipement, de l'Amenagement du Territoire, de
I'Environnement, et de l'Urbanisme
Tel: (223) 22 48 77          Email: DNTP@CEFIB.com
(223) 22 40 96
Fax: (223) 23 60 92
Component                    Environment
Contact Person               Mr. Ousmane Toure, Directeur National de l'Assainissement et du Contr6le des
Pollutions et des Nuisances
Address:                     Ministere de l'Equipement, de l'Amenagement du Territoire, de
I'Environnement, et de l'Urbanisme
Tel: (223) 21 37 04
Fax: (223) 21 37 04



MALI
National Rural Infrastructure Project
A: PROGRAM PURPOSE AND PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
Al. Program purpose and program phasing
1.    The program's purpose is to reduce poverty and improve the livelihood of the rural population by
accelerating the provision, and enhancing the sustainability, of basic rural infrastructure in: irrigation, to
promote increased agricultural production, employment and income, rural transport infrastructure, to
improve access to input/output markets and social services, and clean rural water supply and sanitation
to promote better health and productivity of the rural population. Government's long-term vision for the
provision of this rural infrastructure calls for the establishment and/or strengthening of institutional
mechanisms for optimal use of scarce government resources through: (i) forging strategic partnerships
with local communities/governments and the private sector, (ii) fostering a greater sense of beneficiary
ownership through their increased involvement in, and responsibility for, infrastructure design,
development and management, (iii) ensuring greater capacity, both in the private and public sectors, for
infrastructure design, construction, operation and maintenance, and (iv) developing an efficient sector
monitoring system to ensure high quality and cost-effective service delivery. The program's components
are strategically selected to capitalize on the synergy among one another: increased environmentally and
socially sustainable agricultural production from expanded and better managed irrigated land will be
driven by market signals and increased profitability made possible by an improved and better managed
road network, and by the increased productivity of the agricultural labor force made possible by the better
health and time savings resulting from less distant clean water sources. The program also promotes
decentralization through beneficiary empowerment and by imparting a greater role for local governments
in the choice, design, financing, construction, and operation and maintenance of rural infrastructure.
2.    Achieving Government's objectives requires a sound policy and institutional framework with
regard to infrastructure financing and maintenance. This policy framework is clearly articulated in the
recently adopted Irrigation and Rural Water Supply Strategies, and, in the case of Rural Transportation,
in a draft strategy which, although not yet formally adopted, lays out the key policy orientations as a
result of a highly consultative, strategy formulation process.
3.     Achieving Government's long-term objectives will also require sustained technical and financial
support to the Government's long-term strategy and program, which will permit strengthening the
institutional framework first, before full-scale infrastructure development. The program will accordingly
be implemented in two 5-year phases which will be financially supported by IDA through an Adaptable
Program Loan (APL): Phase I (2001 - 2005) will place great emphasis on policy/institutional
strengthening and testing, and capacity building at all levels. Innovative mechanisms for financing
irrigation development will be tested and refined, as will be a demand-drivencommunity-based approach
to rural water supply and sanitation programs. Limited physical investments in these two sub-sectors
will be supported during this phase as a means of testing out and strengthening these policy/institutional
mechanisms. For transportation infrastructure, a sustainable financing mechanism for the maintenance
of the main road network will be put in place, and a national strategy for local transportation
infrastructure tested and adopted, both of which are aimed at improving the linkage between local
communities and major national/regional consumption centers through a fully integrated road network.



2
Limited investment in the rehabilitation of high priority regional roads will also be undertaken. At the
end of the first phase, the three operational strategies for irrigation, local transportation infrastructure, and
rural water supply will be reevaluated in light of actual experience. Phase H (2006 - 2010) will build on
the institutional development and capacity-building activities of the first phase for expanding the
investment activities nation-wide. In the case of the rural transportation component, only investments in
the rehabilitation and maintenance of the local/communal roads will be financially supported during this
second phase, support to the regional and national road network being undertaken under another program
for the major road network.
A2. Project Development Objective (see Annex 1)
4.     Phase I of the long-term program (the "project") will have two main objectives:
(i) an institutional objective - aimed at assisting the Malian government in establishing the new
institutional framework for the provision and management of rural infrastructure, which
includes: (a) the redefinition of the role of the central government, local governments, local
communities and the private sector; (b) the setting-up of effective mechanisms to plan,
finance and manage infrastructure; and (c) improving the capacities of stakeholders at all
levels in carrying out these responsibilities. As stated above, this will involve, among other
things: piloting irrigation development financing mechanisms based on enhanced investment
cost recovery from beneficiaries; testing and refining the demand-driven, decentralized
approach to delivering rural water supply and sanitation programs, and local transport
infrastructure; putting in place a second-generation road maintenance financing mechanism
(the Road Authority); and promoting the emergence of a vibrant local entrepreneur sector for
decentralized service/investment delivery to rural clients.
(ii) an investment objective - aimed at supporting priority/pilot investments in irrigation
development (9,300 ha), feeder road rehabilitation (472 km), water supply development
(1,300 water facilities), and sanitation programs.
A3. Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1)
5.     The project will have performance indicators specifically designed to measure progress toward its
central development objectives. These indicators will also be the basis for the second phase triggers
(Section B.4)
Performance Indicators for the Institutional Objective
. key elements of the new irrigation strategy successfully implemented, particularly the new cost
recovery measures, permitting increased beneficiary participation in irrigation infrastructure
investment;
* Road Authority fully established, with satisfactory funding and a routine maintenance ratio increasing
from 25% to 40% by NRIP-I's end;
* comprehensive rural transportation strategy adopted by project's end;
* at least 98% of all local water management committees for rural water supply facilities, small-scale
and large scale (the "comites paritaires" at Office du Niger) irrigation schemes are operational
(adequate tariff systematically collected, pump maintained, water delivery system maintained, pump-
site hygiene maintained);



3
* number of locally based private sector providers of goods and services trained under the project and
operational increases.
Performance Indicators for the Physical Investment (and the resulting output) Objective
* the target program for development/rehabilitation of irrigated perimeters has been implemented;
* total incremental crop production according to appraisal projections;
* the expected 472 km of high priority regional roads have been rehabilitated;
* the projected 1,300 new water supply facilities have been developed and some 800 rehabilitated.
Performance Indicators for Overall Project Impact
* percent change in irrigation beneficiary household income (compared to appraisal estimates);
* reduction in transportation charges attributable to better infrastructure;
* number of new rural inhabitants with access and effectively using potable water (compared to the
projected 300,000 people);
* number of sanitation infrastructure voluntarily constructed by villagers in areas where water supply
facilities were put in place under the project (as a result of the project's sanitation education program).
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT
s1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
(see Annex 1)
Document number: 17775 MLI        Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/26/98
6.    The overall objective of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy in Mali is the reduction of
poverty through improved macroeconomic management and broad-based employment creation and
income generation. The CAS is structured around two major axes: (i) sustainable human development,
and (ii) sustained economic growth. Because of its central importance for growth and poverty alleviation,
the CAS puts emphasis on supporting competitive, broad-based growth in the rural sector by: promoting
increased agricultural production through improvement of the technology generation and dissemination
system and supporting productive investments, including the rehabilitation/expansion of irrigated areas;
improving the linkages between productive areas and consumption centers; and strengthening the
capacity of the public and private sectors to plan and implement rural development activities, particularly
at the local level. This project fits well within the CAS's objectives by strengthening the institutional
framework and the public and private sectors' capacity to provide sustainable access to basic rural
infrastructure and by financing priority investments in irrigation, feeder roads and rural water supply and
sanitation.



4
B2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
2.1 Main Sector Issues
Irrigation
7.     Mali is characterized by extreme ecological diversity, with agroclimatic zones ranging from
Saharan (less than 150 mm of rainfall) in the North to Guinean or sub-tropical (1,200 mm of rainfall) in
the South. The most binding constraint to agricultural production is the limited amount and unreliability
of rainfall. Over the past 30 years, the country has experienced declining and erratic rainfall and a
southward movement of desertification, with severe droughts in the 1980s (particularly 1983-84 and
1987-88), which have left an estimated 1.4 million rural residents highly vulnerable to food shortages.
This has prompted the Malian government to place an even greater emphasis on the development of
irrigated agriculture for which the country has considerable potential. Indeed, based on the amount of
water resources available, potentially irrigable land is estimated at 2.2 million ha. However, very little of
this potential has so far been tapped. Although available figures are unreliable, the amount of land
already developed or under development is estimated at 243,000 ha (about 10% of total potential), of
which 147,000 ha are currently under use. Mali offers a range of irrigation systems depending upon local
hydrologic and topographic features:
- Large, gravitationalfull water control irrigation systems cover 30% of the total irrigated surface
(about 80,000 ha), the most representative case being Office du Niger, the country's major
irrigation development, where some 56,000 ha are currently under cultivation. There is great
potential for this kind of irrigation in the country, particularly at Office du Niger, where the
irrigated area could be more than doubled (at a cost of 2 - 3 million FCFA/ha) just on the basis of
the existing primary irrigation infrastructure.
* Large, limited water control or free flooding systems, using dikes to regulate fluctuations in the
floods from the Niger river, represent an estimated 60% (about 150,000 ha) of the total irrigated
surface, particularly in the Mopti and Segou regions. The investment cost varies from 200,000
CFAF to 500,000 CFAF per ha but, although plenty of land exists that can potentially be developed
for this type of irrigation, its development is in part limited by the high risk and low rate of return
on the investment because of the unpredictability of the level of annual floods on which it so
heavily depends.
* Small, full water control perimeters are small irrigated parcels of land managed by individuals or
the local community, and mainly used for rice and/or fruit and vegetable production.
Community/village irrigation perimeters, where water is pumped by a fixed or mobile motor pump,
are relatively new and represent about 5% of total irrigated land. Protection dikes in flood plains or
anti-sand barriers in Sahelian zones can add substantially to their development cost. For this, and
other reasons, development costs vary considerably, ranging between 0.7 and 2 million CFAF,
sometimes reaching 4 - 7 million CFAF. This relatively high cost tends to diminish their
profitability, but there is a need for their development in poverty stricken, semi-desertic regions in
the north of the country.
* Other relatively minor systems comprise of small/micro private irrigation perimeters, traditional
irrigation in bottom lands ("bas-fonds"), and oasis irrigation.



5
8.    Regardless of type, irrigation development in Mali faces a host of institutional, technical, and
economic challenges.
9.    High cost of irrigation development. This is largely due to, among other things, a limited number
of contractors (almost all foreign), an irregular volume of work, and technical difficulties in some regions
of Mali, e.g. the need for constructing protection dikes against floods and sand dunes in the upper Niger
valley.
10.   Lack of irrigation development financing. There is practically no long-term financing from local
financial institutions for private irrigation development, leaving government as virtually the sole investor
in the sector on any significant scale. Given government's limited resources (mainly from donors), the
pace of irrigation development has been very slow, at less than 3,000 ha per year (mainly rehabilitation of
old schemes). Thus, one of the key issues in this sub-sector is the need to design financing mechanisms
aimed at leveraging government's limited resources in order to accelerate the rhythm of irrigation
development (discussed further down).  This lack of long-term  financing has in the past been
compounded by limited land security, particularly on large irrigation schemes, a factor that could have
contributed to keeping away some would-be private investors.
11.   Poor irrigation infrastructure maintenance. Large Government-managed perimeters (e.g. Office
du Niger, Office Riz Mopti, Office Riz Segou) and small perimeters directly managed by beneficiaries
have in the past been beset by poor management resulting in inadequate maintenance and often leading to
the abandonment of the developed irrigation perimeters. Extensive reforms in the large schemes have
resulted in marked improvements in managerial performance: since Office du Niger's restructuring in
1994, water fee recovery has been maintained at a satisfactory 97%, and maintenance programming and
execution has markedly improved. However, farmer-managed smaller perimeters still suffer from limited
managerial skills, resulting in poor maintenance and low productivity.
12.   Limited access to markets and agricultural services. Poor road access (see paragraph 15 below),
limited access to input credit and other agricultural services (extension, input supply), have resulted in
low yields and poor revenue, and consequently very limited maintenance and amortization of the
irrigation infrastructure. This is particularly true for farmers operating small scale, scattered irrigation
perimeters.
13.   Limited sector planning and monitoring capacity. The line ministry's sector monitoring capacity
is weak due to lack of training, logistics, and poor remuneration. In addition, under the new
decentralization legal code, rural infrastructure will be under the auspices of the nascent local
governments whose fiscal, technical, and managerial capacity is still very weak.
14.   Finally, environmental concerns, including the prevalence of water-related diseases (especially
malaria, bilharzia and diarrhea) around major irrigation schemes, the potential for aquifer pollution from
chemical fertilizers, the potential for soil salinity and alkalinity, and significant pressure on local grazing
land and forest resources around some schemes, increasingly need attention, as is the need to reinforce
the government's capacity to monitor and manage potentially harmful environmental and social pressures
and to promote sustainable agricultural and environmental practices in an atmosphere of social good will.
Rural Transport Infrastructure
15.   Low network density. Mali's vast territory and a relatively small population notwithstanding, the
density of the all year round road network, estimated at 0.9 km - 1.5 km/100 km2 is low compared to 3.1



6
km/100 km2 in the sub-region, and 4.7 km/100 km2 for the whole of Africa. This, combined with the
road network's very poor state, has had a very negative effect on rural incomes as demonstrated by the
high transport charges incurred by rural communities (CFAF 100/ton/km on good feeder roads,
CFAF 500/ton/km on poor tracks, and only CFAF 30/ton/km on paved roads).
16.    Poor clarity of responsibility. Since GOM's resources for road investment and maintenance are
insufficient for the country's needs, other agencies, often with divergent interests, have stepped in,
especially for the rural road network. For instance, the maintenance of part of the feeder road network
was (and to some extent still is) the responsibility of rural development agencies operating in the area.
These agencies, which very often had a marketing monopoly for the major local produce (cotton, peanuts,
tobacco, rice) could impose a surcharge on the producer price offered, thus generating resources for road
maintenance. With the collapse of most of these agencies, and the subsequent commodity price and
marketing liberalization (except for cotton), the planning, financing, and maintenance of feeder roads, as
for most rural infrastructure, became an unbearable burden for those agencies. In the absence of fornal,
efficient institutional arrangements between them and the central government, the latter could not take
full responsibility for this added network.
17.    In addition, many projects have built transport infrastructure as a secondary means to achieving
their development objectives, but very often without any clear advance maintenance arrangements, just
the expectation that the central government would carry it out. Consequently, many major roads are
neither gazetted nor maintained, or their maintenance depends on institutions with no accountability to
any representative administrative authorities, which leads to their rapid deterioration with limited
possibility of any recourse to road users. The new decentralization code provides for the transfer of this
responsibility to the central and local governments. Yet the road network has still not been reclassified to
adequately reflect this policy direction, nor have the requisite sources of funds for their maintenance been
clearly identified.
18.    Low budgetary allocation and poor resource utilization. In general, inadequate provision is
made for routine maintenance of the main network in the central budget (less than 25% of routine
maintenance needs).1 This is compounded by poor utilization of these resources due to delays in their
release, and slow contracting processes, which frequently miss the between-rainy-season window, ideal
for carrying out road maintenance. Therefore, most roads are in a sorry state of disrepair and neglect.
Similarly, there is no significant road rehabilitation and new investment, particularly at levels beyond the
main network. Yet this bottom end of the network is critical economically by providing the link between
farms and primary markets and socially by providing access to social infrastructure such as schools or
primary health centers. Villages that are not on the main network (the vast majority) make do with ad
hoc structures designed by themselves or with some NGO support.
19.    Limited local private capacity. The tradition in Mali has so far entailed designing transport
infrastructure with relatively high standards, which has often led to the recourse to either force account
works or contracting out to major international contractors. Consequently, there is only a small number
of local entrepreneurs with adequate equipment and skills to carry out periodic or even routine road
maintenance (let alone major rehabilitation or new construction).
1 "Main network" has to be understood here as the 12,000km or so of roads, which form the backbone of the road network in Mali. It comprises
most (but not all) of the classified network and major unclassified roads. Those roads are of either national or regional importance because of
the traffic they support.



7
Rural water supply and sanitation
20.    Limited access to clean drinking water. Less than 40% of the rural population have access to
safe drinking water, with most rural communities typically relying on contaminated water available from
traditional sources (shallow wells, swamps and creeks), and often at long distances from dwelling places.
With domestic consumption of less than 10 liters per day per capita, needs are still considerable.
21.    Top-down programming of investments. Despite some recent improvements, rural water supply
in Mali continues to suffer from top-down investment programming, with inadequate levels of
community participation in project identification and investment choice. Assessment of beneficiary
commitment (e.g. willingness to contribute to capital costs) has not been systematic, and has been totally
absent in some cases, resulting in poor beneficiary ownership, and consequently poor maintenance
leading to long down time of water facilities and very often abandonment of the infrastructure.
22.    Inadequate maintenance.  This problem  has often been compounded by: (i) inadequate
beneficiary consultation as cited above; (ii) poor beneficiary organization for, and training in, water
facility management, including levying user fees adequate for equipment maintenance and replacement;
and (iii) the prevalence of ill-adapted equipment pushed by some donors that cannot be easily serviced
locally, leading to the abandonment of hundreds of boreholes for lack of spare parts on the local market.2
23.    Insufficient local private sector capacity. This is still wanting at all levels of project development
(for carrying out beneficiary sensitization and training programs, technical studies, and civil works),
resulting in a reliance on costly international firms for almost all aspects of rural water supply and
sanitation development.
24.    Inadequate sector monitoring and support.  There is need to decentralize DNH's sector
monitoring and sector support functions to levels closer to their rural clients. Local Government
structures have not been involved in sector activities and consequently have no capacity to support their
communities to sustain their water supply and sanitation facilities.
25.    Poor integration with hygiene. Investments in the sector have mainly been in the provision of
water supply infrastructure while rural sanitation and hygiene education have been ignored without any
intervention by most sector projects.
2.2 Government Strategy
Irrigation Infrastructure
26.    The Government, through a large participatory process, designed and adopted in December 1999
a national strategy aimed at faster, more sustainable development of the country's irrigation potential.
The main tenets of this strategy are summarized below.
27.    Increasing irrigation development financing. Up until recently, GOM financed the entire cost of
irrigation development on a turnkey basis, with beneficiaries only financially responsible for the entire, or
sometimes even only part, of the operations and maintenance (O&M) costs. Under the new strategy,
2 Mali suffers from a multiplicity of hand-pump technology imposed on the country by various external agencies that has often not been
supported by long-term supply of spares and maintenance services and consequently resulting in a large breakdown rate for handpumps (30 -
40%/o) and indeed most of the handpumps cannot be repaired because the pumps are now obsolete and no longer in production.



8
which aims at accelerating irrigation development in Mali by leveraging Government's limited
investment resources, the beneficiaries/private investors will be offered full ownership rights in
compensation for financing a sizeable share (from 20 to 40%) of investment costs in addition to full
O&M costs. In summary, the strategy's objectives will be achieved by:
(i) ensuring that all beneficiaries are fully responsible for 100% of O&M costs;
(ii) transferring, for all irrigation development types including for small-scale, community
development schemes, the responsibility for financing tertiary infrastructure and parcel-level
development (representing in general about 15-20% of total investment costs),3 to
beneficiaries. For households participating in small scale, community irrigation schemes where
land holding averages a mere quarter of a hectare or less and auto-consumption is a significant
share of total production, it is estimated that this is the maximum cost recovery level possible;
(iii) extending, for all other irrigation development types, the required contribution of beneficiaries
to the financing of secondary infrastructure (in particular through "Lease-Purchase"
arrangements in which the government will pre-finance the secondary infrastructure but will
fully recover its costs over several years), with GOM continuing to be financially responsible
for primary irrigation infrastructure development (dams, principal canals and drains);
(iv) establishing an institutional mechanism whereby funds generated in (iii) above are exclusively
used for further irrigation development, the so-called "Malian Solution" or "Solution Malienne"
(see Section C.I.A for details);
(v) providing increased incentives to private investors - which builds on the ongoing World
Bank-financed Private Irrigation Promotion Project, whereby GOM is already facilitating
individual investors, mainly those operating in peri-urban areas and frequently on small plots of
land, to acquire land titles, develop investment plans, and prepare loan applications for possible
financing by local banks. Under the new strategy, however, government is taking this initiative
further by attracting private investors to large schemes like ON. Contrary to the "lease-
purchase" initiative, private investors with adequate personal resources or access to (most
likely external) long-term credit would in this particular case directly finance the construction
of secondary and tertiary canals, and land leveling on their own.
28.    High cost of irrigation development.  GOM  strategy calls for promoting:  (i) the eventual
substitution of expensive foreign companies with cheaper local contractors through training, packaging
contracts in smaller lot sizes, and encouraging partnerships with foreign firms; and (ii) cheaper alternative
irrigation methods and equipment. GOM is in the process of creating an autonomous public works
execution agency (the Agence d'Ex&cution de Travaux d'Infrastructures et d'Equipements Ruraux or
AGETIER), following the model of its successful urban counterpart, AGETIPE Mali. AGETIPE's
experience has shown that the use of an executing agency with streamlined administrative and payment
procedures, and a strong training program in participatory techniques and procurement methods, can
work as an effective catalyst for the emergence and strengthening of small-scale contractors (see Annex 2
for details about AGETIER).
3 Farmers have the option of doing the work physically or making a cash payment. In the context of the recently closed Office du Niger project,
a test was carried out which demonstrated that farmers could physically construct tertiary canals, a move that would save govemment some
15-20% of the irrigation development cost, thus releasing resources for redeployment in further irrigation development.



9
29.    Poor irrigation infrastructure maintenance.  GOM  strategy calls for: (i) limiting irrigation
perimeters to sizes manageable by the local communities (maximum 30 ha); (ii) ensuring greater
ownership through a demand-driven approach and increased beneficiary participation in infrastructure
planning, financing, and management; (iii) beneficiary training programs in maintenance programming
and execution, input purchase and output marketing; (iv) updating, and ensuring the application of,
technical norms; (v) promoting locally adapted equipment; and (vi) greater involvement of local
institutions (NGOs, private sector, etc.) in providing support services to irrigators.
30.    Limited access to agricultural services and inadequate sector planning and monitoring capacity.
GOM intends to promote local savings and credit associations for providing farm input credit (IDA
support for this initiative to be provided through the Financial Sector Support Operation under
preparation, FY0O)4. GOM is also preparing a program (PASAOP) for rationalizing and decentralizing
MDR core services, reinforcing capacity through training and basic equipment, improving the efficiency
and relevance of the national extension and research systems, and for strengthening and empowering
producer organizations in the design and execution of agricultural support services. The weak planning
and supervisory capacity of the recently created local governments will be addressed through a training
program for elected officials, accompanied by an investment program (Fonds d 'Investissement Local) for
reinforcing the acquired skills and building confidence in the decentralization and community
empowerment program with major support from donors, most notably the French Cooperation and
European Union.
Rural Transport Infrastructure
31.    Responsibility clarification. GOM has started the process of designing a new  national rural
transport strategy aimed at clarifying responsibilities and procedures regarding road construction and
maintenance at each level, from the main network (national/primary and feeder roads) to local roads, and
is preparing a major road reclassification study that will facilitate the assigning of road responsibility to
the different levels of government.5 Both the reclassification study and the strategy should settle once
and for all the question of road construction and maintenance by third parties, with the funding principle
of there not being any "owner" of transport infrastructure besides the central and local governments. All
existing and future transport infrastructure would, therefore, fall in the portfolio of one specific
government. Contracts would be signed to concede the whole or part of the maintenance from those
governments to third parties (such as rural development agencies as need be).
32.    It is expected that in the short run, local governments will have limited human and financial
capacity to effectively carry out their new obligations. Therefore, the strategy will call for greater
technical support to these local governments and communities by the Regional Directorates of Public
Works in organizing and implementing road maintenance. Local communities will have to mobilize their
own resources both for construction and maintenance of small, local rural roads (e.g. through user
charges or physical community participation). They will also benefit from financial support from the
central government through matching grants under stringent conditions. As stated in paragraph 30 above,
GOM is working out programs together with its development partners to strengthen local governments'
planning, and resource mobilization capacity.
4 Some of these associations are beginning to leverage their limited resources through refinancing by commercial banks, as is increasingly the
case at ON.
5 Initial support to GOM for elaborating the strategy was provided by the Rural Travel and Transport Program which is part of the Sub-Saharan
Transport Policy Program (SSATP)



10
33.   Increased and better utilization of resources for routine road maintenance. An autonomously
managed Road Authority will be set up to mobilize and manage the utilization of resources for routine
maintenance of the main network (both primary and feeder roads) with a formula to ensure that feeder
roads get a fair share of the fund's resources. A study is planned for assessing annual maintenance needs
for the main road network, based upon which the corresponding financial resources will be determined.
This will facilitate the determination of the level of the fuel surcharge and a road user fee to levy. The
road maintenance fund will set priorities within a partnership framework between the road maintenance
fund, the regional road directorates and the communities. At the local level, it is expected that the strategy
will transfer the bulk of the routine and periodic maintenance to local governments and communities.
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
34.   Investment programming and infrastructure maintenance. Drawing on past experience, GOM's
updated strategy (adopted in March 2000) calls for increased access to, and sustained use of, clean rural
water supply facilities, maximizing their impact by combining their use with sanitation programs, and
ensuring that future sector investments are demand driven. The basic tenets underpinning the strategy
are: (a) decentralization of the decision-making process at all stages of the rural water supply and
sanitation (RWSS) project cycle regarding project identification and investment choice implying that the
DNH or the RWSS projects will no longer decide in advance which communities receive water or
sanitation facilities, but rather, communities in need of such facilities would initiate a request to their
local government representative in a bottom-up approach; (b) demonstrated beneficiary commitment to
such facilities by their willingness to contribute toward capital cost; (c) greater beneficiary training in
RWSS management, operation and maintenance (including preventive maintenance); (d) exclusive use of
technology/equipment most adapted to local conditions; and (e) reduction in construction and
maintenance costs.
35.   Private sector capacity building. Under the new strategy, the State will play a facilitating role in
the sector's development, through phased withdrawal from direct provision of goods and services and
ensuring a systematic recourse to the private sector for studying, constructing, maintaining and operating
rural facilities, with special emphasis on promoting the local private sector's capacity to deliver these
services.
36.   Decentralized support and sector monitoring. Decentralized local government structures shall be
responsible for implementing and supporting sustained operation of RWSS programs for their
constituencies through a systematic capacity building program to enable them carry out such activities.
Environmental Protection
37.   The Government of Mali deems the protection ofthe environment and the conservation of natural
resources to be fundamental priorities, and the basis for sustainable development. Core principles in its
environmental policy include equity, participation, the internalization of environmental costs, the
"polluter pays" principal, and the involvement and responsibility of all actors. GOM has recently adopted
a National Environmental Action Plan that calls for, among other things, water and soil quality
monitoring and controlling of water-associated diseases, including provision of clean drinking water.
This was followed up by creating national and regional environmental directorates which will be
responsible for coordinating the implementation of GOM's environmental activities protection programs.



11
B3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
3.1 Sector issues to be addressed
38.    Regarding increased sustainable irrigated agriculturalproduction, NRIP-I will:
* pilot the new capital cost recovery mechanisms aimed at accelerated irrigation development;
* pilot the promotion of private irrigation investments at large scale schemes like ON;
* support improved irrigation infrastructure management through strengthening associations of
irrigators and beneficiary training;
* promote irrigation development cost reduction by: (i) strengthening local private sectorlNGO's
capacity for irrigation development through AGETIER, (ii) carrying out tests on cheaper irrigation
equipment, and (iii) applying technical norms on small scale irrigation schemes.
39.    Regarding increased attention to the environmental and social impacts of irrigation and
agricultural intensification in the ON zone, NRIP-I will:
* strengthen the institutional framework and build capacity to enhance environmental and social
impact analysis, mitigation design, and implementation;
* assess, and where appropriate strengthen, the legal/regulatory framework, and intervene to ensure
minimum river flows, watershed management, grazing rights, health protection, and access to
project irrigation benefits;
* support studies and/or implement the lessons of prior studies on, among other subjects: drainage
improvement, soil management, natural habitat preservation, gender, livestock management,
groundwater, and poverty targeting; and
* support investments in health, aquatic ecosystem protection, and afforestation.
40.    Regarding increased road access to markets and social services, NRIP-I will:
* support the rehabilitation of selected priority feeder roads6;
- support the clarification of responsibilities by completing a comprehensive national rural transport
strategy (including different transport means and services, as well as inland water transport) in
accordance with the reclassificification studies, which will take into account both the road
network's maintenance needs and the financial/technical capacity of the various jurisdictions
responsible for managing and maintaining them;
* support the creation of a road authority: completion of the requisite legal texts and procedures,
setting up its management structures, etc.; and
* support the development of small local contractors' capacity through AGETIER (a direct
consequence of the transfer of responsibility toward local governments and communities will be a
major increase in small-scale infrastructure works).
41.    Regarding increased access to potable water supply and better sanitation, NRIP-I will:
* support the on-going decentralization process and demonstrate the demand-driven approach
enshrined in the new sector strategy;
* support the creation and training of water users' associations to ensure long-term sustainability;
* rationalize the choice of appropriate technology for hand-operated pumps and other RWSS
facilities by limiting the number of pump types to a few that are cost effective, well adapted to the
6 NRIP-II will focus exclusively on communal or community roads



12
country and can be supported by a sustainable spare part supply and hand pump maintenance
system through strengthening the capacity of local spare parts dealers and repair service (black
smith) networks;
* integrate hygiene education and improved sanitation with the provision of improved water supply
infrastructure so as to optimize the project's health benefits; and
* support capacity building of all major players in the sector (concerned administrative departments,
private sector, NGOs, communes, water user associations) to enable them assume their new
responsibilities in accordance with the revamped RWSS strategy.
3.2 Strategic Choices
42.    Choice of project area for irrigation activities. The program is targeting two types of irrigation
for development: large-scale perimeters at ON and small-scale, community-driven schemes in the
Northern semi-arid regions of the country. The ON zone presents an enormous potential for economic
development of irrigated agriculture and the demand for expanding the irrigated area, in particular from
small-scale farmers, is high. It is well linked to main markets by regional and main roads; the existing
primary irrigation infrastructure (dam, major primary canals, etc.) permit to develop an additional
150,000 ha of perimeters through investments in complementary secondary and tertiary infrastructure
resulting in relatively low unit development costs; and ON's improved managerial performance since its
1994 restructuring ensures satisfactory implementation and management of additional perimeters.7 It is
therefore ideal for piloting the new irrigation policy based on increased beneficiaries' contribution to
development costs. NRIP-I will also finance the rehabilitation/development of small scale, demand-
driven community irrigation perimeters in the highly vulnerable regions of Mopti, Gao, and Timbuktu,
and will test the feasibility of utilizing groundwater for irrigation development at Kidal, as an effective
weapon against poverty and social inequality.
43.   Initial emphasis on the Road Authority's establishment over resource mobilization. The primary
objective is to first build the authority's technical and managerial capacity to plan and effectively
administer road maintenance programs before shifting the focus toward accelerated resource inflows and
the corresponding heavy work program.
44.    Elaboration of a comprehensive national rural transport strategy.  Although the project's
intervention will primarily focus on the "infrastructure" part of rural transportation, it will nevertheless
support the elaboration of a comprehensive national rural transport strategy encompassing all aspects of
rural transport in Mali, including different transport "means" and transport "services", and inland water
transportation.
45.    Secondary versus community roads.  This program's Phase I takes a holistic approach to
transportation by investing in, and promoting maintenance mechanisms for, the major/secondary road
network, while supporting the elaboration of a strategy for local transportation (whose investments will
be supported in Phase II), in order to ensure a viable and fully integrated national road network right from
the village to the major market centers. As part of the elaboration of the national rural transport strategy,
a few pilot activities will be carried out in order to test various institutional arrangements.
46.    Trade off between numbers and process. The project will favor user decisions on choice of
facilities backed by cash contributions to enhance ownership and effective operation and maintenance
arrangements that will ensure sustained use of services (a rather slow process of consultation and
7 See project files for details on ON's restructuring



13
training) over a rapid increase in nominal coverage ratios. The project also intends to have local
governments select and appraise community subprojects instead of project staff and the National Water
Directorate so as to empower local governments to offer the needed backstopping and other long-term
support requirements for sustaining community water supply and sanitation facilities.
47.    Combining water supply with sanitation. The project will combine financing rural water supply
investments and sanitation/hygiene education programs in order to maximize health benefits.
48.    Public to private transfer of responsibilities. Since the implementation of the sector strategy will
entail a considerable shift of responsibilities for the supply of goods and services from the public to the
private sector, NRIP-I will support capacity building to prepare the two players for their new
responsibilities through training, technical assistance, and studies.
49.   Standardization of water pumps. NRIP-I will assist in standardizing water pumps types for
recommending to communities in all future RWSS projects throughout Mali.
50.    Choice of project area for water and sanitation activities. The project will finance RWSS in the
regions of Kayes, Sikasso, Koulikoro and Segou, which are considered priority regions because of their
pressing clean water needs and a high poverty incidence (ranging from 50-90%). These regions also
offer the right conditions for testing and refining new implementation procedures prepared in line with
the new sector strategy. Criteria will be developed to extend to four more regions in the second phase.
B4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans
51.    GOM's strategic framework aims at accelerating the provision and ensuring the sustainability of
rural infrastructure by leveraging its limited resources through strategic partnerships with beneficiaries
and the private sector, and ensuring the sustainability of these investments through greater beneficiary
ownership and capacity building. The first 5-year phase of this 10 year program (focussing on irrigation,
rural transportation infrastructure, and rural water supply and sanitation) will pilot these policy
orientations and adapt them to the evolving context of decentralization and increased transfer of
responsibility to the private sector and user organizations, thus laying a foundation for a broad investment
program to be implemented during Phase II. At the end of the first phase, the impact of the policy and
institutional reforms will be reviewed to assess the opportunity of initiating Phase II's investment
program. The description of Phase I and Phase II activities, and the performance triggers to initiate Phase
II are presented below.
Phase IActivities:
* piloting a cost recovery based irrigation funding mechanism;
* piloting the promotion of private investors in large scale irrigation schemes;
* setting up an autonomous rural public works executing agency;
* setting up an autonomous road maintenance agency;
* elaborating a comprehensive rural transport strategy including pilot projects to test a few options
for institutional arrangements;



14
*  testing and refining demand-responsive decentralized rural water supply and sanitation and small
scale irrigation implementation arrangements in selected regions8;
*  building capacity of communes, the private sector, and NGOs to support project implementation
and the subsequent supply of spares for, and the repairing of, rural infrastructure (rural water
supply hand-pumps, irrigation equipment, etc..) in selected regions; and
*  supporting physical investments in irrigation, secondary roads, rural water supply and sanitation to
accompany these policy and institutional measures
Phase IHActivities:
*  consolidating the policy framework around lessons learned from  Phase I, and ensuring total
harmony   with   decentralization   (accomplish   full   decentralized   implementation   of
commune/community level investments, including contracting of goods and services)9;
*  setting  up  a self-financing/autonomous, privately  managed, irrigation  development agency
(depending upon the results from NRIP-I's pilot activities attesting to its feasibility);
*  implementing the then ready rural transportation strategy (with the physical investment activities
re-oriented to local/commune level transport infrastructure only); and
*  expanding the spatial coverage of investment activities (additional regions or communes within the
old regions) for a nationwide coverage
52.     The performance triggers for moving to Phase II will be as follows:
For the Irrigation Component:
*  successful implementation of the key elements of the new irrigation strategy, in particular that a
fully functional development financing mechanism be in place -- and corresponding provisions be
included in the new Contrat-Plan between Office du Niger, Farmers, and GOM, to be signed
before end-December 2001 -- permitting increased participation by/cost recovery from
beneficiaries for investment in irrigation infrastructure, with a recovery rate of amounts due by
beneficiaries of not less than 90%;
*  satisfactory completion of the program for developing/rehabilitating 9,300 ha of land for irrigated
agriculture;
*  clear evidence of a strong demand for, and the existence of satisfactory capacity to carry out,
private investments, and full and impartial application by ON of the terms and conditions governing
private sector investments as a condition for continued promotion of private sector investments on
large schemes;
* completion of a study on improving the drainage system at ON; and
* completion of a study on ways and means of reducing irrigation investment costs.
For the Rural Transport Infrastructure Component:
* completion and adoption by GOM of a comprehensive national rural transport strategy;
8 For rural water supply and sanitation: Segou, Sikasso, Koulikoro, and Kayes regions; For irrigation: Segou, Mopti, Tombouctou, Gao, and
Kidal; For secondary roads: Segou, and Mopti regions. For the pilot on local transportation institutional arrangements: anywhere in the
country; specific locations to be determined.
9 Irrigation investments in the Office du Niger zone will remain national in scope, although communes will have a role in the management of the
non irrigated areas, e.g. the management of common pasture land, the management and use of other natural resources.



15
* completion of the road reclassification study and adoption by GOM of the new reclassification by
December 2001; and
* setting up and full and satisfactory functioning of the Road Authority, the process of which is
expected to follow the subsequent verifiable steps:
- the Road Authority is fully operational by December 2001;
- completion of a study on the road maintenance needs for the entire national road network as a
basis for setting levies for the Road Authority, and
- satisfactory performance of the Road Authority, covering 40% of routine road maintenance
financial needs by December 2005.
For the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Component:
* successful implementation of the updated strategy, namely:
- full application of the demand approach to sector investments in all new programs;
- standardization of human operated pumps around those that are most suitable; and
- deconcentration of DNH monitoring and support functions.
For Environmental and Social Protection:
= respecting the World Bank's environmental and social safeguard policies, and the Malian
Government's law on the subject.
C: PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
Cl. Project Components
(see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
IndUve  of   B''anik-       %of
Comnponent                         Sector           Cosft            Financing    Bank-
-US$M)   TOtal    (US$M)   financing
1. Irrigation                      Iffigation &        66.6   47.8         53.0       79.6
Drainage
II. Rural Transport Infrastructure  Roads              26.0    18.7        23.3       89.5
III. Rural water supply and sanitation  Rural Water Supply  25.5    18.3   21.4       84.1
& Sanitation
IV. Environment                    Environment          6.9     5.0         5.7       82.3
V. AGETIER                         Institutional        1.1    0.8          0.7       63.1
Development
VI. Implementation unit operating costs  Other Non-sector  11.9    8.5      9.7       81.4
Specific
VII. PPF Refinancing                                    1.3     1.0         1.3      100.0
Total Project Costs                                   139.3   100.0       115.1       82.6
Total Financing Required                              139.3   100.0       115.1       82.6



16
I. Irrigation (US$ 66.6 million)
A) Large Scale Irrigation Development at Office du Niger (US$ 56.8 million)10
53.    New Irrigation Financing Mechanism Pilot (US$5. 1). One of the central long term objectives of
the program is to have an autonomous, self-financing,privately managed, irrigation development agency
as described in paragraph 27 above, responsible for irrigated land development and collection of
prescribed contributions from beneficiaries for further use in irrigation development (in other words, for
pre-financing the reimbursable portion of the investment, i.e. secondary/tertiary infrastructure, but not to
be used for funding primary infrastructure which will continue to be funded through Government
budget). Preliminary assessments attest to the feasibility of such an Agency. NRIP-I will finance a pilot
to refine the concept in a real setting before its nationwide application through the following activities.
(i) Institutional set-up (US$ 0.3 million). Studies and workshops will be carried out to define the
detailed contours of such an agency, including its capital and managerial structure, its contractual
arrangements with beneficiaries, and procedures for the recovery and use of beneficiaries'
repayments. Terms of Reference acceptable to IDA for refining these modalities were finalized
during negotiations. This study will be carried before September 30, 2000.
(ii) Development of a test irrigation perimeter - "Koumouna I" (US$ 4.8 million). The project will
finance the construction of all primary and secondary infrastructure and major land leveling
corresponding to 390 ha on which these arrangements will be tested. It will be completed in the
third year of the project, and the very first of a series of repayment installments will be made during
the fourth year. Managing such a limited test does not warrant the creation of a full fledged agency
at this time. Consequently, only a small unit will be set up within ON which will manage this test
in accordance with results from the study referred to in Part (i) above, and whose operating costs
will be supported by the project. A full fledged agency will only be considered for NRIP-II if this
approach is judged promising at the end of NRIP-I.
54.    Private Sector Irrigation Development Pilot - "Koumouna-II" (US$ 4.0 million). In this case,
IDA will only finance the construction of the primary infrastructure sufficient for 444 ha, with all
secondary and tertiary infrastructure, and land leveling to be completed by private investors themselves
(at a cost of US$ 2.1 million). Criteria for applicant selection, as well as the terms and conditions of
settlement on, and use of, this land were agreed upon during negotiations, and are reflected in the
project's implementation manual. The project will also finance the full development of an additional280
ha for the local population as compensation for loss of the traditional use of the land (a total of 2,610 ha
at full project development) to be developed under this and the "lease-purchase" mechanisms. These
compensatory arrangements have already been agreed upon between Government and local inhabitants.
55.    Other irrigation development activities at ON (43.7 million). In addition to the above pilot, the
project will finance the following activities at ON:
(i) Sokolo Perimeter Rehabilitation (US$ 29.6 million). This 30 year old irrigation perimeter of
5,850 ha is severely degraded, particularly the drainage system, and in dire need of major
rehabilitation. The project will finance the rehabilitation of all primary and secondary
infrastructure and major land leveling, with beneficiaries responsible for tertiaries. In
addition, farmers will pay an amount to be determined in the study referred to in paragraph
10 Amounts in parentheses are for all financiers added together.



17
53 above, upon which they will obtain full land rights. These arrangements will be
integrated in the 2002-2004 Contrat-Plan.
(ii) M'Bewani Perimeter Completion (US$ 6.8 million). The first part of this perimeter (1,700
ha) was developed under previous IDA and Dutch financing. IDA will now finance the
completion of the distributor and the main drain (US$ 3.4 million) and the Dutch
cooperation will provide parallel financing for completing the secondary canals and major
land leveling (US$ 2.1 million) for the remaining 1,300 ha. Payments beyond the tertiary
canals will be determined as discussed in Part (i) above.
(iii) Canal Costes-Ongoiba Expansion (US$ 7.3 million). IDA will finance the enlargement and
deepening of the Costes-Ongoiba canal (19 km) which serves the existing sugar plantations
at Dougabougou and Siribala, the M'Bewani irrigation perimeter and its planned extensions,
as well as the Koumouna perimeter, for a total area of about 20,000 ha.
56.    ON  Capacity Building  (US$  0.7 million).   The project will: (i) strengthen  ON's
monitoring/evaluation (including procurement and environmental monitoring), as well as financial
management systems; (ii) train ON staff in irrigation management; (iii) train joint ON-farmer irrigation
infrastructure management committees ("comites paritaires"), and (iv) train irrigation farmers'
associations in tertiary infrastructure maintenance management and implementation.
57.   Studies (US$ 1.8 million). NRIP-I will finance: (i) preliminary and detailed engineering studies
for about 7,000 ha to be developed in NRIP-II (see Annex 2 for details); (ii) studies on primary
infrastructure maintenance needs; and (iii) a study on rice marketing strategies.
58.   Applied Research (US$ 1.5 million). The project will finance on-farm tests on the adaptability
and profitability of simple hand held motorized equipment with a potential for enhancing labor
productivity. It will also put together a technical and economic reference guide (for use by private
investors) covering cultural practices, alternative irrigation methods, and adaptable farm equipment.
B) Small Scale Irrigation (US$ 9.8 million)
59.   Capacity Building (US$ 2.7 million). This will include: (i) seminars and short-term training
courses for DNAER staff, grassroots intermediaries (NGOs) and local consulting firms in the
participatory conception and design of small scale irrigation projects; (ii) intensive technical support to
beneficiaries (through social intermediaries) in irrigation infrastructure management and improved
technologies to increase agricultural productivity and output marketing; (iii) short-term overseas courses
and study tours to neighboring countries for some DNAER staff responsible for irrigation development
regarding different irrigation techniques and equipment; (iv) procurement training; and (v) providing
logistical and computer equipment for the unit within DNAER that will coordinate and monitor this sub-
component's execution.
60.   Land Development (US$ 5.0 million). The project will finance technical studies, civil works, and
pumping equipment for an estimated area of 500 ha in Mopti, 250 ha in Gao, and 250 ha in Timbuktu.
Farmers will provide manual labor for carrying simple earthworks on secondary and tertiary canals and
drains (see Section C4 and Annex 2 for details).



18
61.    Underground Water Resource Utilization Pilot at Kidal (US$ 1.2 million) The project will also
finance pilot activities (technical studies, civil works, and pumping equipment) to test the feasibility of
irrigated agriculture using underground water sources in the region of Kidal.
62.   Agricultural Intensification (US$ 0.5 million). The project will also finance one-time grants to
the associations of irrigators established for each community perimeter for establishing a revolving fund
used for lending to members for input purchase. The revolving funds will be managed by the
associations themselves with support from specialized NGOs. Implementations arrangements were
agreed upon during negotiations and are included in the project's implementation manual (see Annex 2
for details).
63.   Studies (US$ 0.4 million). The project will finance a study on reducing the establishment costs of
small perimeters through the manufacturing of certain equipment locally (modules, slice gates) and
importing less costly equipment (pumps, irrigation materials).
HI. Rural Transport Infrastructure (US$ 26.0 million)
64.   Capacity Building (US$ 3.3 million). NRIP-I will support:
(i) the setting up of a Road Authority for routine road maintenance - (US$ 0.3 million). Most legal
tests for creating the fund have been drafted, and await adoption by the National Assembly. The
project will finance the authority's start-up costs (furniture and equipment, a financial
management system, and a monitoring and evaluation system) and training of key personnel,
particularly in financial management.
(ii) the completion of the national rural transport strategy (US$ 3.0 million) through the use of an
international consultant that will support GOM in reviewing and completing the work already
done under the Rural Travel and Transport Program. In order to incorporate field experience in
the strategy, pilot activities will be conducted to test a few institutional arrangement options for
the rehabilitation of about 200 km, with special emphasis on the northern part of Mali where
transport infrastructure needs are substantial.
65.   Feeder Road Rehabilitation (US$ 22.7 million). NRIP-I will also support the rehabilitation of
472.3 km from government's urgent feeder road program comprising the Banamba-Kiban-Toubakoro-
Molodo-Niono road (202.3 km out of its total length of 254 km); the Nara-Guire-Sokolo-Niono road (210
km); and the Djenne-Mougna-Say road (60 km).
II. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (US$ 25.5 million)
66.   Capacity Building (US$ 3.5 million). The capacity building component, aimed at strengthening
the public and private sectors, will comprise training and technical assistance. Capacity for all
administrative agencies involved in this component will be strengthened to enable them to better promote
and facilitate the sector's development, monitor sector program performance and impacts, and act as
facilitators between private sector operators and the communes. The capacity of the local private sector
and NGOs will be strengthened through appropriate training to create the enabling environment as well as
incentives for the provision of goods and services to communities. The training program will be demand-
driven and shall consist of modular units targeted to the various public sector players (concerned
agencies, regional committees, and local government structures) and to the private sector organizations
and firms (NGOs, local consultants, contractors, masons, well-diggers, pump mechanics). Details of



19
capacity building activities are contained in the Project Implementation Manual. Thetrainingprogram
will be coordinated by the DNH but implemented by specialized private sector institutions familiar with
participatory techniques or assistance to small enterprises. Technical assistance, also provided through a
firm to ensure work quality, would focus on technical aspects of implementation and community
development: (a) preparing the technical specifications of the bidding documents, including design
criteria; (b) preparing guidelines for contract management; (c) monitoring the performance of local
contractors; (d) providing assistance to local consultants and NGOs; (e) designing the information
campaign; (f) identifying private actors and NGOs and setting up cooperation arrangements between
them and the public actors; and (g) monitoring the implementation of the mobilization process by NGOs
and organizing periodic evaluations.
67.   Rural Water Supply Development (US$ 20.5 million). Specifically, the project will finance
technical studies and civil works for up to 1,300 water points. The level of service and type of technology
will be decided by communities from options that include boreholes fitted with a human-operated pump,
rehabilitation and replacement of existing human-operated pumps that are now obsolete, and
rehabilitation of traditional wells and improved sanitation facilities for schools and health centers.
Provision has been made for up to 25 larger communities that might opt for boreholes equipped with
solar powered pumps, a tank and a limited pipe distribution network (included in the 1,300 water points).
The choice of options will take into account environmental, technical and financial feasibility that is
detailed in the Project Implementation Manual.
68.   Sanitation and Hygiene Education (US$ 1.5 million). This sub-component seeks to contribute to
improvements in the health of the rural population and in overall sanitation through better management
and delivery of sanitation services to be achieved by way of extensive marketing and promotion
campaigns. Specifically, this project will (a) train masons and small enterprises for constructing and
promoting on-site sanitation systems for households, communities, schools and health centers; (b)
improve the sanitation conditions and hygiene practices in selected schools and health centers with a view
to having a demonstration effect within the surrounding communities; and (c) improve the sanitation and
hygiene practices of rural households and communities through integration of appropriate messages and
activities in the community mobilization process for the water supply program.
IV. Environment and Social Protection Measures (US$ 6.9 million)
69.   The project will finance a number of institutional and regulatory measures, studies, technical
assistance and physical investments designed to (i) contribute to the sustained use of the land and water
resources of Mali, (ii) provide support to vulnerable social groups, (iii) facilitate the voluntary relocation
of villagers near the irrigated zones, and (iv) enhance women's participation in economic development
and local self-management. Many of these measures, which are important for full socio-environmental
management of the project, have been integrated in the specific project components concemed.
70.   Institutional measures (US$ 0.8 million).  The project will finance: (i) a small unit for
environmental and social monitoring within the ON; (ii) an overall institutional assessment of the
government departments in charge of the environment, which will then be strengthened to make them
more effective in supervising, managing, and monitoring NRIP's Socio-Environment Program; and (iii)
the periodic consultation of renowned international and national experts on environmental and social
issues regarding the implementation of NRIP's socio-environmental component.
71.   Regulatory measures (US$ 1.4 million). The project will review and improve as appropriate
measures required for effective environmental and social management, including: (a) agreement between



20
the project and the Ministry of Public Health on health measures, (b) introducing simplified screening
criteria and methods for environmental and social issues in the National Rural Transport Strategy, and (c)
assessment of the legal implications of Mali's international commitments in regional watershed
management conventions and international environmental conventions (RAMSAR), and the institutional
arrangements by which those commitments can be managed. Regarding small-scale irrigation
development, rural road rehabilitation, and rural water supply, measures will include updating
environmental clauses in contracts with irrigation contractors, road contractors, and drilling contractors,
including clauses on sexually transmitted diseases and AIDS awareness training for their employees.
72.    Studies and analyses (US$ 2.5 million). These will include, for the ON zone: (a) a drainage
system study; (b) a baseline and then an ongoing assessment of soil salinization; (c) an analysis and
action plan for woodland depletion/production; (d) a natural habitat survey of Delta Mort critical areas
(fala) and unusual habitats; (e) a rapid hydrological analysis of minimum flows at Markala and water
requirements downstream to ensure minimum flow to the Niger Inland Delta and downstream
communities, ecosystems and fisheries; (f) a groundwater resource study, with recommendations for
wells and borehole sites, monitoring and groundwater management; (g) a full plan for possible voluntary
relocation further away from water masses; (h) the formulation of an action research/policy on gender;
and (i) action plan on how to integrate livestock in the Office du Niger area and how to manage the
pastures, livestock water resources, fallows and residues in the Office du Niger area in an
environmentally and socially sustainable manner in order to minimize land and water use conflicts and
reduce impacts on vulnerable groups.
73.    Studies and analyses required for the non-ON project components focus on: (a) carrying out
perimeter-specific Environmental Assessments (EAs) and Social Assessments (SAs), (b) carrying out
road-section-specific EAs and SA(s), (c) social analyses on water point (borehole) selection to ensure
equitable distribution, and (d) social analyses of vulnerable groups (women in particular), to determine
how these groups can best benefit from improved rural infrastructure, and to prepare an action plan to
facilitate women's right to land in small-scale irrigation schemes.
74.    Environmental and social investments (US$ 0.8 million). Environmental and social investments
in irrigation, road rehabilitation and/or rural water supply include (a) health related investments in
collaboration with the Ministry of Public Health, (b) support of IPM activity in collaboration with FAO,
and (c) a demand driven tree planting program to ensure the sustainable production of fuelwood,
construction timber, and other forest products.
75.    Capacity building (US$ 1.4 million). The project will finance capacity building activities in
environmental and social issues for all stakeholders: Governmental departments, ON and AGETIER staff,
NGOs, local authorities, farmer leaders.
V. AGETIER (US$ 1.1 million)
76.    NRIP-I will support the setting up of AGETIER by providing (i) start up capital for equipment,
(ii) training in procurement, environment, and financial management, and (iii) initial operating expenses
on a declining basis (the totality of its operating budget during the first year, salaries and travel expenses
in the second year, salaries only during the third and fourth year, and nothing thereafter) as the agency is
expected to gradually be self-financed from fees generated from its services.



21
VI. Program Coordination and Program Monitoring (US$ 11.9 million)
77.   Program Coordination (US$ 9.2 million). The project will finance the salaries of the project
coordinator, his deputy, the accountant, and the support staff of the National Project Coordination Unit,
as well as the unit's equipment (vehicles, computers, and furniture), staff training, and operating costs.
The project will also finance the equipment (office furniture, vehicles, computing equipment, etc..) and
the salaries for the coordinator and the rest of the personnel for the Regional Project Coordination Units
in the regions where the project will start, including ON's project implementation costs, as described in
Section C4. The financing is broken down as follows: national office of the PCU, US$ 2.9 million;
regional offices of the PCU, US$ 1.8 million; ON, US$ 0.6 million; DNTP, US$ 0.1 million; DNAER,
US$ 0.5 million; DNH/DRH, US$ 1.6 million; and DNACPN, US$ 1.7 million.
78.   Program Monitoring (US$ 2.7 million). The project will finance the set-up of an information
management system (including procurement and environmental monitoring), and periodic surveys -- the
first one for establishing a baseline -- and others surveys as described in the Project Implementation
Manual.
C2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
79.   The first Phase of the program (NRIP-I) will address the major institutional and policy reforms
included in the Government strategy for the development of the irrigation, rural road and rural water
supply and sanitation sub-sectors (see section B.3 above). With the measures already taken by the
Government (e.g. commodity market and price liberalization, tax reforms, the CFAF devaluation, and
ON's restructuring, which together have made locally produced agricultural commodities, including rice,
the principal irrigated crop in Mali, more competitive and much more profitable than in the past), the
existing macro-economic framework is satisfactory for ensuring the successful launching of the proposed
institutional innovations and pilot operations which should in turn serve as a basis for a long-term
environmentally, socially, and financially sustainable investment program.  The reforms to be
implemented during Phase I, and which are triggers for the Phase II (see Sections B2 and B3 for details)
include: (i)supporting the deconcentration of DNH's monitoring and advisory functions to bring them in
closer proximity to beneficiaries; (ii) supporting rural communities and local goverrnents in carrying
out their mandate of implementing rural infrastructure development programs by giving them the
responsibility for sub-project planning, execution and operation and maintenance; (iii) transferring the
nation's road maintenance financial resource management to an autonomous agency (Road Authority);
(iv) finalizing a comprehensive national rural transport strategy; and (v) establishing a cost recovery
mechanism for financing future irrigation expansion.
C3. Benefits and target population
Benefits
80.   The project will lead to increased food security through higher, sustainable and more reliable
agricultural production thanks to better irrigation water management and infrastructure maintenance,
and higher productivity as a result of increased managerial performance by ON and irrigators'
associations, better strategic planning and sector monitoring by the strengthened government
agencies, better integration of environmental safeguards, a more reliable funding mechanism for
irrigation expansion, and greater private sector involvement in irrigation development.



22
81.   The Road Authority will fully involve road users (i.e. demanders of adequate maintenance) in
its day-to-day management, and the national rural transport strategy, which will be implemented
during NRIP-II, will transfer the full responsibility of rural transport infrastructure to local
communities. This dual approach should increase the adequacy of road maintenance at both levels
and investment at the local level, leading to greater access to social services, lower consumer prices,
better farm input and output prices, and increased rural business activity.
82.   In addition to accessing cleaner water and healthier sanitation, rural communities will be
empowered to plan and manage their water systems in a sustainable manner and consequently build
social capital that will permit them to undertake their own community development programs, with
women (who traditionally play a key role in household water supply) gaining prominence in community
decision-making and facility management.
Target Population
83.   Poverty focus. The project is targeting some of Mali's poorest areas (Mopti, Gao, Timbuktu,
Kidal, M'Bewani) for employment and income generation through irrigated agricultural production, as
well as rural communities with limited access to safe water and improved sanitation. NRIP-I will also
finance the rehabilitation of priority roads to communities with little or no access to markets and services,
particularly those with great agricultural potential, and support a comprehensive national rural transport
strategy that will be followed by massive investment in local rural transport infrastructure during NRIP-
II, which will directly benefit the poor whose transport needs have so far not been adequately addressed.
84.   Gender. Irrigated land will specifically be set aside, and support services put in place, for
vegetable gardening - a predominantly female activity, both at Sokolo and M'Bewani, which will
increase women's incomes and household nutrition. The close proximity of clean water will result in
time savings for women and girls which, coupled with the expected improvements in health, should
generate greater opportunities for education and training, and engaging in informal sector activities.
85.   Private Sector Development. Through one of its pilots at Koumouna, the project targets private
investors that have an interest in farming and sufficient resources to supplement government efforts in
exploiting Mali's huge potential in irrigated agriculture. The project will also promote local private firms
through training offered by AGETIER.
86.   Other Beneficiaries. Apart from direct benefits to the project's primary beneficiaries, indirect
benefits will also accrue to thousands more both upstream and downstream involved in input supply,
establishment, repair, and maintenance of the infrastructure, processing, transport, and marketing of
the incremental output, and consumption of locally produced agricultural products whose importation
would have resulted in higher prices.
C4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Program Coordination
87.   Program Coordination Committee (PCC). The Ministry of Rural Development is the lead
implementing agency, presiding over a 14-member Program Coordinating Committee (PCC) constituted
of the major players in the rural sector, including representatives from several ministries involved in the
project, local governments, the Chamber of Agriculture, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and the
Office du Niger (see project files for a copy of the decree relating to the PCC's creation, its composition,



23
and its mandate). The PCC will be responsible for the overall coordination of the program, including
providing guidance on policy and institutional issues, reviewing and approving annual work programs,
monitoring implementation performance on the basis of the project performance indicators presented in
Annex 1, and conducting impact assessments of NRIP-I's activities.
88.   Program Coordination Unit (PCU). The PCC will be supported by a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) of four officials (the unit's coordinator, his/her deputy, an accountant and a procurement
specialist), plus their support staff. The PCU will, from time to time and as the need arises, recruit short-
term consultants in various fields (project monitoring and evaluation, accounting, procurement, audits,
environment, etc.). The PCU will be responsible for:
* ensuring the preparation of all project audit reports, including those of AGETIER and ON;
* quarterly project implementation reports that will include project implementation performance and
project impact indicators, procurement performance, and the fulfillment of legal covenants as
stipulated in the credit agreement;
* coordinating all' those involved in financing the project;
* coordinating all training activities for selected staff from concerned government agencies; and
* payments for contracts and other authorized transactions executed under the project by the central
departments of the Ministry in charge of rural development, the Ministry in charge of rural water
supply, and that of the Ministry in charge of public works and the Environment. In addition to the
project account, the PCU will manage a common special account for all the central departments.
89.   A project execution manual, acceptable to IDA, will determine the practical implementation
modalities for the different agencies involved in the project. The draft manual was reviewed and agreed
upon at negotiations, and will be finalized before Credit Effectiveness.
Program Monitoring
90.   A  participatory Monitoring and Evaluation System  will be integrated into the project
management processes.  This system  will provide key stakeholders (PCC, PCU, village/farmers
associations, local governments - e.g. communes and regions, AGETIER, ON, concerned public
agencies, etc.. at both decentralized and national levels, and donors) with information to help them
analyze their activities within the project, identify problems and formulate solutions, discover trends and
patterns, schedule project activities, minimize needless project costs, measure progress toward expected
outcomes, and routinely document project achievements. Key indicators are presented in Annex 1. The
draft manual was reviewed and agreed upon at negotiations, and will be finalized before Credit
Effectiveness.
91.   The deputy coordinator in the PCU will double as the M&E coordinator, and will be mandated
with controlling data quality, managing the information system, consolidating overall project information
into annual plans and quarterly report and coordinate impact evaluation studies. He/she will act as a
facilitator/communicator of the monitoring and evaluation results, disseminating them at local, regional,
and national levels as a trainer for the users of the M&E system. He/she will be assisted in this task by
the M&E units of the principal implementing agencies.



24
Project Implementation
92.   Project implementation will be carried out by five implementing agencies under the overall
guidance of the PCC/PCU. Large scale irrigation will be implemented by ON. Small Scale irrigation
will be implemented by DNAER (through its regional directorates), with procurement and supervision
delegated to AGETIER. DNAER will also be responsible for general irrigation sector studies. Rural
water supply and sanitation activities will be implemented byDNH, working in close collaboration with
other national administration agencies, and through local government institutions. For the first phase, the
DNH will be delegated responsibility by the communes to execute borehole subprojects while the open
wells program will be delegated to AGETIER for execution. NRIP-I'sfeeder road rehabilitation will be
implemented by DNTP. Environmental and social protection monitoring activities will be implemented
by DNACPN, working in close collaboration with the other implementing agencies. Consequently, there
is need for procurement capacity at the PCU, ON, the four concerned government departments (DNAER,
DNH, DNTP, DNACPN), and AGETIER, but financial management capacity at the PCU, ON, and
AGETIER only, since the government departments (DNAER, DNH, DNACPN and DNTP) and
AGETIER will be liquidating all their financial obligations through the PCU. Note that although
AGETIER will not have a special account, its financial management system will be supported and its
performance closely monitored. The following is a summary discussion of these arrangements (see
Project Implementation Manual for details).
Large Scale Irrigation
93.   Office du Niger (ON) will be responsible for project activities in its intervention zone as
described in Section Cl(a) above, except for applied research (see next paragraph). The government will
pass on to ON in form of a grant the credit amount corresponding to this component. ON will sign a
separate project agreement with each of the donors financing the component. Although ON will operate
a separate project special account, and will deal directly with the donors, it will keep the PCU informed of
all project activities under its care through quarterly reports, independent of the monthly implementation
progress reports prepared by consultants responsible for civil works supervision. The draft Project
Agreement for IDA financing was reviewed and agreed upon at Negotiations and its signing will be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
94.   The Comite National pour la Recherche Agronomique (CNRA) will be responsible for seeking
on a competitive basis the relevant research institution, national and/or international, for executing the
proposed research sub-component. Alliances between national and international institutions will be
encouraged for building a national capacity in this domain. CNRA will sign a convention with ON, and
all payments to the selected research entity will be liquidated through the special account managed by
ON. The draft of the convention between CNRA and ON was reviewed and agreed upon at negotiations,
and its signing will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Small Scale Irrigation
95.   The National Directorate for Rural Works and Equipment (DNAER) will provide overall
supervision and monitoring of this sub-component. Specifically, the DNAER will be responsible for: (i)
consolidating all regional programs into one annual program for its presentation by the PCU to the PCC
for consideration; (ii) monitoring and consolidating project implementation performance and project
impact indicators (including regional environmental programs and environmental monitoring) for the sub-
component; (iii) carrying out the studies in paragraph 63 above; and (iv) preparing NRIP-II's small scale
irrigation component.



25
96.    The Regional Directorates for Works and Equipment (DRAERs) in Mopti, Timbuktu, and Gao
will manage the day-to-day implementation of the sub-component (the project's pilot activities in Kidal
will be managed out of Gao). Each regional director will be supported by a regional project coordinator
(RPC) who will be hired by the project as a consultant, responsible for the day-to-day operations of the
project. In keeping with the demand-driven approach, interested potential beneficiaries will formulate
their requests with the help of project-funded social intermediaries (consulting firms, NGOs) recruited for
the purpose, which will then be vetted by the local authorities (communes and districts or "cercles") for
conformity with local area development plans before being subjected to a set of evaluation criteria by a
regional committee set up for the purpose. II Assessment of the sub-projects will be carried out using
transparent procedures and clear eligibility criteria, all of which are defined in the Project Implementation
Manual. The regional assembly will be informed of all projects for incorporation in the regional
development program. DRAERs are responsible for monitoring the work of social intermediaries and
overall project implementation and impact performance as detailed in the Project Implementation
Manual. They will support regional directorates for environment and health in monitoring environmental
indicators.
97.    AGETIER  will be delegated all procurement for goods and services by DRAERs, with
AGETIER's responsibility ending with the definitive acceptance of the works/goods in question.l2 (In
addition, AGETIER will also be delegated the management of the water wells sub-component and any
other works as will be determined by the PCC and as AGETIER gets more experience). A convention
between the government and AGETIER defining the rights and obligations of AGETIER was reviewed
and agreed upon at negotiations and its signing will be a condition of Credit Effectiveness. The
Agency's procedures manual and its statutes will be part of this convention. The statutes of the Agency,
its procedures manual and its convention, as well as its executive staff (Director General, technical and
financial directors) will at all times be acceptable to the Government and to all institutions financing the
projects executed by the Agency. AGETIER will not operate a special account, but will liquidate all its
financial obligations through the PCU.
98.    User groups will be responsible for the management and maintenance of the irrigation perimeters
once developed, i.e. they will in particular be in charge of funding all operation and maintenance costs
including amortization charges for water pumping equipment. To do so, these groups will be assisted by
the social intermediaries (in particular NGOs) for up to two years after a perimeter enters into production.
These intermediaries will also provide assistance for crop production and marketing, input purchase and
operating cost (revolving fund) management. After this transition period, the user groups are expected to
manage these activities on their own, with the provision of services being fully tumed over to the national
extension service and private operators.
Rural Transport Infrastructure
99.    The National Directorate for Public Works (DNTP) will be responsible for the physical
implementation of the road component during Phase I (mostly regional roads). However, Phase II will
support exclusively the construction of small local transport infrastructure which are the responsibility of
rural communes under the country's decentralization framework. Although this has yet to be adopted
11 The regional director, the governor's advisor for rural development, the regional directoifor Sanitation and Pollution and Nuisances Control,
the regional director for rural/agricultural services, the regional director for health.
12 That is, pre-investment technical studies, execution of civil works including works supervision, purchase and installation of pumping
equipment. However, the DRAERs will be responsible for elaborating the requisite terms of reference for all procurement (with support from
DNAER) and for ensuring the quality of the goods and services procured.



26
under the national rural transport strategy, it is expected that communes, and probably local communities
as well, will be fully in charge of the construction and management of such infrastructure. Given the
expected instrumental role of the central and regional governments in cofinancing this infrastructure's
development, this strategy will need to clarify the required cost-sharing arrangements (organizational set
up and procedures). DNTP will also be responsible for pilot activities aimed at testing various
institutional arrangements, as part of the elaboration of the rural transport strategy.
100.  For the major main network, the Road Authority (RA) will be responsible for managing
resources generated primarily from fuel taxes and other levies for the purposes of road maintenance. It
will directly manage the maintenance program for major national roads (in collaboration with the DNTP),
but will transfer resources to regional governments for feeder road maintenance as matching grants under
a formula to be determined. The allocation of RA resources between main axes and feeder roads will be
taken in form of a decree (upon proposition of the Board of the RA), taking into consideration the
respective maintenance needs and the regional governments' ability to pay. This will be preceded by the
reclassification of the road network.
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
101.  The National Directorate for Water Supply (DNH) will be the implementing agency for this
component. A national coordinator for the component has been selected to head a small team comprising
an assistant coordinator, two technical assistants (a technical implementation advisor and a community
development advisor) and support staff. This team will be responsible for overall coordination,
supervision and monitoring of the component, including disseminating the sector strategy, supporting the
formulation of community water and sanitation subprojects, assisting the communes to execute their
subprojects through delegation of responsibility, monitoring and consolidating project implementation
performance and project impact indicators (including environmental mitigation measures), managing the
procurement process for the borehole program on. behalf of the participating communes, providing
assistance to the regional directorates as needed, and conducting general sector studies.
102.  The Regional Directorates for Water Supply (DRHs) will be responsible for the day-to-day
implementation of project activities. DRHs will be directly responsible for supporting the communes
and communities to select, formulate and appraise the water supply and sanitation subprojects. For the
first phase, the DRH would program and execute subprojects on boreholes fitted with human-operated
pumps and solar-powered boreholes through delegation from the communes. However, the procurement
and execution of subprojects for construction of dug wells would be delegated to AGETIER. In either
case, the pre-investment support to communities for community sub-project, formulation, community
education and training and post-investment monitoring will be delegated to other intermediaries (e.g.
consulting firms, NGOs). Project activities will be demand-driven, with intermediaries (consulting firms,
NGOs, Partner Organizations - PO) assisting in diffusing information about the project, explaining the
options and the financial implications of each technical option (capital cost contribution, operating and
maintenance costs, replacement costs), assessing the potential beneficiaries' willingness to participate in
the project, assisting communities in formulating water supply and sanitation subprojects, setting up user
management tools and structures, and in carrying out health and hygiene education activities related to
rural water supply, and monitoring post-investment performance.
103.  Regional teams, each comprised of an engineer and a community development specialist, and
supported by a regional project coordinator (hired as a consultant), will be responsible for the day-to-day
coordination of the component, including supervising the social intermediaries (consulting firms, NGOs),
assisting the communes to pre-select and appraise beneficiary applications and subsequent engineering



27
design and construction. The project will report regularly and consult with the cercles and regional
assemblies on project progress in order to have their support and for them to update their development
plans.
104.  The Department of Sanitation and Control of Pollution and Nuisance (DNACPN) of the
Ministry of Territorial Equipment, Environment and Urbanization will support the DNH with
implementation of the hygiene education and sanitation activities, for which it will appoint a staff
member to collaborate with the water component national team at DNH in Bamako. The regional
departments of DNACPN will provide support to the regional project teams in planning and latrine
artisan training for improved sanitation facilities' construction and for hygiene education and promotion
activities.
105.  User groups. The management, operation, and maintenance of the installed water and sanitation
infrastructure will be the responsibility of the beneficiaries.  Gender balanced user groups and
management committees will be formed by communities to take responsibility for the management and
operation of the systems.
Environmental Protection
106.  The Department of Sanitation and Control of Pollution and Nuisance (DNACPN) will be
responsible for the implementation of the environmental protection measures.  Under a national
coordinator from DNACPN, a small team comprising a deputy coordinator and a technical assistant
specialized in environmental issues will coordinate all activities aimed at mitigating environmental
impacts, whether these are executed by DNACPN or other agencies. At the regional level, regional
directorates, DRACPN, will coordinate the environmental protection measures implemented by other
agencies.
D: PROJECT RATIONALE
Dl. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
107.  The concept of a long-term adaptable lending program was preferred over a traditional project
because of the need for an extended commitment during which the institutional framework would be
strengthened as a basis for a much more expanded investment program. Small village investments were
excludedfrom the project as these are/will be handled in current/planned Bank-financed rural community
support projects such as the Natural Resources Management Project (Cr. 2370) and its planned successor,
and through the Local Initiative Support Project (Cr. N0370). Because of the combination of capacity
building needs for local firms, and the scattered nature and small size of some of the investments (e.g.
community irrigation perimeters), the use of an administrative project unit with cumbersome procurement
procedures was rejected in favor of a private agency (AGETIER) with streamlined administrative and
procurement procedures.



28
D2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Bank-financed             Implementation        Development
Progress (IP)      Objective (DO)
Poverty Alleviation   Grassroots Initiative to Fight Hunger     S                    S
and Poverty (Cr. N0370 MLI),
ongoing
Transport             Transport Sector (Cr. 2617-MLI),          S                    S
ongoing
Rural Water Supply    Health Sector Investment Project          S                    S
(Cr. 3155 MLI)
Agriculture           Office du Niger (Cr. 1906-MLI),           S                    S
Development Support   completed
Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion
(Cr. N021 MLI), ongoing                   S                    S
Natural Resource Management               S                    S
.______________  (Cr. 2370-MLI), ongoing                              _
Agricultural Research                     S                    S
(Cr. 2557-MLI), ongoing
Agro-Processing Project                   S                    S
(Cr. 2737-MLI), ongoing
Agricultural Services and Farmers
Organizations Support Project,
planned
Other development agencies
VRES - ongoing
Dutch/FrenchlKfW funded projects at
Office du Niger - ongoing
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
D3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
108.   Sub-Sectoral Strategies. A coherent institutional framework is a key foundation for sustainable
sectoral investments. Comprehensive irrigation and rural water supply strategies have been elaborated,
and work on a national rural transport strategy in Mali is advanced (to be completed during NRIP-I).
109.   Participation   and   Capital   Contribution.   Beneficiary   involvement   in   project
identification/execution and management, and significant contribution to initial investments either
financially or in kind ensure consistency with their priorities, and enhance ownership, which further
ensures sustainability, an approach that will be adopted for the small-scale irrigation, and rural water
supply sub-projects in NRIP-I, and local rural transport infrastructure in NRIP-II.



29
110.  Autonomous Road Maintenance Management. Autonomous road maintenance mechanisms with
predictable revenues from road users have been effective in ensuring adequate road maintenance, hence
the proposed Road Authority.
111.  Capacity. Past experience has demonstrated the effectiveness of a private non-profit executing
agency that has been delegated the management of project execution in developing the capacity of local
enterprises, an experience that will be extended to rural areas through AGETIER which will implement
part of the program. Similarly, past experience has demonstrated the payoffs (in tenns of sustainability)
from effective training of irrigation and rural water supply management committees, a key feature of this
project.
112. Funds for Input Purchase. Potential returns on investments in small scale irrigation tend to suffer
from low input use due to lack of access to credit. Experience in Timbuktu and Gao has demonstrated
that with proper training and support, farmers can effectively manage revolving funds for input purchase,
another key feature of this project.
D4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
113.  GOM has identified NRIP as a priority program and has nominated a substantive coordinator
who heads an inter-ministerial project preparation committee. The government requested for, and
obtained, a PHRD grant and PPF to finance preparatory activities, including national workshops to
discuss sub-sectoral strategies, and several project preparation studies that have already been carried out
under the national team's leadership. GOM strongly believes in the concept of a non-profit, autonomous,
rural infrastructure executing agency, which will be the first of its kind in West Africa. GOM opted to
devote its resources from the ongoing Transport Sector Project to finance preparatory studies for the
feeder road component. Although the RTTP had some initial difficulties in its assistance to GOM to
elaborate its rural transport strategy, there is a renewed commitment from the new government.
D5. Value added of Bank support in this project
114.  Building on its experience in supporting rural infrastructure programs in over 30 countries, the
Bank has assisted the Malian government in the preparation, and will continue to assist it in the
implementation, of comprehensive strategies for irrigation development, rural transportation, and rural
water supply and sanitation. The Bank will assist the Borrower to create synergy through a more
effective coordination of all the donors intervening in these sectors. Although recent far-reaching
reforms at ON are already bearing fruit in terms of increased farm productivity and better infrastructure
maintenance, they still need nurturing and consolidating, which will be achieved through further capacity
building for ON and its farmers under this project. The Bank will assist GOM in leveraging its limited
resources through greater beneficiary contribution to, and increased private sector participation in,
irrigation development. The Bank will also continue to work with government on maintaining an open
and stable rice policy.



30
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS
(Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
El. Economic Analysis
Irrigation
115.   Separate economic analyses were conducted for each of the large irrigation perimeters (Sokolo,
M'Bewani, and Koumouna). However, since investments in small scale irrigation are demand driven,
only typical farm models were simulated based on data from current irrigation schemes in the project area
and future input, output and market projections. Only direct measurable benefits from incremental
agricultural production were considered.
116.  Key Assumptions (additional perimeter-specific assumptions were also made as appropriate-
details in annex 4 and project files): (a) 20 year planning horizon; (b) an opportunity cost of capital of
12 percent; (c) 20% vegetable loss during handling, transportation, and cleaning; (d) opportunity cost of
labor of CFAF 750/day; (e) cropping intensity of 120% at full production; and (f) economic prices
conversion factors of 1.227 for paddy, 0.6 for urea, 0.7 for skilled labor, and 0.0 for family labor.
117.  Cost Benefit Summary: (NPV = US$ 8.7 million; ERR = 18.2%). The overall economic rate of
return is estimated at 18.2 percent, with the individual rates of return ranging from 14.0 percent for
Koumouna to 27.2 percent for M'Bewani. The economic rates of return for small-scale irrigation
perimeters range from 15.5 percent at Gao to 18.3 percent at Tombouctou.
118.  Sensitivity Analysis. The overall rate of return would be reduced to 14.6% if the projected
benefits were to decline by 10%, or reduced to 14.2% if production costs would go up by 10%, or
reduced to 14.0% if projected investment costs would increase by 10%. Benefits are not expected to
substantially decline as conservative prices and yields have been used in the estimate, and irrigated
agriculture has a very stable output. Similarly, conservative cost estimates have been used in the
analysis. See Section F2 for the main risks that may affect project performance, and the proposed
mitigation measures.
Rural Transport Infrastructure
119.  Only quantifiable benefits were attributed to the entire road investment costs in the analysis,
which understates the return on the investment as very substantial hard-to-quantify benefits are expected
to accrue from the investment (e.g. access to social services). For each road, the analysis assumes a
planning horizon of 20 years, an opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent, a demand elasticity for
passenger transportation of 1, and a demand elasticity of merchandise transportation of 1.



31
NPV
US$
Road       Additional Assumptions                          mill.    ERR        Sensitivity Analysis
Nara-       * initial traffic bump: 70% Nara-Sokolo stretch; 48%   1.38  14.9%  NPV    below    zero  if:
Niono         Sokolo-Niono stretch                                             investment costs up > 25%, or
(202.3 km)  . vehicle savings, O&M: 374 CFAF/vehicle/km for                    benefits down> 18%.
current traffic and 182 CFAF/vehicle/km for
induced traffic
* residual value at end of planning horizon of 16
percent
Banamba-                                                   0.05     12.2%      With an ERR of about 12%, a
Niono                                                                          slight change in costs or
(210 km)                                                                       benefits will result in negative
NPV
Djenne-Say  * initial traffic bump: 50%  induced traffic; 40%   0   12.1%      Negative NPV, but with soil-
(60 km)       diverted traffic.                                                cement mixture, it takes a
* 4% annual traffic growth after initial bump.         (13.9%      decrease of 12.5% in benefits
* 5% increase in agricultural production               with  soil-  to reduce NPV to below zero.
. recurrent cost of 2.5% of construction costs         cement
* periodic maintenance of 10% of costs                 mixture)
120.   In addition to quantifiable benefits, the Nara-Niono road will make 7 health centers easily
accessible, as well as link up 37 schools to major urban centers. The preliminary unit cost estimate for
the Djenne-Say road of CFAF 29.4 million/km is high due to the fact that suitable gravel is as far away as
40 km, and sections of the road have to be built in such a way as not be submerged in the rainy season
(June-October). Using the soil-cement technique should reduce the total cost by 15% and increase the
ERR to 13.9%, making it sufficiently profitable. This road will link this community's four schools, 3
health centers, and 7 adult education centers with the rest of the country.
121.   Since the small local roads that will be built or rehabilitated in pilot activities will be selected
through a demand-based approach, their ex-ante economic analysis is not possible at this time. In
addition, given that these roads will largely be of local importance with very little major traffic, a
standard economic analysis is of little relevance in assessing their benefits. Other criteria, such as least-
cost criteria, or multi-sectoral criteria will be used.  In order to maximize cost-effectiveness of
investments (i.e. to favor investments with the lowest cost per capita), the desired level of service will be
limited to year-round basic access. Speed and comfort will not be emphasized.
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
122.   Whereas the component's costs are easily measurable, the health benefits associated with clean
drinking water are difficult to quantify and cost. Consequently, this component was only subjected to a
cost effectively test, whereby the least costly way of delivering the desired service was opted for by the
project.
E2. Financial (see Annex 5)
Fiscal Impact
123.   The government will contribute US$ 17.4 million to NRIP-I over five years in counterpart
funding, which is deemed manageable. The incremental cost of US$200,000 in extension services at ON
is less than the US$300,000 savings to GOM resulting from transferring primary infrastructure



32
maintenance at ON from GOM to farmers as envisaged.13. Maintenance needs for the three roads will be
met through the Road Authority with direct levies on users (through a fuel surcharge).14 Similarly,
future maintenance needs for rural water supply infrastructure will be met entirely by beneficiaries. This
analysis does not take into account the tax revenue that will be generated from the additional economic
activity due to the project (input supply, establishment, repair, and maintenance of the infrastructure,
processing, transport, produce marketing).
Cost Recovery
124.   Irrigation.   Transferring  GOM's current contribution  to  primary  irrigation  infrastructure
maintenance to ON farmers will translate into an addition of at least CFAF 5,000/ha to the current water
service charge of about CFAF 62,000/ha on rehabilitated land.15  The resulting water service charge is
equivalent to slightly above 10% of paddy yield per hectare, which is very reasonable. In the case of the
"lease-purchase" pilot, farmers would make an annual repayment of about 40,000 FCFAF/ha, bringing
the total payment (water charges and capital contribution) to approximately CFAF 110,000 or 17% of
paddy yield.16 This is sufficient to leave them with a return of between CFAF 2,000/labor day and
CFAF 3,500/labor day, which is still very remunerative. Farm models for privately developed land
indicate variable profitability, depending upon the equipment used, ranging from 14 - 20 percent.
125.   Rural Transport Infrastructure.  It is envisaged that for a start, the equivalent of the current
budgetary allocation for road maintenance will be transmitted directly from the taxing agency to the Road
Authority, instead of transiting through the budgetary process. Thus, at the beginning, there is neither a
budgetary nor an "at the pump" impact. The key difference will be the rapid mobilization of these
resources, which will no longer transit through the treasury. Meanwhile, studies will be conducted to
determine (i) the distribution of the road network between the central and local governments, and (ii) the
maintenance needs of the entire national network. These results will help determine the amount of the
fuel charge and other levies to apply to road users for purposes of road maintenance.
126.   Regarding local transport infrastructure, the national rural transport strategy will envisage a
demand-driven approach to infrastructure development, which will be based on cost-sharing
arrangements both for investment and maintenance in order for this approach to be effective. The level
of community participation has to be high enough to discourage frivolous requests from communities and
to encourage them to adequately maintain the infrastructure. Some initial levels will be proposed early in
the strategy formulation process and tested in pilot activities before determining more appropriate levels.
127.   Rural Water Supply.  Similarly, communities desirous of a water supply investment will be
required to contribute a share of the investment cost prior to the execution of the rural water point as part
of the expression of their demand. The actual amount will depend upon the level of service chosen by
individual communities. The financial contribution for the minimum level of service is 5% of the cost of
investment and the maximum contribution is 10% for piped systems. Beneficiaries will pay in full all
operating and maintenance costs of their facilities (see section Fl for details).
13 Extension services at Mopti, Tombouctou and Gao will initially be provided under the project through contracts with NGOs, but gradually
phased into the existing national extension service that already operates in the area.
14 During Phase II the cost of constructing and maintaining rural transport infrastructure will be split among GOM, local govemments and
communities according to what will have been decided in the national rural transport strategy. It is expected that the largest share of the
construction costs will be born by the central government and the largest share of maintenance will be bom by the communities and local
governments.
15 Under the current contrat-plan (1999-2001), farmers pays a water service charge of CFAF 62,000/ha for rehabilitated land and from CFAF
46,000/ha to CFAF 53,000/ha for non-rehabilitated land.
16 Currently, some farmers rent land from other farmers for prices as high as CFAF 100,000/ha/year



33
Financial rate of return
128.   The project has an overall financial rate of return of 17.2%, with individual financial rates of
return on irrigation perimeters and roads ranging of 12.1% to 27.6%.
E3. Technical
129.   Satisfactory technical norms regarding large scale irrigation exist at ON. The combination of
contractors (primary and secondary infrastructure) and beneficiaries (tertiary infrastructure) in irrigation
development was tested at ON and found feasible.17 The planned tests on equipment and irrigation
designs conducive to mechanized farming should fill the existing knowledge gaps on this subject.
Regarding small scale irrigation perimeters, technical norms for this sub-sector have been updated. In
order to reduce investment costs, only small scale perimeters for which a protective dike is not necessary,
either because they are located outside a flood plain (except in exceptional cases), or because a protective
dike already exists will be considered. Farmers' technical capacity regarding maintenance needs
assessment, maintenance programming, and water management will be strengthened.
130.   Regarding feeder roads, existing norms from the Ministry in charge of Public Works will be
used, which are deemed satisfactory. However, current standards are too costly for the communes and
local communities given the low traffic volume of their local roads, and their limited technical and
financial capacity for road construction and maintenance. Consequently, Phase II's Procedures Manual,
which will be elaborated during Phase I after adopting the national rural transport strategy, will contain
tested technical norms requiring very little technical and financial capacity, much more adapted to the
type and volume of traffic at the local level.
131.   Regarding rural water supply, DNH will identify water pumps and equipment which are suitable
for local conditions and only this type of equipment will be used in the project.
E4. Institutional
Project management
132.   Since the PCC will be a freshly constituted committee, with no past collective experience in the
management of Bank-financed projects, including procurement capacity for effective procurement
oversight, a one-week orientation seminar will be carried out to familiarize the committee members with
the project's objectives and the PCC's role in project implementation. A training program for thePCU is
also envisaged, particularly in procurement and financial management, including audits. The future PCU
head currently leads the project preparation team, and so he is very familiar with the project. A
satisfactory financial management system will be set-up before Credit Effectiveness. An action plan for
setting up a financial system for the PCU and AGETIER was reviewed at appraisal and found satisfactory
and an accounting firm has been recruited to set it up. Provision has been made in the project for
technical assistance to the PCU to be called upon as need arises.
17 Under NRIP-I, farmers around the same major canal will have the option of doing the work themselves or paying the corresponding amount
so that the work is done by the contractor.



34
Executing agencies
133.   The following is a summary of the procurement assessment for the project's implementing
agencies which was done during appraisal (see annex 6 for details of the assessment and the proposed
action plan):
* ON has long experience in implementing donor funded projects, including the recently closed, Bank-
funded Office du Niger II project (closed in November 1998). Its staff has participated in
procurement training programs for World Bank funded projects and is procurement proficient.
However, their procurement planning and filing capacity is deficient and will be strengthened early in
the project, and monitored every six months thereafter.   Although there has been marked
improvement in ON's financial management, some strengthening in form of training and equipment
is needed and will be done in the early stages of project implementation.
* DNAER will delegate the procurement for the small scale irrigation sub-component to AGETIER.
However, it will procure consultant services for general irrigation sector studies. Some of its staff are
familiar with Malian procurement procedures, but will be offered procurement training using World
Bank guidelines in order to enhance their performance.
* DNTP has similarly performed satisfactorily in implementing World Bank-funded projects, and
therefore it is expected to satisfactorily carry out procurement for, and monitoring of, the feeder road
component.18 A procurement strengthening action plan similar to ON's is proposed.
* DNH staff is familiar with World Bank procurement procedures from past and on-going IDA funded
projects as well.19 However, its procurement planning and filing and contract management need to
be improved, for which training is planned during the first six months of the project, and close
monitoring thereafter. In addition, DNH cannot effectively monitor and offer support to local
communities. Thus, some technical support and training has been provided for in the project, as well
as the decentralization of its activities.
*  AGETIER has only been recently created, thus it has no past collective experience with Bank funded
projects. Several measures will be taken to ensure adequate and satisfactory project execution: (i)
guaranteeing the Agency's independence and staffing it with high-quality, experienced individuals
with proven management skills, the ability to work with NGOs and local communities and with a
good understanding of rural issues in Mali; (ii) ensuring that the Agency follows agreed upon
operating, procurement, and administrative guidelines and regulations for project management; (iii)
training the Agency's staff in procurement and financial management before project effectiveness
(financed on the PPF); (iv) auditing the agency's accounts every six months; (v) a small work initial
load that will increase gradually in tandem with improved procurement and project management
experience.
* DNACPN has only been recently created, thus it has no past collective experience with Bank funded
projects. Its procurement planning and filing and contract management need to be improved, for
18 During NRIP-II, it is expected that small rural transport infrastructure will be implemented by local govemments, whose implementation
capacity, and that of other rural institutions, will have improved, as will have the World Bank's experience in community-based contracting,
all of which will be reflected in NRIP-ll's implementation manual.
19 Together with CMDT, DNH implemented the rural water supply component of the recently closed Ag Secal hybrid (Cr. 2163-MLI, closed in
December 1997), and is implementing the on-going Health project, in addition to other donor funded projects.



35
which training is planned during the first six months of the project, and close monitoring thereafter.
In addition, short-term missions of international and local consultants for its support have been
provided for in the project.
E5. Social
134.  During appraisal, independent environmental and social analyses of the NRIP project were
carried out in an integrated manner. The analyses were subsequently combined in a Summary
Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA). The Summary ESA concluded that the project could have
some major negative environmental and social impacts as well as substantial environmental and social
benefits. The detailed, independent environmental and social analyses and the summary ESA report are
available in project files.
135.  Major environmental impacts are primarily in the irrigation component. The Summary ESA
concluded that potential adverse impacts could be fully mitigated, if the measures prescribed below are
applied systematically. The measures proposed for the project in the Environmental and Social
Management Plan (ESMP) contribute to the establishment of a comprehensive socio-environmental
management system in the ON zone, ensure that social and environmental guidelines are included in the
national strategy for local rural transport and in road rehabilitation, and invest resources so that local
communities will have access to water supply and sanitation and can benefit from support services to
sustain the facilities. The mitigation measures specified in the ESMP have been integrated in project
design in two ways. All institution building, training, legal, and stakeholder information measures have
been incorporated in each of the three project components. Where further clarification of issues is
needed or investments are required, the measures have been included in a special NRIP Socio-
Environment component. Implementation of these measures will ensure that the project complies with
World Bank Safeguard Policies, and that opportunities that are presented to "do good" as well as to "save
from harm" are fully taken up. This is explained in the following:
136.  Safeguard Policy 4.11 -  Cultural Property. NRIP's irrigation and road components involve
significant movement of earth and surfacial environmental changes, which prima facie entail the risk of
damaging cultural property. A cultural heritage and property survey was carried out in the project region
and found that work on the large-scale irrigation component at the ON will not substantially affect
cultural property. According to preliminary engineering studies already done, rehabilitating the three
roads will not cause damage to cultural property. In a generic sense, small-scale irrigation development,
when carried out without proper requisite assessments, could entail some risks of damaging cultural
property. NRIP was determined to be in compliance with the Safeguard Policy, provided the
environmental assessments for the small-scale irrigation are conducted as stipulated (specific irrigation
sites to be determined during project implementation according to the demand).
137.  Safeguard Policy 4.20 -  Indigenous People.  Social groups in Mali vary considerably in
population size, internal social differentiation, and social influence. Nonetheless, no ethnic groups in the
Project area are deemed to be indigenous under the definitions of the Bank's policy on Indigenous
Peoples. Some NRIP project activities will take place in areas frequented by small ethnic groups, such as
transhumant herders and traditional (semi-nomadic) fishermen. These groups will get benefits from the
project not because they are indigenous but because they constitute a set of stakeholders whose special
needs have been recognized and are dealt with in the Project.



36
138.  Safeguard Policy 4.30 - Involuntary Resettlement. NRIP's ON irrigation component might
involve voluntary relocation of four villages: two near the M'Bewani perimeter (Zambougou and
Massala), and two near the Koumouna perimeter (Komola and Zafina). All residents of these four
villages are being allowed to stay where they are, although additional throughput of water (if it were not
to be accompanied with adequate vector control and other measures), might increase the incidence of
some diseases, e.g. malaria. However, adequate vector/disease control and sanitation measures have been
provided for in the project. In addition, an area to host self-settled people (should some choose to do so)
has been allocated, and sufficient resources have been provided for. (It is possible that more than just
people from those four villages may wish to come, should some outlying villages choose to move near
the main road, a common trend). General assessments were carried out during project preparation, and
specific environmental/social assessments are stipulated in the ESMP for those that opt for relocation.
The assessments will determine appropriate compensation for assets under the relocation, logistical
support for moving, and a relocation grant for the persons concerned.
139.  Operational Policy 4.20 - The Gender Dimension of Development. As indicated above, the
social issues related to the Safeguard Policies have been integrated in project design. In addition to the
Safeguard policies, the project aims at reducing gender disparities and enhancing women's participation
in economic development through the integration of gender considerations in its design. The project also
foresees the formulation of a special action research/policy on gender in the Socio-Environment
component of the project
E6. Environmental Assessment (Environment Category B)
140.  Safeguard Policy 4.01 -Environmental Assessment. The project as a whole was subjected to an
environmental impact assessment during its preparation. However, certain project activities that are
demand driven (and, therefore, their specific location cannot be determined a priori, e.g. boreholes, and
small village irrigated plots of land) which could not be defined during project preparation will be
subjected to separate environmental assessments once they are identified during project implementation.
These separate environmental assessments have been budgeted for and are described under "Institutional
Measures" in the ESMP.
141.  Safeguard Policy 4.04-Natural Habitats. Natural habitats are defined as "land and water areas
where (1) the ecosystems' biological communities are formed largely by native plant and animal species,
and (2) human activity has not essentially modified the area's primary ecological functions". Certain
project activities involve, or may involve, land clearing and the replacement of natural vegetation, e.g. in
the irrigation development component (although even here over 80% of the work involves rehabilitating
infrastructure on existing irrigated land) and in the road rehabilitation component where some minor
alignment changes might be involved. In addition, increased irrigation development at the ON, if carried
out in the absence of concurrent measures to improve water use efficiency on existing schemes, can
decrease overall minimum flows in the Niger and affect, possibly degrade, the Niger Inland Delta
ecosystems (in this particular case, however, the resulting reduction in water use- after the planned
rehabilitation is expected to compensate for additional water needs due to new land development under
the project). The project is in compliance with the Safeguard Policy, provided mitigation measures
included in the NRIP Socio-Environment component are carried out. The compensatory measures are
prescribed in the section on "Investments" and where further clarification of issues is needed, details are
given in the section on "Studies".



37
142.  Safeguard Policy 4.09 -Pest Management. Procurement of pesticides is not envisaged under
the project, nor do farmers at ON or on small scale irrigation schemes currently use or plan to use
pesticides. On the other hand, some ongoing initiatives on IPM research should be continued and
strengthened, and this aspect is included in the NRIP Socio-Environment component.
143.  Safeguard Policy 4.36 -Forestry. The NRIP project is not directly involved in operations in the
forest sector. However, the increasing population in the Office du Niger zone is beginning to exert
pressure on the forest and fuelwood resources. In addition to promoting improved cooking stoves and
support to a tree planting program, a special study to address woodland depletion concerns is expected to
develop long-term community-driven solutions to the problem.
144.  Safeguard Policy 4.37 -Safety of Dams. The large-scale irrigation component of the project
relies on the storage and operation of the existing Markala Dam, which is under control of the ON.
Under the recently closed World Bank ON project, the Markala Dam was repaired and improved and full
level inspections and dam safety assessments were conducted and documented. An effective dam safety
program is in operation. No further NRIP actions are required.
145.  Safeguard Policy 7.50 -Projects on International Waterways. The policy specifically applies
to irrigation that involve the use or potential pollution of international waterways. The large-scale
irrigation component of the NRIP project relies on the waters of the Niger River, an international river
with potential downstream effects in Mali itself, in Niger, Nigeria, and the Atlantic Ocean. As stated
above, it is expected that water consumption economies made from the on-going and planned
rehabilitation (both under this project and projects financed by other donors) will compensate for the
additional water needs at M'Bewani and Koumouna. In addition, notification of the proposed NRIP
project was made to the Niger River Basin Authority, as required by the international treaty governing the
use of the Niger River and by the Bank's Safeguard Policy. Even though NRIP is formally in compliance
with the Safeguard Policy, certain measures have been designed to strengthen water and environmental
management in the Niger River Basin. The actions are integrated in NRIP's irrigation component.
146.  Safeguard Policy 7.60-Projects in Disputed Areas. The project does not involve activities in
disputed areas. NRIP is in compliance with the Safeguard Policy, without further project measures.
E7. Participatory Approach
Primary Beneficiaries and Other Affected Groups
147.  During Project Preparation:
* national workshops, attended by government officials, donors, farmer representatives, NGOs, and
members of civil society, were conducted to discuss each of the sub-sector strategies, and regional
workshops held to discuss the project's implementation arrangements, the outcome of which is
serving as the basis for this project;20
* consultations were also held with farmers on physical participation in irrigation construction and
possible voluntary relocation for villages that are distant from the irrigated land and those that would
be too close to irrigated land.
20 In addition, workshops continue to be held country wide to get the views of road users before finalizing the rural transport strategy.



38
148.   During Project Implementation:
*  through joint ON-farmer committees, ON  irrigators currently do (and will continue to) fully
participate in land allocation, water service charge determination and management, and are present
on ON's Board of Directors;
*  in conformity with the national strategies, all rural water supply, sanitation, and community
irrigation infrastructure will be constructed on a demand-driven basis with beneficiaries deciding on
the system/facility desired and assuming full responsibility for operation and maintenance, including
amortization2l (this will also be the case with local transport infrastructure, to be implemented in
Phase II);
*  experienced social intermediaries (NGOs, consulting firms etc..) will be recruited to facilitate this
participatory process, and a participatory monitoring and evaluation system will be used to ensure
the adequacy of the process, including the access of poor communities to project funded
activities;22
* users and farmer representatives, local govemments, and transport unions will be involved in the
management of the Road Authority.
Other Key Stakeholders
149.   During Preparation and Implementation:
* members of civil society, including NGOs, were involved in strategy formulation and will play a
major role in pre-investment (sub-project identification) and post-investment (operation and
maintenance, extension services, ...) activities.
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
Fl. Sustainability
Irrigation
150.   The maintenance/management of ON's irrigation infrastructure is a shared responsibility between
GOM  (primary infrastructure) and the farmers (secondary and tertiary infrastructure, and ON's operating
costs), with the transfer of GOM's current contribution to primary infrastructure maintenance financing to
farmers envisaged under the project (to be reflected in the 2002-2004 ON-Farmer-GOM performance
contract or "contrat-plan"), which is feasible as discussed in Section E2 above.23 The water service
charge recovery rate stands at an average of 97% and is expected to remain high. The maintenance of
primary and secondary canals is generally satisfactory, but there is need for better maintenance
programming, which will be achieved through the planned capacity building program for ON and joint
21 This demand will be measured in part by their willingness to contribute toward project costs.
22 For example, communities are required to pay a minimum of 5% of investment costs for water and institutional sanitation systems and full
responsibility for operations and maintenance and cost of household latrine construction. Since the project will offer a wide range of
technological options (with a corresponding range of costs) poor communities and the poor within communities should be able to participate.
Studies have shown that communities are able to pay the 5% or more of investment costs from their own resources.
23 Already, not only do farmers pay for all secondary infrastructure maintenance, but also 50% of primary infrastructure maintenance by the
year 2001.This progressive transfer of primary infrastructure maintenance responsibility to farmers is made possible by the progressive
increases in the land area brought under production, farm yields and farm revenue.



39
farmer/ON water management committees.24 A study will be carried out to ascertain real maintenance
needs for the principal infrastructure. In addition, GOM's continued commitment to cereal market and
trade liberalization should lead to sustained farm profitability, thus greater prospects for infrastructure
maintenance.
151.   Where adequate farmer training and close follow-up have been provided, particularly when
offered through specialized NGOs, canal/drain maintenance on small scale irrigation schemes, which is
all manual, has been timely and adequate. The major challenge of these schemes is the replacement of
pumping equipment (requiring an annual amortization equivalent to 8% of paddy production per
household), on top of operation and maintenance needs. Paddy yields of 5.0 tons/ha, as currently the case
on schemes with adequate support services (credit, input supply) and farmer training, are sufficient to
guarantee long-term sustainability. In addition to strengthening irrigators' associations regarding
maintenance assessment and execution, and water/crop management, the project will provide initial
grants for input purchase, to be managed by these associations (with support from NGOs) and on-lent to
their members on a revolving basis, thus ensuring sustained productivity and adequate amortization.
Rural Transport Infrastructure
152.   Sustainability of the feeder roads will be ensured by the creation and satisfactory operation of the
Road Authority, including a fornula for distributing funds between major highways and feeder roads and
by adequate participation by local authorities in financing feeder road maintenance. It is expected that by
the end of Phase I, the RA will be fully operational and adequately experienced. Although the RA's
resources will initially be insufficient for covering all maintenance needs for the entire national road
network, higher levies will gradually be imposed once the RA's capacity is adequately established. It is
expected that by project's end, sufficient resources will be available, and the institutional framework
firnly in place, to take care of the future maintenance needs for the three roads to be rehabilitated under
the project. Note that in Phase II, new investments in rural transport infrastructure will take place under
the institutional framework to be defined by the national rural transport strategy, which is aimed at their
increased sustainability through a high level of participation of final users in investment decision making
and financing. The overarching goal of the rural transport strategy is to create a framework that will lead
to full sustainability of rural transport infrastructure. Pilot activities to be carried out during the project
will allow for testing different propositions, which will lead to an informed comprehensive and detailed
strategy.
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
153.   The overall project concept is geared toward ensuring greater sustainability. The demand-driven
approach will create genuine ownership of the facilities by the beneficiaries, who will also have to present
a credible operation and maintenance plan as part of the application. This plan will be thoroughly
evaluated by the project, and successful applicants will be required to open a maintenance account, with
satisfactory mechanisms for its periodic replenishment. For a hand-pump, maintenance and amortization
charges amount to about CFAF 11,240 per household for a village of 400 inhabitants, CFAF 31,000 for a
solar pump for a village of 1,500 inhabitants, and CFAF 24,000 for a large village of 2,800 inhabitants.
Evidently, solar pumps will be more attractive in areas of high income like in the cotton/rice producing
areas. These charges are within the capacity of the beneficiaries to pay as evidenced by the socio-
24 Farmers are currently responsible for the manual maintenance of tertiary canals, which represent some 10% of total canal maintenance work
volume. Although they are not yet perfect at it, they have been displaying steady improvement in its mastery, both in timing and work quality.
In any case, integrating tertiary canal maintenance in the overall maintenance program carried out by contractors, which would occur at very
little additional cost should the farmers' performance be deemed wanting, remains an option.



40
economic study conducted as part of the project preparation. Beneficiary training will be carried out
regarding operation and maintenance of the RWSS infrastructure. In addition, the integration of water
supply, sanitation and hygiene education will maximize the health benefits, thus providing loud
testimony for a concerted maintenance effort. The availability of goods and services, especially spares
and repair services, will be enhanced through the project's capacity building activities that will render the
private sector able to respond to demand for services by communities to sustain their water and sanitation
systems.
F2. Critical Risks
(This table reflects major assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
RH g>>)isk  ,....4 Ris        Ris Mi.i  ztIo  .esr                    . ^          .   .z.  .jjS. 
From Objective
Purpose, to Goal
Inadequate             S        Giving ownership to users by ensuring that infrastructure (particularly
infrastructure                  small scale irrigation perimeters, and rural water supply and sanitation in
maintenance                     NRIP-I, and local transport infrastructure in NRIP-II) is truly demand-
driven, i.e. they are true priorities for the beneficiaries, which will in part
be reflected by their willingness to contribute to investment costs.
Putting in place representative infrastructure management structures
(irrigators' or water users' associations) and ensuring their effectiveness
through training on maintenance needs and scheduling, and on water fee
determination and collection.
* Ensuring continued good performance of Office du Niger, and the ON-
Farmer-Government partnership within the context of performance
contracts ("Contrats-Plans").
* Ensuring the effective and satisfactory functioning of the Road Authority
through training and close monitoring
* For potable water and small scale irrigation, using suitable equipment
(water pumps, motorized or manual) whose spare parts are readily
available and creating a private network of repair service providers. [For
roads in NRIP-II, rural transport infrastructure design will have to be
appropriate, i.e. commensurate with technical and financial capacities
found at the local level].
* Ensuring adequate permanent sector monitoring and evaluation by
DNAER and DNH - their capacity building is provided for in the project.
Poor Market Prices     M      * In case of dumping from international markets, the government still
reserves the right to apply countervailing duties.
From Outputs to
Objective
Poor management        M      * ON farmers and ON management have a good tradition ofjoint
of the repayments               management of water fees and this is expected to be no different. In
from the "lease-                addition, these funds will be closely monitored by the PCU and DNAER
purchase" pilot                 and audited semi-annually.
Political              M      - These resources will be localized (initially only at ON). There is already a
interference with               track record regarding water service charge management at ON, where
the repayment of                there is minimal government interference.
these resources



41
Poor Agricultural     S        Project-funded NGOs will train farmers in agricultural
Services (input                production/diversification, input purchase and use, irrigation maintenance
supply, extension              programming and execution, water management, output marketing skills;
service)                       follow-up will be carried out by the national extension service after project
closes.
In conformity with standard practice, the project will provide initial grants
for setting up a revolving fund for input purchase for small scale
community irrigation schemes.
From
Components to
Outputs
Poor beneficiary      M        This problem is likely to arise from competing demands on farmers time.
participation in               Project implementation is being stretched to accommodate these
irrig. Rehab./Dev.             conflicting demands. Should this continue to be a problem, all the work
at ON.                         will be done by contractors, and reimbursement for corresponding costs
sought as a condition for land allocation.
Inadequate GOM        M       * Fiscal analysis demonstrates that the additional fiscal demands are
counterpart funding            manageable. However, project activities will be evenly spread over the
implementation period to accommodate GOM's budgetary constraints.
Difficulties in       M       - Up-front beneficiary contribution will be modulated according to ability to
mobilizing up-front            pay.
beneficiary                   - Based on past experience, beneficiaries' cash contribution toward
contribution to                investment will be sought before including that particular investment in the
investment costs               program.
Delays in             M       * For major contracts (e.g. Sokolo, M'Bewani, and Koumouna large scale
procurement                    irrigation perimeters), preparation of technical studies and bidding
documents were prepared during project preparation.
- Agencies managing these major contracts have procurement proficient staff
trained under previous projects.
S     * For small-scale irrigation and rural water supply, investments are demand-
driven, so technical studies cannot be done at this time. However, during
project implementation, delays will be minimized by constituting initial lots
early in the project as further demand assessment continues.
M      - For the first tranche of feeder roads (472.3 km), preparation of technical
studies and bidding documents is ongoing, financed by the ongoing
transport project.
Newly formed           S      * AGETIER to be staffed with competent, competitively recruited, personnel
AGETIER not up to              who will be trained in procurement and financial management before
the task                       project effectiveness.
* AGETIER to start with a very small work load at the beginning to allow it
time to master the required skills.
* AGETER to be monitored very closely, with procurement and financial
audits carried out every six months.
* Note that AGETIER only executes 5% of the entire project.
Overall Risk          M
Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)



42
F3. Possible Controversial Aspects
154.  There are no major possible controversial aspects in this project.
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
Gl. Board Conditions: None
G2 Credit Effectiveness Conditions
(i)   adoption of a project implementation  manual, acceptable to IDA, determining the practical
implementation modalities for the different agencies involved in the project and including a
participatory monitoring and evaluation system;
(ii)  signing of a convention between CNRA and ON conferring upon the former the responsibility of
coordinating the applied research sub-component;
(iii) signing of a convention between the Government and AGETIER defining each party's rights and
obligations, and delegating procurement and contract management responsibilities for some parts
of the project to AGETIER;
(iv)  signing of a convention between the Ministry of Health and the MDR;
(v)  setting up a satisfactory financial management system at the PCU and AGETIER, including a
detailed financial and accounting procedures manual;
(vi)  recruitment of procurement, financial management and other key staff acceptable to IDA for
AGETIER and the PCU;
(vii)  preparation of all ICB bidding documents, and of a set of AGETIER's bidding documents for the
first year's project activities; and
(viii) establishment of the Project Account to be managed by the PCU;
G3. Disbursement Conditions
i)   establishment of the Road Authority (Authority management team, and the financial resource
management mechanisms are put in place) will be a disbursement condition for the Rural
Transport Infrastructure component.



43
H: READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
155.  Procurement documents for the first year's activities are either complete or will be before Credit
Effectiveness. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality. The following is a summary of project preparedness:
(i)  the TOR for refined analysis of the proposed irrigation financing mechanism and lead applied
researcher are ready;
(ii)  the technical design documents for the irrigation schemes are ready, and the bidding documents
are available as drafts and will be ready before Credit Effectiveness;
(iii)  the draft procedures manual for small scale irrigation is ready, and capable/willing NGOs and
consulting firms for participating in the project are already identified;
(iv)  the preliminary technical studies of the three feeder roads are complete and the detailed
engineering designs will be completed in September 2000;
(v)  the framework for the Road Authority is already adopted by the Council of Ministers; other draft
legal texts are ready;
(vi)  the TOR for road classification and maintenance needs studies are ready;
(vii)  AGETIER as an association is already created, and the future Executive Director has already been
selected; its procedures manual is ready; setting up its accounting system is underway; and
(viii) the draft procedures manual for rural water supply is ready, including sample bidding documents
with technical specifications, to be ready before Credit Effectiveness.
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
156.  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Eustacius N. Betubiza (AFTR3)    Jean-Paul Chausse (AFTR3)    Hasan A. Tuluy (AFC 15)
Team Leader                     Sector Manager                Country Director



44
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MALI: National Rural Infrastructure Project
Hierarchy of objectives                          Key performance indicators25                     Monitoring & Evaluation             Critical Assumptions
S,    0c(or reate ICASol:;                                 Sector;  ;  0     Indicators  ^eto contr 07: Xrepor"t'.s;'i   ,(troiii&Goal to  a :kNMlsl06iW
Reduce rural poverty through supporting   1. % reduction in poverty incidence                           DNSI, DNH, DNTP, DNAER
competitive, broad based growth of the    2. xx% of population with access to potable water             (and when data is not
rural sector by helping to: (i) increase  3. adequate rural transport system  (from xx km of rural roads with year   available, nationwide
agricultural production through         round access per 100 km2 to xx)                                 baseline survey repeated at
expansion of irrigated areas; (ii) build  4. % increase in share of irrigated agriculture within Agriculture GDP  end of each Phase)
feeder roads; and (iii) provide safe water
supply and improved sanitation..
Pirm rptose             ,        En - o'Sfn,- Prnsnictr                                             Prga  repots                (rmPups tOIGaI
Well being of the population improved    All three sub-sectors
through adequate rural infrastructure  1. Nb. of new projects/program adopting national strategies in rural                         - Adequate infrastructure maintenance
(irrigation , transport, sanitation and  transport, irrigation and potable water / sanitation (target 100%)
potable water) sustainably developed and  2. compliance with the World Bank Safeguard Policies and with the Mali
managed                                 Environmental Laws in force
Phase 1: Institutional mechanisms and
strategies established / strengthened and
refined through infrastructure
investments in specific geographic areas
Irrigation:
Phase I: Mechanisms consolidated and    1. incremental production compared to appraisal projections (26,000 tons  Baseline survey nation wide,   - Good market prices
level of investments in infrastructure  of paddy by 2005, and of >140,000 tons by 2010)                 repeated end of each phase
expanded country wide                2. incremental income at the household level, compared to appraisal
projections                                                    Participatory rapid diagnosis
3. % increase in beneficiary households with full food security  in rural communities working
4. Nb of hectares developed or rehabilitated by the private sector, per  with the program and
type of investors                                              beneficiary assessment
5. xx % of perimeters still functioning properly (regular maintenance, high  (annual or end of phase
productivity)                                                  depending on the type of
data).
Rural transport:
25 XX Target values will be specified when baseline data is collected and analyzed in the first year.



45
1. Road routine maintenance ratio increases from 25 % to 40 % phase I    Thematic studies for in-depth   -  Sufficient level of
and 75 % phase 11, and all main roads built or rehabilitated after 2000    knowledge on specific  competition between transport service
are routinely maintained (every year) to support the service level  subsector issues        providers (no local cartel, sufficient size
projected at conception                                                                     of market)
2. range of goods available locally has increased and/ or their price has
decreased by at least xx %                                                                  - Means of transport (and their
3. transport time and cost have decreased by xx %                                                operating inputs, i.e. parts and fuel if
4. xx % of communities investing in their network following the National                         relevant) are widely available at
Rural Transport Strategy principles                                                            affordable price countrywide
5. xx nb. of communities with an appropriate local network
Potable water and sanitation:                                                                 - Positive good supplier response to
1. 300,000 inhabitants with new access to and effectively using potable                          better roads
water
2. xx % of household per beneficiary communities, adopting improved
hygiene and sanitation practices
3. 95 % of water pumps still in operation, with operational gender
balanced maintenance committees at any time after installation
4. 80% of the beneficiary communities applying appropriate pump site
sanitation
Project Development Objective       'Project Outcome I Impatct Indicators                               Project reports             From-Objective to Purpose
*Tiggers                                                          Project Uaseline report      . _._                  _     _
Redefined roles, improved capacities and  Large scale irrigation:                                       Large scale:
practices of stakeholders and effective  1. 2 90% recovery rate of due amounts from "lease-purchase"    - "Lease-Purchase" unit at    - Strict enforcement of contractual
mechanisms to plan, finance and manage                                                                    ON                           terms and conditions for "lease-
infrastructure, with specific objectives                                                                                               purchasing" and transparent land
for each sub-component.                                                                                                                allocation
- Adequate management and use of the
resources mobilized
2. 2 90% of land set aside for private sector development is either  - "Lease-Purchase" unit at    - Sufficient number of capable private
developed/under development, or there are firm commitments to do so.  ON                       investors
3. ON's performance: 2 90% amortization for equipment; 2 95%      - ON's annual reports
performance of scheduled maintenance at ON; financial statements
systematically produced and audited within 6 months following end of
fiscal year
4. other financial, production, maintenance and soil / water management
performance ratios (as defined in ON's "contrat-plan")
5. socio - environmental management performance parameters in the ON    - Env./Social unit at ON
zone (irrigation water consumption from the Niger River, ground water
quality, health, woodland depletion, livestock)
Small scale irrigation:                                           Small scale:
1. 290% water service charge and amortization recovery            - DNAER/DRARs               - Only adapted equipment selected
2. cost - efficiency of the contracting process during implementation,  consolidating data from:    - GOM continued commitment to sub-
involving AGETIER, DNAER, Communes and private sector.            Fin. Mgt. Stm; AGETIER;     sector development



46
social intermediaries;
farmers' groups,
communes
Rural transport:                                                  Rural transport:            - Investments in new roads or
1. xx % main network routinely maintained                         - quarterly and annually       rehabilitation of existing roads are
2. efficiency ratios of the Road Authority (RA) management (rate of  reports from the DNTP       kept at a level (extent and level of
disbursement, delays)                                                                          projected service) consistent with
3. local rural transport strategy approved and enacted (including social,                        Malian needs and RA resources
environmental guidelines,.
- Size of road network under RA
responsibility is commensurate with
its potential financial resources
Potable water and sanitation:
1. Nb of demand - responsive community proposals for potable water and  Potable water and     - No project substitutes for
sanitation infrastructure appraised by commune council and funded by   sanitation            communities/local gov. in providing
the project in a cost effective manner                          - Annual "Bilan - Plan",     financial resources needed for
2. 298% of water committees operational (adequate tariff systematically  quarterly reports and budget   maintenance
collected, pump site hygiene maintained)                         from the beneficiary
3. 295% of water pumps provided by the project still in operation at any  communes
given time after installation                                  - Annual and quarterly report
4. Nb communes with functioning support services and private sector  from the DNH,
provision of goods and services to support the sustenance of community   consolidating data from:
water supply and sanitation facilities                           the communes, AGETIER,
DNH decentralized services,
and the beneficiaries
~  OutPtjjd~rs-                                              .p. -e___                                 ~(fidwonto uco*e,-                                   _
1. Irrigation component
1.1 Functional cost recovery mechanisms  1.1.1 Systems and Procedures put in place by 2002              DNAER, responsible unit at    - Good management of resources
for large scale                   1.1.2 Pilot perimeter completed by end 2003                       ON                           - Limited political interference with
1.1.3 First repayments made by end 2004                                                         resource management
- Good support services (extension)
1.2 Development/rehabilitation of     1.2 9,300 ha rehabilitated / developed by 2005 (8,300 at ON, and 1000 ha  ON, DNAER           - Availability of farm inputs, particularly
irrigated land (large and small scale)  in Mopti, Gao, and Tombouctou)                                                             for small scale irrigation (chemical
and seed)
- Goof management of the revolving
funds
1.3 Knowledge base available and used    1.3 List of themes for which there is accessible, significant, and reliable    AGETIER - quarterly reports;  - Knowledge acquired actually used by
for strategic technical,              data used by managers                                         Trainers' reports              stakeholders
environmental and social planning,
policy making and monitoring
1.4 Capacities built for different types of  1.4 List of theme and nb of people trained per theme and effectively using
stakeholders involved in irrigation   their enhanced capacities
development



47
1 .5 Socio-Environmental performance of ON
2. Rural transport
2.1 Road maintenance fund established    2.1.1 Fund fully operational by Jan 2001                       DNTP / policy service or    - Availability of adequate construction
and operational                   2.1.2 xxxxxx FCFAF mobilized by 2005                              Road Observatory,            capacity at national and local level
consolidating data from:
2.2 Feeder roads rehabilitated       2.2  462.3 km of roads rehabilitated                               - DNTP/Road maintenance
fund) annual "bilan-plan"
and quarterly report
2.3 Rural transport strategy defined and    2.3.1 Law and application decrees on new classification and  - DNTP / road annual
enacted                                 redistribution of transport infrastructure enacted             "bilan - plan " and
quarterly reports
2.3.2 Law on National rural transport strategy enacted
2.4 Knowledge base available and used   2.4   List of themes for which exist accessible, significant, and reliable    - DNTP / laws and strategy
for strategic technical,                data used by managers                                          working group "bilan -
environmental and social planning,                                                                     plan " and quarterly reports
policy making and monitoring
2.5 Capacities built for different type of  2.5   List of theme and nb of people trained per theme and effectively
stakeholders involved in the rural      using their enhanced capacities
transport component
2.6   Socio-Environmental performance of DNTP
3. Rural water and sanitation
3.1 Water and sanitation infrastructure    3.1.1 Nb of water supply facilities constructed in eligible communities in  DNH / policy and statistical    - Principal of beneficiary participation
a demand-responsive manner                                  service consolidating annual"  embraced by all donors / NGOs and
3.1.2 Nb of institutions and schools provided with improved sanitation  bilan - plan" and quarterly  beneficiaries
infrastructure                                              report data from:
- DNH / water supply        - Community financial participation and
services and communes /    demand driven approach induce strong
beneficiaries             ownership to ensure sustainability
3.2 Strengthened capacities of        3.2   Nb of communes, partner organizations, artisans and contractors,    - DNH / sanitation services    - Adequate incentives for private sector
communes, private sector and NGOs       and suppliers participating in the project, trained per theme, and  and communes /         to deliver goods and services
to implement and sustain water and      operational                                                    beneficiaries
sanitation programs                                                                                                              - Communities are committed
3.3 Knowledge base available and used   3.3.1 List of themes for which exist accessible, significant, and reliable    - DNACPN
for strategic technical,                data used by lead agency and all stakeholders
environmental and social planning,                                                                  - Health ministry
policy making and monitoring      3.3.2 List of theme and nb of people trained per theme and effectively
using their enhanced capacities to support project implementation



48
and sector development
3.4   Socio-Environmental performance of AGETIER
4. AGETIER
4.1 Strengthened capacities of local  4.1.1 Nb. of local consultants and construction companies trained  AGETIER                     - becomes an effective and less
private sector to successfully bid for  4.1.2 % of contractors meeting schedules and remaining within contract                     expensive way of contracting, small
contracts (technical ability,           budgets                                                      and sample of communes        rural works
possession of necessary equipment,                                                                   beneficiaries assessment
working capital, ...)
4.2 Viable AGETIER                    4.2.1 Financial performance of AGETIER
4.2.2 Cost - efficiency of the contracting process
Components t sub components          Inputs: budget for eads eomponent / sub component                  Project reports              From Components tolouiputs
1. Irrigation
1.1 Irrigation financing mechanism                                                                      Financial / Analytical      - Sufficient interest for "Lease-Purchase"
1.2 Private Sector Irrig. Devpt Pilot                                                                   Accounting / Procurement    - Sufficient interest by private investors
Info. Mgt Stm of DNAER,     - All beneficiaries accept responsibility
ON, AGETIER                  for tertiary canal construction
- Beneficiaries able to complete tertiary
Annual audit                 canal construction on time
1.3 DNAER capacity building
1.4 Large scale irrigation ( ON capacity                                                                                            - Adequate /timely GOM counterpart
building, ON zone                                                                                                                  funding
environment/social mitigation                                                                                                    - Timely procurement
measures, irrigated infrastructures,
applied research, hydrological
studies)
1.4      Small scale irrigation
(infrastructures, environmental
mitigation measures)
2. Rural transport
2.1 Road Maintenance Fund                                                                               Project's quarterly / annual    - No political interference with RA
establishment                                                                                       reports from the financial /    management
analytical accounting /        Full transfer of collected funds to the
procurement Info. Mgt Stm,     RA as defined by law
particularly regarding DNTP
2.2 Road rehabilitation                                                                                                              - Adequate resources given to the RA
- GOM political clout sufficient to
enforce the required levy to feed the
RA
2.3 National Rural transport strategy set                                                               Annual audit                 - Limited resistance from transporters
up and capacity building                                                                                                           and the Chamnber of commerce to



49
additional charges on fuel and
vehicles
3. Potable water and sanitation
3.1 Potable water and sanitation                                                                    Project's quarterly / annual    - Adequate / timely counterpart GOM
facilities promotion and construction                                                            reports from the financial /  funding
analytical accounting /    - Commitment of the GOM toward
procurement Info. Mgt Stm,   decentralization is consistent and
particularly regarding DNH   sustained
- Local govemments / communities
perceive access as a priority for their
development and are ready to
mobilize their counterpart funding
- Communities capable and willing to
make proposals and contribute to
capital cost
- Successful decentralization of
decision - making processes
3.2 Capacity building                                                                                                           - Communities' choice of water system
commensurate with their
maintenance capacity
4. AGETIER
Project's quarterly / annual
4.1 Setting up AGETIER                                                                              reports from the financial /  - Newly formed AGETIER up to the task
analytical accounting /
procurement Info. Mgt Stm,
particularly regarding
AGETIER
Separate quarterly and later
semi-an-nually audit
4.2 Training of local enterprises                                                                                               - Existence of enough local enterprises
interested in participating in the
____ ____ ___ ____ ____ ___ program
5. Environment                                                                                      Financial / Analytical
5.1 Institutional measures                                                                          Accounting / Procurement
5.2 Legal measures                                                                                  Info. Mgt Stm of the NRIP,
5.3 Studies and analyses                                                                            consolidating data from
5.4 Env. and Social investments                                                                     DNTP, DNAER, ON,
AGETIER
6. Project management
6.1 Management and coordination at    .                                                             Financial / Analytical
national and regional levels                                                                        Accounting / Procurement
Info. Mgt Stm of the NRIP,
consolidating data from
DNTP, DNAER, ON,



50
AGETIER.
Annual audit
6.2 M&E
PMU plus all other
stakeholders



51
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MALI: National Rural Infrastructure Project
Project Component 1: Irrigation - US$ 66.6 million
Context
157.   Perhaps the most binding constraint to Mali's agricultural production is the limited amount and
unreliability of rainfall which, coupled with increasing desertification, has left an estimated 1.4 million
rural residents vulnerable to food shortages. The productive part of Mali receives 150-1200 mm of
rainfall per year, and isohyets have shifted southward by 110 km over the past 30 years. Mali has had
two major droughts in the last 20 years, 1983-84 and 1987-88. This has prompted the Malian
government to place greater emphasis on irrigated agriculture. Potentially irrigable land is estimated at
2.2 million ha, of which an estimated 243,000 ha are developed, principally for rice production (which is
competitive on the domestic market, as well as in some border areas of the neighboring countries). The
domestic demand for rice in Mali could outpace domestic supply by 200,000 - 360,000 tons in the next
10 years, depending upon how fast real per capita income and population grow over the period, which
corresponds to an additional 90,000 - 140,000 ha of irrigated land. Although the demand for other
products, particularly horticultural products, is less known, there seems to be a great potential for maize,
potatoes, and onions. See project files for detailed analysis of domestic and regional competitivity.
However, irrigation development is constrained by several factors including lack of long-term financing
for irrigation development, the high cost of irrigation development, poor irrigation infrastructure
maintenance, limited access to markets and agricultural services (particularly on small scale community
irrigation schemes), limited sector planning and monitoring capacity, and concerns for possible
environmental degradation.
158.   GOM's recently adopted strategy calls for leveraging its limited resources through strategic
partnerships with farmers and the private sector: (i) by transferring all responsibility for tertiary
infrastructure development to beneficiaries (resulting in 15-20% savings to government),26 (ii) by
granting land rights to beneficiaries who reimburse the cost of secondary infrastructure development (the
so-called "Lease-Purchase" arrangement), (iii) by ensuring that beneficiaries are fully responsible for all
operation and maintenance charges, and (iv) through greater private sector involvement in irrigation
development. In all cases, GOM will continue to be financially responsible for all primary irrigation
infrastructure development (dams, principal canals).  GOM  also intends to:   reduce irrigation
development costs by promoting local enterprises through an autonomous rural public works agency;
promote irrigation infrastructure maintenance through a demand driven approach, farmer training, use of
technical norms and adapted equipment, involvement of local institutions, i.e. NGOs, developing small,
more manageable perimeters for local communities. GOM is also putting together a program (PASAOP)
for improving agricultural services and better sector planning and monitoring. GOM has also adopted
and Environmental Action Plan for better protection of Mali's natural endowments.
26 Farmers have the option of doing the work physically or making a cash payment. In the context of the recently closed Office du Niger
project, a test was carried out which demonstrated that farmers could physically construct tertiary canals, a move that would save government
some 15-20% of the irrigation development cost, thus releasing resources for redeployment in further irrigation development.



52
Objective of the Component
159.   NRIP-I will support GOM's ambitions by: (a) piloting the new capital cost recovery mechanisms
aimed at accelerated irrigation development; piloting the promotion of private irrigation investments on
large scale schemes like ON; (b) supporting improved irrigation infrastructure management through
beneficiary training; (c) promoting irrigation development cost reduction by strengthening local private
sector/NGO capacity through AGETIER, carrying out studies and tests on cheaper irrigation equipment,
and applying technical norms on small scale irrigation schemes; (d) rehabilitating a degraded irrigation
perimeter,  completing   one   perimeter  partially   developed   under  a   previous   project,
rehabilitating/development small scale perimeters in poor areas, and (e) strengthening environmental
monitoring through training and capacity building of regional directorates DNACPN and ON staff.
Investment Activities
A)     Large Scale Irrigation Development at Office du Niger (US$ 56.8 million)
160.   "Lease-Purchase" Irrigation Financing Mechanism  (US$ 5.1 million).  The long-term
objective is to have an autonomous, self-financing, privately managed irrigation development agency,
responsible for irrigated land development and collection of repayments from beneficiaries for further use
in irrigation development. Preliminary studies at ON have shown that farmers can afford to pay up to
100,000 CFAFlha (including water fees), which would leave them with a reasonable return to labor of
2,000 - 3,000 CFAF/day, deemed sufficient to keep farmers motivated in irrigated agriculture. At current
water service charges of about 60,000 CFAF/ha for rehabilitated land, this translates into a possible
capital contribution of 40,000 CFAF/ha.27 When discounted at 8% per year over a 20 year investment
horizon, this corresponds to a net present value of 393,000 CFAF/ha or 50% of the cost per hectare of
secondary infrastructure development.28 This pilot will carried out in the ON zone, which is motivated
by the need to keep the establishment process simple, allowing time to conduct refine these mechanisms
before extending them to other schemes countrywide during Phase II of the program.
(a) Institutional Set-Up (US$0.3 million). First, NRIP-I will finance studies and workshops to define the
detailed contours of such an agency, including its capital and managerial structure, its contractual
arrangements with beneficiaries, and procedures for the recovery and use of beneficiaries'
repayments (this study to be carried during the first year of the project). It is evident that managing
such a limited test does not warrant the creation of a full fledged agency at this time. Consequently,
only a small unit will be set up within ON to manage this test. A full fledged agency will only be
considered for NRIP-II if this approach becomes promising at the end of NRIP-I. Terms of Reference
acceptable to IDA for refining these modalities were finalized at negotiations.
(b) Test Perimeter US$ 4.8 million). The development of a 390 ha test irrigation perimeter on which
these arrangements will be tested (this irrigation perimeter's development to be completed in the
middle of the third year of the project). It is expected that the first repayment installments will be
made during the fourth year, and the second installment during the fifth year of the project. The
project will finance studies, workshops, and the operating costs of the unit.
27 Under the current contrat-plan (January 1999 - December 2001), the water fee will gradually increase from 57,000 FCFA/ha to 62,000
FCFA/ha for rehabilitated land and from 46,000 FCFAIha to 53,000 FCFA/ha over a three year period.
28 The 8% discount rate is based on Mali's low inflation environment.



53
161.   Private Sector Development Pilot (US$ 4.0 million). A pilot will be carried out on only 444 ha
in order to test the private sector's capacity to invest in irrigation development. IDA will only finance the
construction of the primary infrastructure, with all secondary and tertiary infrastructure, and land leveling
to be completed by private investors themselves (at a cost of US$ 2.1 million). Criteria for applicant
selection, as well as the terms and conditions of settlement on, and use of, this land have been drafted and
approved at negotiations. The activities to be financed include: (i) branch-off points for secondary
canals; and (ii) the main drain. If the test experience is positive (the 444 ha are developed, terms and
conditions for settlement are abided by, and real demand for irrigated land developed under this approach
is demonstrated by potential private investors), then the primary infrastructure will be extended under
NRIP-II to cover the remaining 976 ha for use by "commercial" farmers. However, should the test
experience be negative, the land remaining undeveloped on the 444 ha will be fully developed under
NRIP-II, together with the 976 ha, and distributed to small farmers under the "lease purchase" option.
162.   Other Rehabilitation/Development (US$ 43.7 million).  The following perimeters will be
rehabilitated/ developed under regular ON terms and conditions.  In both cases farmers will be
responsible for tertiary infrastructure.
(a) Sokolo (US$ 29.6 million). Situated at 150 km north of Segou, the Sokolo perimeter, which was
developed in 1960, currently supports some 1,582 households, or about 18,000 people. Due to
decades of neglect, the irrigation network is severely degraded, with some drains almost totally
absent. With the start of ON's reforms in 1984, Sokolo's yields have rebounded from 1.6 t/ha in
1984 to the current average of 4.5 t/ha.. Despite this relatively high productivity, rehabilitating
the Sokolo perimeter is urgent for: (i) reducing water consumption from 30,000 m3/ha to 17,000
m3/ha which will help to slow down the rising of the water table, facilitate soil management,
lessen the damage to the irrigation network, and permit more water downstream for other users;
(ii) facilitating better water control in the field for better weed control and fertilizer application,
resulting in higher yields; and (iii) promoting higher land productivity which will permit reduced
land allocation per household to an average of 3 ha, which is the norm at ON, permitting the
settlement of an additional 275 farmers on the surplus land.
The rehabilitation activities to be carried out by private contractors will consist of: (i) the main
canals of Sokolo, Banivi, and Singo, for a total length of 25.2 km; (ii) the secondary canals for a
total length of 59.6 km, of which 6.0 km will be new; (iii) the main drain of Sokolo for a length
of 13.5 km; (iv) secondary drains for a length of 75.3 km, of which 3.0 km will be new; (v) all
the infrastructure located along these canals and drains; (vi) the rehabilitation of a 16 km murram
road, of which 6 km will be new, including cross-over points along the canals and drains29; (vii)
the leveling by motorized equipment of about 25% of the existing perimeter where the surface is
very uneven, and of the entire irrigated surface that was added by farmers in an ad hoc manner
(for a total of 2,457 ha), and (viii) land leveling for creating vegetable gardens for women (600
ha).
Farmer participation in the rehabilitation will account for approximately 16% of total costs
through: (i) the rehabilitation of tertiary canals for a total length of 218 km, of which 25 km will
be new; (ii) the rehabilitation of corresponding drains for a total of 216 km, of which 20 km will
be new; (iii) land leveling and dike reinforcement. The farmers' share of the work will, in whole
or in part, be carried out directly by themselves, for which they will be provided with some
29 As stated above, this road as well as the M'Bewani road, will have its final status reviewed at the end of phase I along the line defined in the
new National Rural Transport Strategy.



54
equipment. Besides the supervision of works carried out by the contractors, the consulting
engineer will also supervise the work carried out the farmers. Farmers have a choice of making a
monetary equivalent of about 133,000 FCFA/ha for tertiary canals and 42,000 FCFA/ha for
tertiary drains.
(b) M'Bewani (US$ 6.8 million). The project will finance the: (i) the extension of the main canal for
a length of 3.5 kilometers; (ii) 4 new branch-off sites on the main canal for secondary canals as
well as the installation of water regulation/measurement equipment on two existing structures;
(iii) enlargement of the main drain for 10.5 km; (iv) the construction of a laterite road along the
main canal.30 The Dutch government will finance the secondary canals for the M'Bewani
perimeter, in addition to providing some small equipment to farmers, which will permit them to
construct the tertiary canals and dike embankments, as well as carry out land leveling, for a total
land surface area of 1,300 ha. The rate of progress by the farmers (some 400 ha/year) is
compatible with the plans to construct the main canal in 2001-2002
(c) Costes-Ongoiba canal (US$ 7.3 million). NRIP-I will also finance the enlargement and
deepening of the Costes-Ongoiba canal (19 km) which serves the existing sugar plantations at
Dougabougou (2,200 ha) and Siribala (3,000 ha), the M'Bewani irrigated perimeter and its
planned extensions (11,700 ha), as well as the future Koumouna perimeter (3,000 ha: 1,000 ha
under development by the private investor COVEC, and 2,000 ha to be developed as discussed in
the next paragraph), for a total of about 20,000 ha in the medium term.
163.  Capacity Building for ON (US$ 0.7 million). In the past, the World Bank and other donors have
financed training and equipment for strengthening ON's financial management and accounting capacity.
Although there have been noticeable progress in both aspects, needs still remain, particularly with regard
to timely production of financial information and the use of key financial indicators as management tools.
There is also need to strengthen ON's overall technical competence. The project will finance: (i) the
strengthening ON's monitoring and evaluation system by setting up of a local area network to facilitate
production and use of key financial and production data-purchase of equipment and software, technical
assistance for system set-up and staff training regarding use and maintenance of the system; (ii) the
setting up of an analytical accounting system; (iii) the updating of internal audit procedures in light of
ON's recent restructuring, and training of internal audit staff; (iv) staff training to improve overall
competence in irrigation management through short courses and visits, particularly to similar irrigation
schemes in neighboring countries; (v) the rehabilitation of the premises and computerizing the database
of the documentation center; (vi) technical assistance to elaborate an amortization policy and facilitate
the integration of ON's amortization needs into its water service charges, (vii) training and capacity
building for joint zonal irrigation infrastructure management committees ("comites paritaires") for more
effective maintenance programming and execution, and (viii) training farmers in maintenance needs
assessment and in tertiary infrastructure maintenance techniques.
164.  Studies (US$ 1.8 million). One of the constraints to accelerated irrigation development is the
time it takes to prepare the requisite technical studies. This process could be shorted by constituting a
reasonable bank of studies, which past experience has shown to facilitate rapid mobilization of funds
from the donor community. Consequently, the project will finance preliminary and detailed engineering
studies for a 4,000 ha site (Block D) at M'Bewani (another 2,000 ha, in addition to the on-going World
Bank financed study of 2,000 ha), and for about 3,000 ha at Sosse-Siribala. The project will also finance
studies on: (a) maintenance of the main infrastructure (Markala damn, major canals); (b) ways of reducing
30 Cf. note 29.



55
investment costs by way of manufacturing certain equipment (modules, slice gates) locally; and (c) a rice
marketing strategy.
165.  Applied Research (US$ 1.5 million). For some small and medium traditional farmers who have
reached a technological ceiling (traditional ox and plow) and could, therefore, enhance the productivity of
their labor through simple hand held motorized equipment, on-farm tests will be carried out on the
adaptability and profitability of different small motorized farm equipment. The project will finance the
purchase of this equipment, with test farmers responsible for the operating costs of the equipment. The
methods of selecting the beneficiaries will be proposed by the research institution chosen competitively to
carry this research.
166.  For large commercial farmers, there is a need for putting together a technical and economic
reference manual of: (a) cultural practices most suitable for large scale motorized farming for the
production of rice, onions, potatoes, maize, fodder, fruit trees and other crops; (b) different alternative
irrigation methods (basin irrigation, ridge irrigation or drip irrigation for fruit trees) for use by large scale
farmers, and (c) farm equipment most suitable for large scale irrigated farming under local economic and
agronomic conditions. The required equipment will be financed by private investors themselves with the
project providing technical assistance for choice of equipment and monitoring their performance.
167.  The applied research sub-component will be executed by the Comite National pour la R?echerche
Agronomique (CNRA). CNRA will contract this research to an internationally renowned research
institute with experience in mechanized irrigated farming: ON will sign a convention with CNRA, and all
payments will be liquidated through the special account managed by ON. The draft convention was
approved during negotiations.
168.  Maintenance mechanisms. Maintenance of the infrastructure at ON is a shared responsibility
between the government (primary infrastructure) and the farmers (secondary and tertiary infrastructure).
Since only about one half of the land potentially irrigable by the existing primary infrastructure (the dam
and the major canals) is actually under production (some 60,000 ha), almost all maintenance costs
corresponding to primary infrastructure were in the past entirely born by the State. The newcontrat-plan
(1999-2001) provides for a progressive transfer of this responsibility to farmers in step with increases in
the land area brought under production, farm yields and farm revenue. Starting with the 2002-2004
contrat-plan (January 2002 - December 2004) all responsibility for primary infrastructure maintenance
will be transferred in its entirety to farmers.
169.  Farmers pay a water fee which is sufficient to cover maintenance costs for the secondary canal
and drain network, in addition to supporting ON's operating costs. Under the current contrat-plan
(January 1999 - December 2001), the water fee will gradually increase from 57,000 FCFA/ha to 62,000
FCFA/ha for rehabilitated land and from 46,000 FCFA/ha to 53,000 FCFA/ha over a three year period.
The water fee recovery rate stands at an average of 97%. Farmers are responsible for the (manual)
maintenance of tertiary canals. Although the farmers' performance in the maintenance of tertiary
infrastructure has been steadily rising over the past 10 years, there is still room for improvement as some
farmers have not fully grasped the concept of preventive maintenance. The project will therefore support
farmer training in the assessment of their maintenance needs and in the techniques of canal maintenance.
Under the project, the possibility of transferring tertiary canal maintenance to contractors, the cost of
which would be reflected in the water service charge, will be assessed and introduced into the 2002-2004
contrat-plan if judged necessary.



56
B)    Small Scale Irrigation (US$ 9.8 million)
170.   Capacity Building (US$ 2.7 million). The project will finance: (i) staff training for the National
Directorate of Rural Works and Equipment (DNAER) on cheaper alternative irrigation methods and
equipment through short-term overseas courses and study tours to neighboring countries; (ii) training of
grassroots intermediaries and local consulting firms in the participatory conception of irrigation projects
and on environmental awareness through seminars and short-term  courses;  (iii) equipment and
procurement training for the unit within DNAER that will be in charge of executing this sub-component.
171.  Land Development (US$ 5.0 million). The project will finance new or the rehabilitation of about
1,000 ha of small scale irrigation perimeters in three regions that are among the poorest in the country,
namely Mopti, Tombouctou, and Gao. The project will finance perimeters that are close to the Niger
River or its tributaries where water is assured all year long. Past experience has shown that for this type
of pump irrigated perimeters to be manageable by the beneficiaries, perimeter size should be limited to 20
- 30 ha. Thus only perimeters not exceeding this size will be financed.
172.  In keeping with the government strategy, the process of identifying the perimeters to be
rehabilitated will be demand-driven. This process will start with information dissemination about the
project. by the regional project unit, whereupon interested communities request for project assistance in
developing their perimeter. Project financed NGOs will assist them in formulating their request on a
standardized questionnaire. Beneficiaries' requests will be vetted by the communes and "cercles" or
districts for their conformity to the local area development plan and forwarded to the regional project unit
where they will be assessed against a set of social, financial and economic criteria that will include,
among other things: social cohesion, total absence of conflicting claims over the land to be developed,
existence of or potential for effective management structures, willingness to participate physically in the
perimeter's development (tertiary infrastructure and land leveling), preliminary cost of investment and
support services cost estimate not exceeding 4 million FCFA/ha, and a preliminary economic rate of
return of not less than 12%. More detailed technical studies will only be carried out on perimeters that
pre-quality. Once the perimeters' technical and economic feasibility is established, qualifying perimeters
will be presented to the regional assembly for consideration and inclusion in the regional development
program for the year.
173.  Technical studies and civil works will be tendered locally following procedures that will involve
the beneficiaries to the maximum possible. The Rural Works Execution Agency (AGETIER) will be
delegated the procurement process, from technical studies to the completion of civil works, a task for
which it will be remunerated based on a percentage applied to the volume of work handled. This
percentage will be determined annually by the Project Coordination Unit and is expected to decline over
time as AGETIER's work load increases. The NGOs responsible for pre-investment support to farmers
will also offer post-investment support services regarding crop intensification and diversification, water
fee collection and management (revolving fund resources, fuel and amortization charges), maintenance
scheduling and execution, input purchase and output marketing, etc. Offering these services will
continue throughout project implementation, slowly turning over this responsibility to the regular
extension service and to the local staff of the regional directorate for rural works and equipment
(DRAER), completing this transfer at project's end.
174.   The project will finance:  (i) sub-project identification, (ii) technical studies, including
topological and pedological/agronomic studies, (iii) civil works and their supervision (primary and
secondary canals and a corresponding drainage system), (iv) a diesel motor pump, and (v) a warehouse



57
for storing equipment, fertilizer, seed, etc.. In order to reduce investment costs, the project will only
consider perimeters for which a protective dike is not necessary, either because they are located outside a
flood plain (except in exceptional cases), or because a protective dike already exists. Beneficiaries will
participate in the construction of primary and secondary canals, in addition to being entirely responsible
for constructing all the tertiary canals and corresponding drains by hand, as well as leveling their land
parcels, and constructing small dikes around their parcels. Their contribution is valued at 30 percent of
the total investment cost.
175.   Underground Water Resource Utilization Pilot at Kidal (US$ 1.2 million). The project will also
finance pilot activities (technical studies, civil works, and pumping equipment) to test the feasibility of
irrigated agriculture using underground water sources in the region of Kidal.
176.  Agricultural Intensification (US$ 0.5 million). Due to the absence of credit institutions in the
project area for offering input purchase loans to farners, the project will offer one-time grants to
beneficiaries to be managed by their associations in form of revolving funds, with technical support (book
keeping, input purchase orders, including quality control, input use at the field level, etc..) provided by
project-funded intermediaries (consulting firms, NGOs). Output prices are normally at their lowest
immediately following crop harvest. However, this is also the time to start purchasing inputs for the
following crop season. In order not to precipitate sales when prices are at their lowest as farmers
scramble to reimburse the previous season's credit before obtaining the next season's credit, farmers'
organizations will be given input purchase funds for two successive crop seasons, which will permit an
orderly marketing of the first year's harvest when prices are most favorable, particularly during the "lean
period", i.e. just before the next season's harvest. Although these funds will be passed on to the farmers'
organization in charge of each perimeter as a grant, these associations will pass on these funds to their
members as loans. The associations will charge an interest rate of 8% on these funds in order to preserve
their real value over time (sufficient to cover the rate of inflation, transaction costs, and the default risk).
These farmers' organizations will receive support from the intermnediaries of their choice referred to
above, regarding the use and monitoring of these funds, input purchase arrangements, stock management,
etc.
177.  Studies (US$ 0.4 million). The project will finance tests, on ways of reducing investment costs
by way of importing less costly equipment, mainly from developing countries (pumps, irrigation
materials). The tests will be carried out by a local NGO. In addition, the project will finance studies on
small-scale irrigation development in the North of Mali, especially in the region of Kidal. The project
will also finance detailed engineering studies so that NRIP Phase II begins without delay.
178.  Maintenance Mechanisms. The project will finance the strengthening of farmers' associations
regarding the assessment of maintenance needs, maintenance programming, water tariff setting (for both
canal and equipment maintenance and pump amortization), water tariff collection and management, and
water management.  Where adequate farmer training and close follow-up have been provided,
particularly when offered through specialized NGOs, canal/drain maintenance on small scale irrigation
schemes, which is all manual, has been timely and adequate. The major challenge of these schemes is the
replacement of pumping equipment (requiring an annual amortization equivalent to 8% of paddy
production per household), on top of operation and maintenance needs. Since family holdings are small
(0.25 ha auto-consumption is a relatively high proportion of production (up to 1/3), thus reducing net
farm income. However, paddy yields of 5.0 tons/ha, as currently the case on schemes with adequate
support services (credit, input supply) and farmer training, are sufficient to guarantee long-term
sustainability.  In addition to strengthening irrigators' associations regarding the assessment of
maintenance needs, maintenance programming, and water/crop management, the project will provide



58
initial grants for input purchase, to be managed by these associations (with support from NGOs) and on-
lent to their members on a revolving basis, thus ensuring sustained productivity.
Project Component No. 2: Rural Transport Infrastructure ($26.0 million)
A)     Capacity Building/Institutional Development (US$ 3.3 million)
179.   RoadAuthority (US$ 0.3 million). In order to increase substantially the level of sustainability of
the road network in Mali, an autonomously managed Road Authority will be set up to mobilize and
manage the utilization of resources for routine maintenance of the main network (both primary and feeder
roads) with a formula to ensure that feeder roads get a fair share of the fund's resources. A study is
planned for assessing annual maintenance needs for the main road network, based upon which the
corresponding financial resources will be determined. This will facilitate the determination of the level of
the fuel surcharge and a road user fee to levy. The road maintenance fund will set priorities within a
partnership framework between the Road Authority, the regional road directorates and the communities.
At the local level, it is expected that the strategy will transfer the bulk of the routine and periodic
maintenance to local governments and communities. Most legal tests for creating the Authority have
been drafted, and await adoption by the National Assembly. The project will finance the Authority's
start-up costs (furniture and equipment, financial management system, monitoring and evaluation system)
and training of key personnel, particularly in financial management.
180.   National Rural Transport Strategy (USS 3.0 million). NRIP-I will also support the elaboration
of a comprehensive national rural transport strategy encompassing all aspects of rural transport in Mali,
including different transport "means" and transport "services", including inland water transportation. In
order to incorporate useful field information in the strategy, pilot projects will be conducted to test a few
options of institutional arrangements for an approximate total of 200 km. The implementation manual of
the pilot projects as well as criteria for their selection will be established during the elaboration of the
rural transport strategy.
181.   These two institutional development activities are seen as critical in the overall transport
framework of Mali. As a consequence, their successful adoption by the GOM are triggers for NRIP
regarding this component.
B)     Road Rehabilitation (US$ 22.7 million)
182.   NRIP-I will finance the rehabilitation of 472.3 km of feeder roads: (Niono-Banamba: 210 km;
Nara-Niono: 202.3 km; Djenne-Mougna-Say: 60 km) and their technical studies are on-going. During
NRIP-II, the project will support investments in local rural transport infrastructure along the principles
adopted in the national rural transport strategy. Since such investments will be demand-driven and with a
significant participation from communities (expected to be both financial and in kind), it will be
impossible to determine at the beginning the number as well as the individual cost of such rural transport
infrastructure. Therefore, the objectives will be set not in terms of kilometers or structures built but in
terms of population having gained access to an adequate transport network.31 An overall budget will be
set for such investments in Phase II as well as co-financing procedures that will describe the relationship
between communities, local governments and the GOM. In order to test adequately the new National
31 "Adequate" means here relative to users' actual needs and capacities. The Phase 11 execution manual will have to set clearly the exact
definition of such a term following the knowledge gained during the National Rural Transport Strategy elaboration.



59
Rural Transport Strategy, those procedures will be designed in a way that limits the project constraints
and reflects as much as possible the functioning of the strategy in the absence of any project.
Project Component No. 3: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (US$ 25.5 million)
Objectives
183.  The main purpose of the water and sanitation component is a full-scale demonstration of the new
sector strategy whose objectives are: (a) to maximize the impact and sustained use of safe water supply
and sanitation facilities in rural areas; and (b) to ensure that the future development of the sector will be
responsive to the requirements and choices of rural population. (c) to increase participation of the local
private sector in the provision of goods and services. (d) to increase cost-recovery through community
contribution to investment cost and full responsibility for operation and maintenance of water and
sanitation facilities. The adoption of a decentralized approach to sector investment and management
would empower communities and local government to take decisions regarding water supply and
sanitation and thus ensure that investments are demand-driven, efficient and sustainable. The component
will be implemented under two main sub-components namely the Water Supply and Sanitation
Subprojects, and Sector Support and Capacity Building.
Water Supply and Sanitation Subprojects Sub-component
184.  The Subprojects sub-component would finance the construction of water supply and sanitation
facilities proposed by communities and selected and programmed by the Communes, as well as provide
complementary community education activities to enable communities implement, operate and maintain
their facilities in a sustainable manner. The sub-project sub-component would respond to community
demand with an upfront financial contribution toward the initial cost of the sub-project of at least 5%
from the village community and 10% from the commune. The eligibility criteria for subprojects and the
procedures are detailed in the project Operational Manual . The subproject sub component would finance
the following works:
(a) Communal boreholes equipped with human-powered pumps;
(b) Solar-powered boreholes with limited distribution to communal stand pipes and an overhead
tank;
(c) Rehabilitation of existing communal traditional wells through deepening, lining, provision of well
head and cover;
(d) Replacement and/or rehabilitation of obsolete broken down hand-pumps on existing communal
boreholes with VLOM pumps; and
(e) Institutional latrines for schools and health centers.
185.  Communities and institutions benefiting from these works would receive training and technical
assistance in the formulation of subprojects that expresses the preferred community choice of technology,
service levels and management mode as well as training in the operation and maintenance of the water
supply or sanitation system.
Subproject Eligibility
186.  Project Area The project will initially be implemented in the four Regions ofKayes, Sikasso,
Koulikoro and Segou, which are considered priority Regions because of their pressing potable water



60
needs while providing ideal conditions for refining the demand-responsive implementation procedures for
subsequent larger scale national investment.
187.  Selection of Communes. All communes in the project Regions are eligible to benefit from the
project. However, in order to get subprojects financed under the project the Communes have to: (a)
prepare a water and sanitation plan for the Commune, (b) appoint personnel to manage the
implementation of the water supply and sanitation subprojects in the Commune and (c) submit acceptable
subproject proposals.
188.  Pre-selection of Communities.  Following the initial component promotional activities,
communities that express interest in the project would be pre-selected by the Council of the Commune
using criteria that include situation of existing water and sanitation facilities, poverty, Commune priorities
and the willingness of the community to contribute 5% of the costs and assume responsibility for all
operation and maintenance of the facilities demanded.
189.  Subproject Appraisal Criteria. The appraisal and evaluation of community subprojects prepared
with the aid of partner organizations will be undertaken with the assistance of the DRHE, assisted by
DNACPN. The final approval of funding will be done by the Project based upon communes meeting
selection criteria, including submission of acceptable subproject proposals The selection criteria are
mainly technical and include checklists for minimum level of service, technical feasibility,
environmental, social, financial and institutional criteria..
190.  Financial rules. The cost of investment for water supply and institutional latrines will be
financed through a 5% contribution by the beneficiary communities or institution (for the minimum level
of service) and 10% by the Commune and 85% by the Project. Communities who demand higher levels
of service would be required to pay more. The community contribution shall be paid before subproject
appraisal for point sources and before detailed design for solar-powered systems. Communities would be
responsible for operation and maintenance costs of their system. Social intermediation, education,
technical assistance and training for communities and institutions will be financed in full by the project.
191.  Engineering design criteria. The details for engineering design are contained in the "Technical
Guide" accompanying the Project Operational Manual. Point sources of water such as boreholes fitted
with human-powered pumps or stand pipes from solar-powered boreholes shall serve a minimum of 400
persons per point with a specific water consumption of 20 liters, per capita per day projected over a 10
year design horizon.
192.  Community Participation. Communities shall be involved in all stages of the project cycle. All
subprojects shall include community education and training to enable communities make informed
choices and take decisions regarding their anticipated subproject. These decisions include service levels,
management mode, sanitation promotion activities and operation and maintenance arrangements for long-
term sustainability of their water system.
193.  Hygiene Education and Sanitation. This activity seeks to contribute to improvements in the
health of rural populations and in overall sanitation through better management and delivery of sanitation
services to be achieved by way of extensive marketing and promotional campaigns. Specifically, this
component will: (a) train masons (and small enterprises) for promoting and constructing on-site sanitation
systems for households, communities schools and health centers; (b) finance improvements in the
sanitation conditions and hygiene practices in schools and health centers; and (c) promote improved
sanitation and hygiene practices of rural households and communities through participatory techniques,



61
integrating appropriate messages and activities in the community mobilization process for the water
supply program.
194.  Sanitation and Hygiene Education activities comprise: (i) development and dissemination of
marketing and promotion tools, to be achieved with assistance of a marketing specialist who will identify
appropriate media and advise on preparation of appropriate tools to popularize sanitation (findings from
focus groups and community women, men and children will be used to determine current practices and
motivations for improved sanitation and hygiene); (ii) development of appropriate training materials for
private masons and training them to construct and market a range of latrines; (iii) systematic construction
of latrines in schools and health centers which have a demand for such facilities and are willing to
contribute financially towards construction and to be responsible for O&M. Linked to this construction
program will be the development, dissemination and use of training materials on hygiene education and
on the proper management of these latrines. Messages about improved sanitation and hygiene will be
integrated into the mobilization and training activities for delivery of improved water supply facilities to
the project communities.
195.  Implementation Support Documents. Documents have been prepared and annexed to the
Project Operational Manual to facilitate subproject preparation, evaluation and control.
Sector Support and Capacity Building Sub-Component
196.  Sector Support and Capacity Building. This sub-component would finance project orientation
sessions at the Regional and Commune levels, provide training for public sector professionals, local
government actors and private sector providers of goods and services. The subcomponent would be
implemented by the DNH, with DNACPN assistance in a participatory manner involving all the
stakeholders. Specific training shall be provided on demand and only after a needs assessment. A list of
potential areas for skills training for each of the stakeholders will be prepared by a consulting firm
specializing in training and human resource development. Capacity building activities will comprise (a)
support to local government agencies including Communes; (b) support to private sector/NGO providers
of goods and services (civil and drilling contractors, geophysical and hydrogeological consultants, dug-
well contractors, latrine artisans, spare parts suppliers, pump mechanics and providers of community
training services); and (c) support to public sector agencies in gender sensitive and participatory
approaches and to re-orient them to play their new roles as coordinators and facilitators of sector
development.
Project Management
197.  The  conceptualizing, promoting, facilitating, coordinating, planning, monitoring  the
implementation of the water supply and sanitation component would be the responsibility of National
Directorate of Water (DNH) and its Regional Directorates (DRHE) in close cooperation with DNACPN.
IDA would finance equipment and incremental operating costs on a declining basis for the smooth
management of the component at the national level as well as the Regional levels.. International
Technical Assistance will be provided to facilitate project implementation on technical aspects while one
national consultant will be recruited to support community development activities. The consultant will
assist the project in (a) preparing technical specifications for bidding documents, including design
criteria; (b) preparing guidelines for contract management and supervision; (c) monitoring the
performance of local contractors; and (d) providing assistance to local consultants and NGOs. The
national advisor would assist DNHE in: (a) designing the information campaign; (b) identifying private
actors and NGOs and setting up cooperation arrangements between them and the Communes and



62
communities; and (c) monitoring the implementation of the mobilization process by NGOs and
organizing periodic evaluations.
198.  Organization and Management. The DNH would be the implementing agency of the rural water
and sanitation component. A Water and Sanitation Component Coordinator would be selected from the
DNH to lead a small team that will include an assistant coordinator, two technical assistants (one
technical person and one community development person) and support staff. The central unit would be
responsible for overall project coordination, establishment of guidelines and standards and management
of all contracts, accounting and financial management of the component, and would provide assistance to
the DRHE offices. The National Department of Sanitation and Pollution and Nuisance Control
(DNACPN) will participate in the implementation of hygiene education and sanitation activities by
seconding a sanitation specialist to the national coordination team in Bamako. The Regional Directorate
of DNACPN will provide support to the Regional project units in the supervision of the hygiene and
sanitation modules to be developed by private sector specialized agencies. The DNACPN will participate
in the testing of latrines in schools and health centers and supervise information campaigns and training
related to hygiene and sanitation and be responsible for initiating legislation relating to sanitation. The
DRHE would manage the project at the Regional level with the assistance of a local consultant recruited
by the project to ensure closer and full time management of the component activities at the Regional
level. Regional project teams comprising one or two engineers, one community development specialist
would assist the Regional Director at the DRHE to coordinate and supervise the local private consultants,
NGO firms, assist Communes to select eligible communities, prepare project documents, assist
Communes program and delegate construction contracts as well as technical supervision of works to local
consulting engineers. The Government Representatives at the Cercles and the Regional Assemblies will
be informed of the progress of the project through various reporting formats and regular consultation
meetings so that they can update their Cercle and Regional development plans accordingly.
Sub-Project Cycle
199.  The water supply and sanitation subproject implementation cycle has been designed to empower
communities to identify, plan, select, implement and manage their facilities with the support of their local
government as well as the private and public sector stakeholders. This phase of the project shall build the
capacity of communities and local government to implement the whole project cycle, including
procurement of goods and services, so that they can implement their own subprojects in subsequent
phases. The stages are summarized below.
200.  Promotion and Information Dissemination. The project will organize information sessions at the
Regional level and at the Commune levels as a first stage and after pre-selection of Communes for
intervention, the Commune Councils will organize promotional activities at the communities using local
media and promotional flyers with assistance from the project personnel. Water and Sanitation Subproject
application forms shall also be distributed at this stage.
201.  Identification. Communities (and educational and health institutions) would meet in their areas to
discuss the project information so as to identify their demands for improved water supply and sanitation
services with some assistance from potential community development workers in the locality and from
their elected representatives. The communities will fill the application form indicating their particular
interest in the project and submit these to their Communes.
202.  Pre-selection. The Commune Council would do a pre-selection of eligible applications based on
transparent criteria on population, situation of existing water supply, health issues, time since last formal



63
application for assistance, willingness to contribute to initial cost of improved water and sanitation
facilities and complete responsibility for all O&M, as well as take into consideration other development
projects. The results of the pre-selection will be made known to all communities.
203.  Formulation of Subproject Proposals.  Pre-selected communities will  prepare subproject
proposals with TA from Partner Organizations (PO) recruited to undertake community education and
training services. The communities preferences for various technical options and service levels as well as
management modes would be expressed in the proposals and this shall be backed by evidence of
community contributions to initial investment costs.
204.  Appraisal and Validation of Subprojects. Appraisal of subproject proposals will be undertaken
by the Communes with TA from the Project using clear and transparent criteria that include technical,
social and environmental feasibility, arrangements for proper environmental sanitation activities
including the water points, 5% capital cost contribution deposited in a bank account, adequate
management and operations arrangements and creation of a gender balanced water committee.
205.  Execution. Packaging and execution of consulting services and civil works is undertaken through
formal delegation of services by the Communes to the AGETIER for dug-well, the DRHE for boreholes
and trained artisans for latrines. Consulting services will be undertaken by private consulting firms or
NGOs and construction of facilities will be undertaken by private sector companies. In subsequent
phases, when the capacity of the Communes for project implementation has been adequately
strengthened, the decision to delegate or to contract out subprojects directly will lie with the Communes
and the communities themselves.
206.  Operation and Maintenance. Management of operation and maintenance of completed sub-
projects will be the sole responsibility of the community with day-to-day management provided by their
water and sanitation committees (WSC). The WSC would monitor the use of the water points, collect
tariffs, keep accounts, and undertake routine and preventative maintenance either on their own or out-
sourced to the private sector. For point sources of water members of the WSC (normally women) would
be trained to perform routine maintenance and minor repairs while area mechanics would be trained to
make installations; relatively more difficult repairs will be made by the distributor of the pumps.
Maintenance of solar powered piped systems would also be the responsibility of the WSC which would
contract out maintenance functions to local mechanics or representatives of the supplier of equipment.
Water User Groups would be established for the operation of each water delivery point and would collect
revenues to be transferred to the WSC. Communes will backstop technical services and ensure that spare
parts and repair services for water facilities are available to the communities.
207.  Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation would be a continuous activity
throughout the project cycle and undertaken by the communities, the Communes and the DRHE. The
adaptive program nature of the credit makes it possible for long-term monitoring of post-investment
operation and maintenance and feeding back lessons learned into the design of subsequent phases of the
program and refining the sector strategy.
Project Component No. 4. Environment and Social Protection Measures (US$ 6.9 million)
208.  The objective of the component is the implementation of environmental action plans aimed at
mitigating environmental and social impacts of NRIP I. The project will finance a number of investments,
legal and regulatory measures, studies, technical assistance, and capacity building activities designed to
contribute to the sustained use of the land and water resources of Mali, to provide support to vulnerable



64
social groups, to improve the voluntary relocation of villagers near the irrigated zones, and enhance
women's participation in economic development and local self-management. Many of these measures,
important for full socio-environmental management of the project, such as institutional, training, and
stakeholder information measures, will be integrated in the specific project component concerned.
209.  Institutional measures (US$ 0.8 million). The project will finance an Institutional Assessment
of the technical directorates of the Ministry of Environment to make this institution more effective.
Technical directorates of the Ministry of Environment will be strengthened to supervise, manage, and
monitor the Socio-Environment Program of NRIP (an agreement between the MDR and the Ministry of
Environment will be signed for this purpose). On demand, the project will contract renowned
international and national experts on environmental and social issues on a demand basis to provide advice
on the implementation of the NRIP socio-environment component. Finally, the project will strengthen
the M&E system of ON to include M&E of environmental impacts.
210.  Regulatory Measures (US$ 1.4 million). The project will review and improve the measures
required for effective environmental and social management, including: (a) an agreement between MDR
and the Ministry of Health on health measures and, financing, (b) introducing simplified screening criteria
and methods for social issues in the national rural transport strategy, and (c) assessment of the legal
implications of Mali's international commitments in regional watershed management conventions and
international environmental convention, and the institutional arrangements by which those commitments
can be managed. Regarding small-scale irrigation development, rural road rehabilitation, and rural water
supply, regulatory measures will include updating environmental clauses in contracts with irrigation
contractors, road contractors, and drilling contractors, including clauses on STD and AIDS awareness
training for their employees.
211. Studies and Analyses (US$ 2.5 million). In the ON area, studies and analyses will include: (a) a
drainage system study, (b) a baseline and then an ongoing assessment of soil salinization, (c) an analysis
and action plan for woodland depletion/production, (d) a natural habitat survey of Delta Mort critical
areas (fala) and unusual habitats, (e) a rapid hydrological analysis of minimum flows at Markala and
downstream water requirements to ensure a minimum flow to downstream users, (f) a ground water
resource study, with recommendations for wells and borehole sites, monitoring and groundwater
management, (g) full plan for possible farmers' voluntary relocation closer to irrigated land, (h) a land
tenure and socio-economic policy impact analysis, (i) the formulation of an action research/policy on
gender and (j) an action plan on how to integrate livestock in the Office du Niger area and how to manage
the pastures around the Office du Niger area in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner in
order to minimize land and water use conflicts and reduce impacts on vulnerable groups.
212.   Studies and analyses required for the non-ON project components focus on: (a) the conduct of
perimeter-specific Environmental Assessments (EAs) and Social Assessments (SAs), (b) the conduct of
road-section-specific EAs and SA(s), (c) social analyses in water point (borehole) selection to ensure
equitable distribution, (d) social analyses of vulnerable groups, of women in particular, to determine how
these groups can best benefit from improved rural infrastructure, and to prepare an action plan to
facilitate women's right to land in small-scale irrigation schemes.
213.  Environmental and social investments (US$ 0.8 million). Environmental and social investments
in irrigation, road rehabilitation and/or rural water supply include: (a) health related investments in
collaboration with the Ministry of Health, (b) support of IPM activities in collaboration with FAO; and
(c) a demand driven tree planting program to ensure the sustainable production of wood..



65
214.   Capacity building (US$ 1.4 million). The project will finance capacity building activities in
environmental and social issues for all stakeholders: Governmental departments, ON and AGETIER staff,
NGOs, local authorities, farmer leaders, etc. In particular, the project will strengthen technical and
institutional capacities as well as equipment of DNACPN, which will coordinate the component activities.
Project Component No. 5. AGETIER (US$ 1.1 million)
215.   This agency will be in charge of managing technical studies and civil works for the small scale
irrigation and water wells sub-components. The project will finance equipment for its set up (vehicles,
computer equipment, furniture) and training. During the first year (while waiting for the project activities
under its care to generate sufficient revenue for its operation), the Malian government will finance
salaries (the Director General, a Technical Director, the Director for Administration and Finance and their
support staff) and part of the agency's operating costs.
216.   The relatively small size and scattered location of many of the rural works should encourage the
participation of local NGOs, small contractors and engineering consultants who will be encouraged to
associate as partner organizations that will benefit from training in participatory techniques and
procurement procedures through AGETIER, making them more effective development partners in
rendering their services to local communities and local governments (e.g. communes) in the planning,
implementation and operation phases of rural infrastructure investments. It is expected that a partnership
will develop between the central government, communes and villages, the private sector, and AGETIER,
with AGETIER playing a facilitation role in contracting out technical studies, civil works and their
supervision. The relationship between central/local governments and AGETIER will be formalized in
terms of conventions signed between them.
217.   AGETIER is an association whose membership is the head of the Chamber of Agriculture, a
representative of Office du Niger farmers, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the NGO
representative organizations (CCAONG, SECO-ONG), CMDT (The Malian Company for Textile
Development) and OHVN (the Upper Niger Valley Operation). The association was created in
September 1999.32 The association's day-today operations are carried out by an executive office staffed
with a Director General, technical and financial directors, recruited through an open, competitive
process.33 The Agency will be remunerated by a 5% service charge levied on the basis of the amount of
work executed.
Project Component No. 6: Program Coordination and Program Monitoring (US$ 11.9 million)
218.   Program Coordination (US$ 9.2 million). The project will finance the salaries of the project
coordinator, his deputy, the accountant, and the support staff of the National Project Coordination Unit,
as well as the unit's equipment (vehicles, computers, and furniture), staff training, and operating costs.
The project will also finance the equipment (office furniture, vehicles, computing equipment, etc..) and
the salaries for the coordinator and the rest of the personnel for the Regional Project Coordination Units
in the regions where the project will start, including ON's project implementation costs, as described in
Section C4. The financing is broken down as follows: national office of the PCU, US$ 2.9 million;
regional offices of the PCU, US$ 1.8 million; ON, US$ 0.6 million; DNTP, US$ 0.1 million; DNAER,
US$ 0.5 million; DNH/DRH, US$ 1.6 million; and DNACPN, US$ 1.7 million.
32 An application for formal registration of the Association, together with the by-laws, has been submitted to the Ministry of Territorial
Administration in conformity with Malian law (formal registration expected by end November 1999).
33 The agency's Director General has been recruited and the description of the rest of the posts is ongoing.



66
219.  Program Monitoring (US$ 2.7 million). The project will finance the set-up of an information
management system, and periodic surveys - the first one for establishing a baseline, and others surveys as
described in the Project Implementation Manual.



67
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MALI: National Rural Infrastructure Project
Pio0tot ByCThpontent                      L.a  -  -Fo>^r . e 'l   {-n   -   L i~
us         Ul$s,
-$millin    smIitfUon    $miniorn ..
Irrigation                                23.2        28.4       51.6
Roads                                      7.0        13.3       20.3
Rural Water Supply                         9.0        11.0       20.0
Environment                                2.9         3.1        6.0
AGETIER                                    0.7         0.2        0.9
Implementation Units                       6.8         3.2       10.0
PPF                                        0.0         1.3        1.3
Total Baseline Cost                       49.6        60.5      110.1
Physical Contingencies                     4.6         6.4       11.0
Price Contingencies                       12.8         5.4       18.2
Total Project Costs                       67.0        72.3      139.3
Total Financing Required                  67.0        72.3      139.3
Projt Cst By- Ceit                         LotaI   ' ,Foreign     Totali
us     ~~Us  J     -us
> @-             S~~~~million    ,$mifliuon    $miiopn 
Works                                     42.9        51.7        94.6
Goods                                       1.0        2.5         3.5
Services and training                      16.7       15.5        32.2
Other                                      6.4         2.6         9.0
Total Project Costs                       67.0        72.3       139.3
Total Financing Required                  67.0        72.3       139.3



68
Annex 4: Cost-Benefit/Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
WALI: National Rural Infrastructure Project
I.    INTRODUCTION
220.   The program's purpose is to reduce poverty and improve the livelihood of the rural population by
accelerating the provision, and enhancing the sustainability, of basic rural infrastructure, particularly in
irrigation for increased agricultural production, feeder roads for increased access to markets and social
services, and clean rural water supply and sanitation for better health. This will be achieved through
establishing and/or strengthening mechanisms for the optimal use of scarce government resources in the
provision and maintenance of rural infrastructure based on increased private sector and beneficiary
participation in rural infrastructure financing and management, and by financing physical investments in
the three sub-sectors.
II.   LINKAGES TO CAS AND MACRO-ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
221.   The Bank's CAS for Mali emphasizes competitive, broad-based growth in the rural sector
"through rehabilitating/expanding irrigated areas, and by supporting the strengthening of local capacity in
both the public and private sectors." This project is firmly anchored in this vision by strengthening the
local institutional and private sector capacity to provide sustainable basic infrastructure, and by financing
priority investments in irrigation, feeder roads, and rural water supply and sanitation.
LU. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
222.   In addition to the approach retained, two other alternatives were considered for the program but
rejected as ineffective.
0  The traditional project approach of Government (with donor assistance) shouldering the full
funding responsibility for irrigation infrastructure development raises serious equity issues
(providing relatively high investment support to a limited group of beneficiaries) and limits
Government's ability to fully develop Mali's irrigation potential, as resources are limited.
O  Implementing full cost recovery for all investment and maintenance charges from the project's
beneficiaries, was rejected since: (i) farming in this area has not yet reached a sufficient
technological level to allow for such a financial contribution by farmers, regardless of the size of
their farm, and (ii) there is insufficient experience with large scale farns and their attractiveness to
private investors in the ON intervention area still needs to be tested.
IV. FISCAL IMPACT AND COST RECOVERY
223.   The project has been designed to lower the Government's net contribution to the Office du Niger
irrigation scheme through a cost recovery mechanism. Details of the financial analysis and impact of the
cost recovery mechanism on beneficiaries and the fiscal position of GOM are provided in Annex 5.



69
V    COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
224.  A detailed cost-benefit analysis has been performed for investments in irrigation and feeder
roads. Apart from direct benefits to the program's primary beneficiaries, indirect benefits will also
accrue to thousands more both upstream and downstream involved in input supply, establishment, repair,
and maintenance of the infrastructure, processing, transport, produce marketing, and consumption of
locally produced agricultural products whose importation would have resulted in higher prices. The
balance of trade will also be tilted in the country's favor through import-substitution. The increased rural
incomes and employment will contribute to slowing down the rural-urban migration that has resulted in
the unsustainable 5.6% urban population growth rate (straining Mali's social services, with a potential to
destabilize Mali's young democracy), as well as the emigration to foreign countries (where they often
meet a less than enthusiastic welcome from their hosts). Indirect benefits have not been included in the
cost-benefit analysis because of computation and data difficulties. Similarly, only direct beneficiaries
were taken into account, although project benefits will likely accrue to several other groups.
a) Irrigation
225.  A total of 9,265 ha (approximated to 9,300 ha in the main text) will be rehabilitated/developed:
8,265 ha at ON (5,850 ha in Sokolo, 1,300 in M'Bewani, and 1115 ha in Koumouna), and 1,000 ha of
small scale perimeters (500 ha in Mopti, 250 ha in Tombouctou, and 250 ha in Gao). Given the
geographical dispersion of the perimeters, the varying nature of the irrigation systems (large scale
institutionalized irrigation versus small scale community managed irrigation), and the difference in the
planned interventions (rehabilitation versus new development), separate analyses were conducted for
each of the large irrigation perimeters (Sokolo, M'Bewani, and Koumouna). As investments in small-
scale irrigation are demand driven, only hypothetical cases were reviewed based on existing irrigation
schemes in the project area (Mopti, Tombouctou, and Gao).
226.  At an average of 3 ha per household at ON, and 0.25 ha elsewhere, some 6,755 farm households
on aggregate, or almost 81,000 people (estimated at an average of 12 people per household) are expected
to directly benefit from this component.
227.  At full project development (5th year), it is expected that the combined rehabilitated/developed
perimeters will be producing annually an incremental 39,300 tons of paddy, 18,500 tons of onion, 1,000
tons of tomatoes, 88 tons of potatoes, and 800 tons of maize. Compared to 1998/1999 production at
Office du Niger, this reflects an 11% increase in paddy production, 10% for tomatoes, 3% for potatoes,
and 12% for maize, which is well below demand projections over the next ten years. The projected
demand for and domestic production of rice is shown in the table below, with demand constantly ahead of
supply. Likewise production increases for other crops will not be able to keep up with population growth.
Incremental Production and Demand Projections (Rice in '000s mt)
2000           2005            2010
Production:    Without project      340             340             340
with projects        340            370             380
Demand                              400             470             559
Gap            Without project       60             130             219
with project         60              100            179



70
228.   The consolidated irrigation component has an economic rate of return (ERR) of 18.2 percent and
a financial rate of return of 18.0 percent. Details for each of the schemes is provided in the appendix to
this Annex. Only direct measurable benefits (value of the incremental agricultural production) were
taken into account in the analyses. All benefits were conservatively estimated by using the low range of
potential production increases and not including benefits from potential diversification of production. A
planning horizon of 20 years was used in the analysis.
VI. QUANTITATIVE SENSITIVITY AND RISK ANALYSIS
229.   The rate of return would be reduced to 14.6 percent if the projected benefits were to decline by
10 percent. It would decline to 14.2 percent if production costs would go up by 10 percent, and to 14.0
percent if the projected investment costs would increase by 10 percent. Benefits are not expected to
substantially decline as conservative prices and yields have been used in the estimate, and irrigated
agriculture has a very stable output. Similarly, conservative cost estimates have been used in the
analysis.
230.   The main risks that may affect the impact of the project are: (i) implementation delays, (ii)
higher than estimated costs for rehabilitation and expansion of the irrigation perimeters; (iii) availability
of seasonal credit; (iv) prices for outputs and inputs; (v) access to markets; and (vi) ability/willingness of
farners to pay the increased fees.
231.  Implementation Delays. The likelihood of reduced benefits due to implementation delays is
minimal given ON's past procurement training and long-term experience in contracting for irrigation
development in its intervention zone, and the fact that all bidding documents are ready. In addition, a one
year delay in benefits would only reduce the rate of return to 17.0 percent. There will not be any
implementation delays caused by institutional reforms since all major reform was completed during the
previous operation.
232.   Costs. The costs for the first phase of the program have been estimated using historical data with
appropriate mark-ups to compensate for inflation. During the predecessor project, ON was able to
manage costs satisfactorily with one exception precipitated by the devaluation of the Franc CFA in 1994,
in which the price escalation clause in the contract turned out to be very favorable to the contractor. A
recurrence of such an event is unlikely given the stable macro-economic environment and the fact that the
language in the contracts related to price escalation will be tightened up. An increase in overall costs by
10 percent would reduce the rate of return to 14.0 percent.
233.   Credit. Currently, there are no significant seasonal credit constraints at ON for farmers that
honor their debt obligations. However, seasonal credit systems are not as well developed in Mopti,
Tomboctou, and Gao, thus constituting a major risk for irrigation development. The project will build
upon the hitherto positive experience whereby one-time grants are made to associations of irrigators for
onlending to their members in a revolving manner at an interest rate sufficient to safeguard the funds' real
value over time (which will be initially set six percent). These groups could later be transformed into
local savings and credit associations. This is will be done through NGOs who provide training and
ensure close supervision.
234.  Prices. Forecasts for rice production and consumption show that Mali will not be self-sufficient
in rice in the foreseeable future. Domestically produced rice is competitive compared to rice imported
from the major exporting countries and the sub-region. In addition, international price forecasts show a
slight upward trend for rice. (See project files for an analysis of the competitiveness of Malian rice on



71
the local market). GOM has been able to maintain a liberalized price and trade regime for rice and other
agricultural commodities and inputs for more than a decade now. Rice import tariffs were progressively
reduced from 49% in 1995 to 11% in 1998, at which level they have remained since. GOM still reserves
the right to impose countervailing duties in the case of dumping. The 1994 devaluation of the CFAF
provided a major impetus to the competitiveness of Mali's crops, in particular rice, the major irrigated
crop. Input prices are expected to remain stable.
235.  Access to markets. Ready markets exist for crops such as rice, tomatoes, onions and maize. ON
has good primary and secondary roads (the latter built along the rehabilitated canals). However, trading
channels are underdeveloped in the irrigated areas in Mopti/ Tomboctou/Gao, due to a poor road
network, which is exacerbated by Mali's aging fleet and high taxes on fuel and spare parts. Therefore,
most of the projected output will be consumed in the local/regional markets.
b) Rural Transport Infrastructure
236.  Three roads will be rehabilitated: the Nara-Niono road (202.3km rehabilitated through the project
out of 254 km), the Banamba-Niono road (210 km), and the Djenne-Say road (60 km). Only quantifiable
benefits were attributed to the entire road investment costs in the analysis. However, this understates the
return on the investment as very substantial hard-to-quantify benefits are expected to accrue from the
investment as is evident from the discussion below. For each road, the analysis assumes a planning
horizon of 20 years, an opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent, a demand elasticity for passenger
transportation of 1, and a demand elasticity of merchandize transportation of 1. It also been assumed that
there would not be any diverted traffic on these rehabilitated roads and that increase in traffic will come
regular and inducted traffic.
(i) The Nara-Niono road
237.  Key Additional Assumptions. The project assumes: (a) an initial bump in traffic of 70 percent on
the Nara-Sokolo stretch, and 48 percent on the Sokolo-Niono stretch, thereafter growing at 4 percent per
year, (b) annual savings in vehicle operating costs of 374 CFAF/vehicle/km for current traffic, and 182
CFAF/vehicle/km for induced traffic, (c) residual value at end of planning horizon of 16 percent.
2:38.  Cost Benefit Summary (NPV = US$ 1.38 million, ERR = 14.9 percent). As stated above, this is
an underestimate of the actual return as this US$ 6.65 million investment is expected to generate several
hard-to-quantify social benefits. The road's catchment area, which is located in Nara and Niono districts
(or "cercles"), has very dismal social indicators: only 20 percent of the population in Nara district and 55
percent in Niono district live within 5 kilometers of a health center (average distance to a health center in
Niono district is 20 km, with some as far away as 70 km), malnutrition runs at 33 percent, and the infant
mortality rate runs at 238 per one thousand for children under 5 years old. The local per capita revenue
of CFAF 103,000 is 55 percent less than the national average (there is a 75 percent poverty rate). This
road will make 7 health centers accessible, and with the expected increase in traffic (and household
incomes), several lives will be saved and/or the quality of life of the 270,000 inhabitants improved.
Likewise, school attendance of school-age children in this area is a mere 30 percent. The road will link
up 37 schools to major urban centers. This is likely to spur more schools because of increased
accessibility and some growth in local income, and school performance is likely to improve as the area
will be more attractive to teachers, and can easily be monitored/supported by the urban based education
officials.



72
239.  Sensitivity Analysis. An increase in investment costs of more than 25% or a decrease of the
benefits of more than 18% would lead to a negative NPV at 12%.
(ii) Banamba-Niono road
240.  Cost Benefit Summary (NPV = US$ 50,000, ERR = 12.1 percent). This road costing about US$
6.44 million cuts through an agriculturally rich area, and will generate a major incremental agricultural
production. It will similarly generate substantial social benefits.
241.  Sensitivity Analysis. 'The most profitable technical has a 12% NPV equal to zero. As a result, a
slight negative change in investment cost or in benefits would lead to a negative 12% NPV.
(iii) Djenne-Say road
242.  Currently, transportation tariffs vary between CFAF 136 and 235 CFA/ton/km, and the commute
is very time consuming (average dry season speed of 27.50 km/h, and 13.75 km/h in the wet season).
Additional assumptions used in the analysis include: a projected annual traffic growth of 4 percent,
following an initial 50 percent jump in induced traffic, and 40 percent in diverted traffic (this road is
much shorter than the one many currently used but is avoided because of its current condition); a 5
percent increase in agricultural production (including 1,250 hectares of rice production); a recurrent cost
estimate of 2.5 percent of construction costs, and periodic maintenance cost of 10 percent.
243.  Cost Benefit Summary  (ERR: 12.0 percent). This road, estimated to cost around US$ 2.5
million, would serve a population of at least 35,000 (28 villages). Preliminary unit cost estimates
averages CFAF 29.4 million/km (US$ 4,900), corresponding to an ERR of 12.0 % -- not accounting for
non-quantifiable social benefits. The high investment costs are due to the fact that laterite is as far away
as 40 km, and sections of the road have to be built in such a way as not be submersed in the rainy season
(June-October). Using the soil-cement technique should reduce the total cost by 15% and increase the
ERR to 13.9% making sufficiently profitable. There are also vehicle size limitations at the Belenikenyi
bridge (needed to access the road). In addition to tapping the area's very rich agricultural potential, this
investment is likely to have tremendous hard-to-quantify payoffs in health and education. Due to the
area's isolation, school enrollment in only 3 percent, compared to the regional (low) rate of 15 percent,
and the national rate of 40 percent. In addition, the road would link this community's four schools, 3
health centers, and 7 adult education centers with the rest of the country.
244.  Sensitivity Analysis. With the use of the soil-cement technique, a decrease of 12.5% in the
benefits would lead to a 12% NPV equal to 0.
c) Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
245.  Whereas the component's costs are easily measurable, the health benefits associated with clean
drinking water are difficult to quantify and cost. Consequently, this component will be subjected to a cost
effectiveness test, whereby the least costly way of delivering the desired service will be utilized. This
assessment will be done at appraisal.



73
Appendix 1: Detailed Cost-Benefit Analysis by Irrigation Scheme
Generic Assumptions
246.  At present, yields for rice on recently rehabilitated/new irrigation perimeters ranges from 6 to 7.3
t/ha, depending on the technology mix used and the soils. In this analysis, a conservative yield estimate
of 6.0-6.5 t/ha was used. Similarly, conservative yields were utilized for vegetables. In addition,
vegetable yields were adjusted for an estimated 20% loss during handling, transportation, and cleaning.
Cropping intensity at present is about 1.05 for the ON zone. An increase to 1.2 is considered easily
attainable. Water service charges are uniform across ON perimeters, but vary according to the physical
condition of the irrigation network (figures used in the analysis: CFAF 57,150 Class 1; CFAF 46,150
Class 2, and CFAF 37,150 Class 3). The newly rehabilitated and extension areas will be charged the
highest rate (Class 1). The opportunity cost of labor was estimated at CFAF 750/day. Perimeter specific
assumptions will be presented perimeter by perimeter. All tables are in project files.
Sokolo
247.  Assumptions.  Currently, farm  sizes range from 2 ha to 9 ha.  It is expected that after
rehabilitation and land reallocation, farm sizes will range from 2 ha to 7 ha, with 2 ha farms covering
about 36% of land area, 5 ha farms about 53% of land area, and 7 ha farms about 11% of land area.
Cropping intensity will increase from 1.01 to 1.20 over five years. This will come from off-season rice
and vegetable production, mainly onions/shallots, tomatoes, and maize. At full project development,
yield for the main season rice crop is expected to increase from 4.5 tons/ha 6.0 tons per hectare. Starting
from January 2002, all maintenance charges, including those for primary infrastructure, will be paid by
beneficiaries. Consequently, starting from the 4th year of the project, these charges will be included in
the water fees paid by farmers. Yields in the without project scenario are expected to remain at their
present level even though siltation of the secondary canals will gradually reduce water availability.
248.  Expected Results. At full project development, it is expected that the rehabilitated perimeter will
be producing annually an additional 14,700 tons of paddy, 5,000 tons of onion, 750 tons of tomatoes, and
800 tons of maize. In monetary terms, this is equivalent to an additional 1.9 billion CFAF in net income
from increased agricultural production. Return to family labor is projected to increase from 2,000 CFAF
per day to 3,800 CFAF per day, a 190% increase. The Sokolo perimeter has an economic rate of return
of 16.5 percent. This would reduce to 14.7 percent if the projected investment costs would increase by 10
percent or 13.8 percent if the projected benefits would decline by 10 percent.
M'Bewani
249.  With an average annual rainfall of only 480 mm, agricultural production under rainfed
conditions, principally of millet and sorghum, is very limited, a situation that is compounded by crop
destruction by birds living in the nearby sugar cane plantations. According to a 1990 land utilization
assessment, almost all land is currently under bush, although with sufficient water, the soils in the area
are generally suitable for growing rice (with a possible yield of 5.5 to 6.5 t/ha) and several horticultural
crops. The local inhabitants cover their consumption needs by growing crops in far off fields where
harvest prospects are better (20 to 100 km away from their villages) and supplementing their farm
revenue with wood and occasional livestock sales as well as providing labor to the sugar-cane industry in
the vicinity. An average household operates 3.5 hectares of dry land farming. This, plus some other
supplemental revenue as just discussed amounts to an estimated net revenue of 122,800 CFAF per
household, corresponding to a return to labor of only 350 CFAF/per person day.



74
250.  The standard of living for M'Bewani's 20,000 inhabitants is very low. There are only five
schools for the 39 villages, with a large number of the villages located at 25 km or more from the
"nearby" schools. Consequently, most of the school-age children do not go to school; after the age of 10
years on average, they start helping their parents with farm/household chores. There is only one clinic in
the zone, with the only "nearby" maternity/health center located at Markala, 60 km away. There are
about 30 traditional water wells in the village, but their output is weak, particularly in the dry season.
There is no electricity, and the nearest postal service is at Markala. In view of this abject poverty facing
the M'Bewani population, government decided in 1996 to install some irrigation infrastructure in the
area, making M'Bewani the first irrigation expansion project in over 35 years. It was also the first time
that beneficiaries physically participated in canal construction (tertiary canals and their corresponding
drains) and land leveling. The first tranche of 475 ha was completed in 1996, allowing each family to
have a plot of about 0.42 ha, compared to the average 3.0 ha elsewhere in the ON zone. The first
installment of the second tranche (300 ha) was completed in 1997, and the second installment in 1998.
The third trance of 500 ha is nearing completion. This leaves approximately 1,300 ha to be developed on
this particular perimeter, which will be sufficient to bring each household to an average of 3 ha, the norm
at ON.
251.  Assumptions. Based upon current production patterns and future projections, it is expected that
under the project, a typical household will only grow rice in the main season, and some rice and vegetable
gardening in the off-season, with the cropping intensity expected to stabilize at 1.2 starting from the 5th
year. It is also expected that farm households which will be granted access to irrigated land will
gradually abandon dry land farming, and within 3 years (the amount of time it takes to complete
developing the irrigation perimeter) all farming activity will be irrigated. The three main crops expected
to be grown are rice, onions/shallots, and tomatoes. A hectare of rice is expected to provide a net return
of CFAF 190,000 compared to CFAF 1.4 million for shallots, and CFAF 1.1 million for tomatoes. The
rice import parity price was computed at CFAF 122.7/kg. Main season rice yields (paddy) are expected
to be 5.5 tons/ha for the first 2 years and then stabilize at 5 tons/ha thereafter (this decline is expected for
land that has been under fallow for a very long time), and off-season paddy yields are projected at 4
tons/ha.
252.  Expected Results. The major benefits of the project will come from increased agricultural
production, particularly rice. At full project development (five years after the project's beginning),
farmers will be producing 12.9 tons of paddy, 1.4 tons of shallots, and 0.3 tons of tomatoes. There will,
however, be an almost 2,000 ton loss in dry land cereal production. Overall, the net incremental
production is valued at CFAF 1.25 billion annually in 1999 constant prices. Food security will be
enhanced through reduced variability in agricultural production, which is much more predictable under
irrigated farming. Similarly, farmers' revenues will increase by an average of 400%. In addition, the
return to labor is expected to go up by more than six times under irrigated farming. Labor employment is
expected to go up by 40%, including labor for off-season farm activities, which should contribute to
stemming rural urban migration. The financial internal rate of return is estimated at 17.2%, whereas the
economic rate of return is estimated at 15.6%. The projected economic rate of return would go down to
13.1 % if projected benefits were to decline by 10% or projected investment costs were to go up by 10%.
Koumouna
253.   Some 444 ha will be partially developed (only primary canals constructed), with the rest of the
development to be completed by prospective investors with their own resources.



75
254.  Expected Results. At full project development, it is expected that the developed perimeter will be
producing annually 1,600 tons of paddy, 53 tons of onion, 19 tons of tomatoes, 88 tons of potatoes, and
44 tons of maize. In monetary terms, this is equivalent to an additional 217 million CFAF in net income
from increased agricultural production. The economic rate of return for the 444 ha was estimated at 14.0
percent. This would reduce to 12.8 percent if projected benefits would decline by 10 percent, down to
12.3 percent if production costs went up by 10 percent, and down to 12.0 percent if projected investment
costs would increase by 10 percent.
Applied Research
255.  No economic analysis will be done for the research equipment, cultural practices, and irrigation
methods, marketing strategies to be tested out under this activity. In order to minimize costs, a lead
research agency will be selected through a competitive process.  This agency will propose the
methodology to be used and the appropriate test equipment to be purchased in its offer. This agency will
then work very closely with local research institutions, most notably the Rural Economy Institute (IER)
and the Mechanization Unit of the Department of Rural Works and Equipment of the Ministry of Rural
Development.
Small Scale Irrigation Perimeters (Mopti, Tombouctou, and Gao)
256.  According to a 1994 survey, the regions of Tombouctou, Gao, and Mopti are some of the poorest
in the country. The major economic activity is livestock herding. Little cereal production is possible
because of poor rainfall, which is less than 400 mm in most areas. These areas are also far removed from
the major market centers (Segou and Bamako), making imported food very expensive. Increased food
security and higher and stable household incomes will necessitate greater reliance on irrigated agriculture,
mainly in the Niger river valley where the flat terrain and proximity the Niger river water make it possible
to lower the costs of irrigation development. In order to reduce investment costs, the project will only
consider perimeters for which a protective dike is not necessary, either because they are located outside a
flood plain (except in exceptional floods), or because a protective dike already exists. A full net benefit-
cost analysis for the specific perimeters to be developed/rehabilitated is not possible at this time since
these perimeters are demand-driven and therefore their specific location can only be known during
project implementation. However, analyses have been carried out for typical cases in each of the three
regions (Mopti, Tombouctou, and Gao) where NRIP-I will intervene. During project implementation,
only those perimeters with an ERR of at least 12% will be developed/rehabilitated.
257.  Main Assumptions. A typical perimeter is assumed to produce rice in both the main and the off
season, with no significant horticultural production expected to take place in either season. This
assumption is based upon the long distance between the project area and the major market centers,
particularly Bamako, which makes highly perishable and bulky vegetables difficult to profitably truck to
these markets. For Tombouctou and Gao, main season paddy yields are expected to reach 4.5 tons/ha,
whereas in Mopti, it is expected to increase go up to 5.0 tons/ha. Off-season yields will increase to 4
tons/ha in all three regions. Total production projections were based on a 100% utilization of the area for
crop production during the main season, and a progressive utilization increase of up to 20% in Mopti and
Tombouctou, and 50% in Gao during the off season. On average, each household participating in the
project is expected to receive one hectare of irrigated land. The economic price of paddy was estimated
at CFAF 13 1/kg in Mopti, CFAF 118 in Tombouctou, and CFAF 132 in Gao.
258.  Expected Results. At full project development, annual paddy production is expected to reach
5,000 tons in Mopti, 2,4000 tons in Tombouctou, and 2,400 tons in Gao, representing 6%, 5%, and 32%



76
for current production, which is expected to be absorbed by local demand, even in Gao, where most of
the rice currently consumed is imported from other regions of Mali (Table 4e.3). At full project
development, each labor day is expected to earn CFAF 3,300 in all three regions, compared to the
opportunity cost of labor of CFAF 750. The economic rate of return is estimated at 18.1 percent for
Mopti, 18.3 percent for Tombouctou, and 12.0 - 15.0 percent for Gao (depending upon the farming
model used).



77
Annex 5: Financial Summary
MALI: National Rural Infrastructure Project
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
(Calendar Years, denoted as CYs)
To&i Finhcii%g Reque              CY01       CY02        C03        CYO4       'CY05
Project Costs
Investment Costs                    9.4       32.2        50.3       24.7        14.9
Recurrent Costs                     1.3        1.7         1.7        1.6         1.5
Total Project Costs                  10.7       33.9        52.0       26.3       16.4
Total Financing                      10.7       33.9        52.0       26.3       16.4
Financing
IDA                                8.3       28.6       42.2        22.2       13.8
Central Government                 2.0        4.3         6.1        3.0        2.0
Co-financiers                      0.3        0.7         0.7        0.4         0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries            0.1        0.3         3.0        0.7         0.6
Total Project Financing              10.7       33.9        52.0       26.3       16.4
259.   The financial rates of return for the entire project and for the individual components are presented
in Annex 4, and so they will not be repeated here. This annex discusses the fiscal impact of the project,
and cost recovery arrangements.
Fiscal Impact
260.   Irrigation. The government will contribute US$ 8.6 million towards irrigation investments (for a
total of US$ 17.4 including other components) over five years, which is deemed manageable. It will be
fully responsible for the additional extension service needs at ON, costing US$200,000 per year, a
responsibility that will continue even after the project closes. (Note: extension services at Mopti,
Tombouctou and Gao will initially be provided under the project through contracts with NGOs, but
gradually phased into the existing national extension service that already operates in the area). Currently,
GOM is also responsible for the maintenance of the primary infrastructure at ON, for about US$ 300,000
per year.  However, starting from  January 2002, farmers will be fully responsible for primary
infrastructure maintenance. This will constitute annual savings of US$ 300,000 to the government, i.e.
US$ 100,000 more than the additional cost in extension services. Therefore, from project year 5
onwards, the project's fiscal impact will be in favor of GOM as annual savings from the transfer of
primary infrastructure maintenance responsibility to farmers will exceed the extension service
responsibility added to GOM. This analysis does not take into account the tax revenue that will be
generated from the additional economic activity due to the project (input supply, establishment, repair,
and maintenance of the infrastructure, processing, transport, produce marketing).
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6 - 20
Investment                                     1.4      2.8      4.5      0.7      2.8       0.0
Recurrent Expenditure (Extension Service)      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2       0.2
Primary Infrastructure Maintenance Savings                      -0.3     -0.3    -0.3       -0.3
Total                                          1.6      3.0      4.4      0.6      2.7      -0.1



78
261.   Rural Transport Infrastructure. On the investment side, the government will finance its initial
counterpart funding of US$ 5.3 million during phase I. In phase II, the project will co-finance local rural
transport infrastructure. Therefore the governnent will have to finance its counterpart for those
investments. Regarding maintenance, no additional budgetary outlays are expected from the central
government, as all rural road maintenance needs will be met through the Road Authority with direct
levies on users for the main network (i.e. feeder roads) and through participation by local governments
for local rural transport infrastructure.
262.   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation. Regarding rural water supply and sanitation, no additional
demands will be imposed on government beyond counterpart funding of US$ 3.5 million for initial
investments since future maintenance needs will be met entirely by beneficiaries.
Cost Recovery
263.   Irrigation.  Transferring GOM's current contribution to primary irrigation infrastructure
maintenance to ON farmers will translate into an addition of at least CFAF 5,000/ha to the current water
service charge of about CFAF 62,000/ha on rehabilitated land.34 The resulting water service charge is
equivalent to slightly above 10% of paddy yield per hectare, which is very reasonable. In the case of the
"lease-purchase" pilot, farmers would make an annual repayment of about 40,000 FCFAF/ha, bringing
the total payment (water charges and capital contribution) to approximately CFAF 110,000 or 17% of
paddy yield.35 This is sufficient to leave them with a return of between CFAF 2,000/labor day and
CFAF 3,500/labor day, which is still very remunerative. Farm models for privately developed land
indicate variable profitability, depending upon the equipment used, ranging from 14 - 20 percent.
264.   Rural Transport Infrastructure. The project will initially emphasize the institutional set up of
the road authority over a rapid increase in its resources, in order to first build the authority's capacity to
plan and effectively administer maintenance programs. It is envisaged that for a start, the current
budgetary allocation for road maintenance will be expressed on a per litter basis and levied directly from
the fuel to the road maintenance fund. Thus, at the beginning, there is neither a budgetary nor an "at the
pump" change. The key difference will be the rapid mobilization of these resources, which will no longer
transit through the treasury. Meanwhile, studies will be conducted to determine (i) the repartition of the
road network between the central and local governments, and (ii) the maintenance needs of all the
national network. These results will help determine the amnount of fuel surcharge and other levies to
apply to road users for purposes of road maintenance. Once the authority's technical and managerial
capacity is fully established, and its efficiency in the utilization of resources at current allocations is
clearly demonstrated, there will be a proportionate shift in focus toward increased resource inflows into
the fund.
265.   Phase II will split the various costs of building and maintaining rural transport infrastructure
between the GOM, local governments and communities according to what will have been decided in the
National Rural Transport Strategy. It is expected that largest share of building will be born by the central
government and the largest share of maintenance will be born by the communities and local governments.
34 Under the current contrat-plan (1999-2001), farmers pays a water service charge of CFAF 62,000/ha for rehabilitated land and from CFAF
46,000/ha to CFAF 53,000/ha for non-rehabilitated land.
35 Currently, some farmers rent land from other farmers for prices as high as CFAF 100,000/ha/year



79
266.  Rural Water Supply. Similarly, communities desirous of a water supply investment will be
required to contribute a share of the investment cost prior to the execution of rural water as part of the
expression of their demand. The actual amount will depend upon the individual community's ability to
pay, as determined by the socioeconomic evaluation of the area. On average, this contribution will
approximately be equal to 5-10% of the cost of investment.



80
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MALI: National Rural Infrastructure Project
Procurement
1.   Guidelines. The Malian procurement Code, revised in 1995 with IDA assistance, is generally
sound. No special exemption, permit or license needs to be specified in credit documents for International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) as Mali allows Bank procedures to take precedence over any contrary local
regulations or practices. All works and goods financed under the credit will be procured in accordance
with the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 and as revised In
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999".   Consultants will be selected in
accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,
January 1997 and as revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's standard bidding
documents for goods and for civil works will be used. For consulting services, the Bank's standard
documents for requesting proposals, and for contracts will be used.  National Competitive Bidding
advertised locally (NCB) will be carried out in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA which
allow that: (a) any bidders are given sufficient time to submit bids (three to four weeks for contracts
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent); (b) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified; (c) no
preference margin is granted to domestic contractors or manufacturers; (d) eligible foreign firms are not
precluded from participation; (e) contracts provide for security in amounts sufficient to protect the
Borrower in case of breach of contract (without distinction or exception); (f) prior to issuing the first call
for bids, draft standard bidding documents are submitted to IDA and found acceptable (for the case of
AGETIER, the first 10 draft documents); and (g) award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder.
Table A summarizes the project elements, their estimated costs, and proposed methods of procurement.
2.    Advertising. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and will be published in the
UN Development Business and in a newspaper with national circulation as provided under the
Guidelines. The GPN will be updated on a yearly basis and will show all outstanding ICB and all
consulting services estimated to cost US$200,000 or more. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be
required for contracts to be procured under ICB and NCB procedures, in accordance with the Guidelines.
A request for expression of interest will be required for each consultant contract estimated to cost US$
200,000 or more prior to the preparation of a short-list, in accordance with the Guidelines.
3.    Civil Works. The project will support the development/rehabilitation of large and small irrigation
perimeters, feeder roads, boreholes, wells, and sanitation facilities, as well as office repairs/conversions.
Rehabilitating/constructing large irrigation perimeters at ON, rehabilitating the three feeder roads and
drilling new boreholes are likely to be attractive to foreign bidders and would be tendered through ICB
procedures, for an estimated total value of about US$ 68.7 million. Eligible domestic contractors bidding
for works under ICB would receive a 7.5% preference margin in bid evaluation, in accordance with Bank
Procurement Guidelines.
4.    Small irrigation perimeters, repairing of old boreholes and the installation of new hand pumps
(totaling US$ 5.1 million) would be tendered through NCB, under procedures acceptable to IDA.
Because of the number of contracts, the type of works, and the location in remote rural areas, it is
unlikely that these works would be attractive to foreign contractors (though they would not be prevented
from bidding).



81
5.    Water wells, latrines, and rehabilitation of office premises, which are expected to cost less than
US$50,000 per contract, would be procured under Small Works Procurement procedures (totaling
US$2.3 million), i.e. comparing at least three quotations and choosing the least expensive. Again,
because these works are even smaller, and are scattered in different regions and villages, they are not
likely to attract contractors outside the locality.
6.     Goods. Equipment, materials, vehicles, motorcycles, computers, and furniture will be grouped to
the extent possible into bid packages of at least US$150,000 equivalent.  Bid packages worth
US$150,000 or more will be tendered through ICB. Eligible domestic contractors bidding for goods
under ICB would receive a 15% preference margin in bid evaluation, in accordance with Bank
Procurement Guidelines. Contracts for office equipment, and materials locally available which cost less
than US$150,000 equivalent but greater than US$30,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of
US$800,000 will be procured through NCB procedures. Small quantities of goods such as office
supplies, consumable materials and spare parts, which are normally available off-the-shelf at competitive
prices and which cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$30,000, will be procured through
prudent local shopping, based on price quotation obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, provided
that the aggregate amount does not exceed US$800,000 over the five years of the project.
7.     Consulting services. Consulting services financed by IDA, totaling about US$ 25.7 million, will
be for: (i) contract management services; (ii) studies, architectural designs, preparation of biding
documents, civil works supervision, setting up accounting systems, providing financial management
support, and carrying out financial and technical audits; and (iii) technical assistance and training.
Consultants will be hired through competition among qualified short-listed firms through a "Quality and
Cost Based Selection" (QCBS) process that takes into account the quality of the proposal and the cost of
the services in the selection of the successful firm, with the relative weight to be given to quality and cost
depending upon the nature of the assignment. For financial and technical audits and other services of a
standard nature, the Least Cost (LC) selection method would be the most appropriate -the firm with the
lowest price being selected, provided its technical proposal received the minimum qualifying score.
Services valued at less than US$ 100,000 per contract which do not require firms may be procured by
individual consultants. Consultants will be selected through comparison of at least three Curriculum
Vitae (CV) among those expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly in accordance with
the Guidelines, and judged against their qualification and experience. Single Source (SS) selection will be
used in exceptional cases in strict accordance with the Guidelines.
8.    Review by IDA. Except as specifically indicated for AGETIER, prior review by IDA regarding
all implementing agencies would be required for all contracts for civil works exceeding US$300,000
equivalent and all contracts for goods exceeding US$150,000 equivalent. All contracts with consulting
firms exceeding US$200,000 would be subject to a 'full review" (technical evaluation subject to IDA's
non-objection before opening financial proposals), and all contracts with consulting firms costing
US$50,000 equivalent or more, but costing less than US$200,000 equivalent, would only be subject to a
"quick review" (no non-objection needed from IDA after evaluating technical proposal and before
opening financial; only the non-objection after the entire evaluation is needed). Also prior reviewed will
be all contracts with individual consultants exceeding US$50,000 equivalent (no individual consultant
contracts are expected to exceed US$100,000 equivalent). The exception to prior review for consultant
contracts would not apply to Terms of References for such contracts, single-source hiring, assignments of
a critical nature (as determined by IDA), and to amendments to contracts raising their value above the
US$100,000 equivalent thresholds for firms and US$50,000 for individual consultants. However, given
AGETIER's relative inexperience with World Bank procurement procedures, all first ten contracts of



82
each category (civil works, goods and consultants) will be prior reviewed, regardless of the amount,
except for national shopping of goods costing less than US$30,000 equivalent. Prior review would cover
approximately 74% of the total value of contracts financed by IDA. Documentation for contracts under
these thresholds will be maintained for ex-post reviews by auditors and IDA supervisory staff. For all
contracts for works for which there are less than three bidders or for any decision not to select the lowest
evaluated bid, IDA's approval is needed prior to notifying the winning bidder.
9.    Procurement Readiness and Procurement Arrangements. All bidding documents for the first
year's project activities are either ready or will be ready before project effectiveness. Procurement would
be carried out by: (a) the PCU for the initial grouped purchase of vehicles and other equipment, and for
hiring the project's auditors; (b) ON for the large scale irrigation perimeters and for its institutional
support; (c) AGETIER, for the small scale irrigation perimeters sub-component and wells sub-
component; (d) DNH for the borehole sub-component; (e) DNTP for the feeder road component; (f)
DNACPN for environmental studies, and (g) DNAER for general irrigation studies. The results of the
procurement assessment as discussed below under "Overall Procurement Risk Assessment".
10.   AGETIER will manage the procurement of works for small scale irrigation and water wells. No
contracts managed by AGETIER are expected to exceed US$300,000 each. It is expected that on
average, three small scale irrigation perimeters would constitute one contract. Based on this assumption,
contracts for small scale irrigation are expected to be in the neighborhood of US$ 150,000 - US$ 250,000
each. These will be awarded using NCB procedures (for an aggregate amount of US$ 2.9 million) and
AGETIER standard documents acceptable to IDA. Contracts for water wells are expected to be less than
US$ 50,000 each. AGETIER will use Small Works procurement methods for these works (totaling about
US$ 1.4 million). IDA reviewed AGETIER's Manual of Procedures and its standard bidding documents
and found them consistent with Bank procedures.



83
Table 6A. Procurement Methods
(US$ million equivalent, net of taxes)
V  2         ICBR    NCR    OberP   NsF F7                   t.
1. Civil Works
l.a Large Scale Irrigation (ON)                             44.8                                 2.8        47.6
(38.1)                                         (38.1)
I.b .Small Scale Irrigation (AGETIER)                                    4.3                                4.3
(3.0)                              (3.0)
L.c Feeder Roads (DNTP-PCU)                                 22.1         2.3                                24.4
(19.9)      (2.1)                              (22.0)
1.d Borehole (DNH-PCU)                                       11.2                                           11.2
(9.5)                                          (9.5)
I.e Installation/rehab of manual pumps (DNH-PCU)                         4.2                                4.2
(3.6)                              (3.6)
1.f Wells (AGETIER)                                                                  1.7                     1.6
(1.4)                  (1.4)
1.g Sanitation works (DNH-PCU)                                                       0.7                     0.7
(0.6)                  (0.6)
1.h Construction/Rehab. of offices                                                   0.2                    0.2
(0.2)                  (0.2)
2. Goods
Vehicles                                                      1,0        0.3                     .1          1.5
(0.8)      (0.3)                               (1.1)
Equipment                                                    0.4         0.6         0.8         .1          1.9
(0.3)       (.5)       (0.7)                   (1.5)
3. Consulting Serv., managt. Fees and training
3.a For Large Irrig. (ON)                                                            12.4                   12.4
(10.0)                 (10.0)
3.b PCU support, DNTP, DNH, DNAER, DNACPN.                                           18.4                   18.4
(15.3)                 (15.3)
3. c Management Agetier 4                                                            3,0                     3,0
(2.4)                  (2,4)
4. Operating Costs for PCU, ON, DNTP,DNH, DNAER,                                     7.7                     7.7
DNACPN and DR                                                                       (6.1)                   (6.1)
Total                                                        79.5        11.7       44.9         3.2        139.3
(68.7)      (9.4)      (37.0)                 (115.1)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Entities in parenthesis denote agencies responsible for the activity's execution.
3/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing
the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
4/ AGETIER's fees will be in form of percentage (to be determined) applied to the work managed by it. Thus its fees will come
from items procured by NCB and "Other" methods.



84
Table 6B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
300,000 or above               ICB       All Impl. Agencies     All contracts ($67.5)
< 300,000, but 3 50,000       NCB        AGETIER                First 10 contracts ($2.9)
Other Impl. Agencies   None
Below 50,000               Small Worksppi    All Impl. Agencies  None
2. Goods
Above 150,000                  ICB       All Impl. Agencies     All contracts ($1.1)
<150,000, but 230,0           NCB        AGETIER                First 10 contracts
Other Impl. Agencies   None
Below 30,000              Natl Shopping  All Imp]. Agencies     None
3. Services
Firms          200,000 or above                                                 ($12.2)
QCBS       All Impl. Agencies     - all contracts
- full review
Less than 200,000 but 2                                         ($0.5)
50,000                        QCBS       AGETIER                - first 10 contracts - full
review, thereafter quick
review
QCBS       Other Impl. Agencies   - all contracts
- quick review
Below 50,000                QCBS/LC    AGETIER                  - first 10 contracts,
thereafter none
Other Impl. Agencies   - none
Individuals    Less than I100,000 but 2($0.5)
50,000                    Comparison of AGETIER                 first 10 contracts - full
at least 3 CVs                       review, thereafter quick
review
Other Impl. Agencies   all contracts - quick review
Below 50,000              Comparison of AGETIER                 First IO contracts - full
at least 3 CVs                       review, thereafter none
Other Impl. Agencies   None, except TOR
g         ~~~Total value of contracts subject to prior review:               US$84.7 (or 73 % of totall
contract amount)
Consultant Selection
IDA Prior Review for all Terms of References and for sole source contracts



85
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
11.   The procurement risk is low for Office du Niger, DNH, DNTP, and DNAER because of their past
experience with World Bank Procurement Guidelines. However, the procurement risk for AGETIER is
high as this new agency has no past experience with World Bank Procurement Guidelines. Several
measures will be taken to ensure adequate and satisfactory project execution: (i) staffing it with high-
quality, experienced individuals who will be trained in procurement management before project
effectiveness; (ii) starting with a small initial workload that will increase gradually in tandem with
improved procurement and project management experience; (iii) closely supervising its procurement
activities from the World Bank resident mission; (iv) carrying out a prior review of the first 10 contracts
of each type, regardless of amount; (v) carrying out post reviews of all contracts per year and throughout
the life of the project; and (vi) auditing the agency's accounts (including procurement audits) every six
months. The PCU will be procuring the initial grouped purchase of vehicles and office equipment, small
consumables (fuel, office materials, etc..) and audits. It will have a procurement specialist on it staff,
who will be trained in World Bank Procurement Methods.
12.   Considering that the bulk of the procurement is carried out by experienced agencies, i.e. close to
95%, with AGETIER only responsible for some 5% of the project activities, and that the bidding
documents for the major contracts are either prepared or are under preparation, the overall procurement
risk is clearly low.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed36:
13.   One procurement supervision mission per year for ON, DNH, and DNTP, and two procurement
supervision missions per year for AGETIER throughout the entire Phase I of the Program.
36 includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits



86
Action Plan for ON, DNTP, DNAER, DNH, PCU, and AGETIER
Areas;*f lack or hts icl:e:nt expertise<   >Action,proposed                                                 Pca4.sro n e ndictor .>
ON, DNTP
1. The  staff  is  familiar  with  the  1. Staff will be closely monitored and facilitated in  1.1 The staff has produced at least one bidding document for works
preparation  of bidding  documents,     producing   acceptable  documents  during   a       and goods, and one request for proposals for consultant
requests for proposals, and bid/proposal  probationary period, and will attend more training.  services, within 3 months, and a bid/proposal evaluation report
evaluation reports in respect to Malian                                                     - within 6 months of sufficient quality.
regulations and to Bank's rules; it has
attended training sessions on Bank's                                                    1.2 Staff with acceptable qualifications have attended adequate
procedures, but needs to be monitored,                                                      training sessions.
specifically for bid/proposal evaluation
and contract award
2. The staff is not familiar with the  2. Staff will be closely monitored and guided in  2.  Updated procurement plan is produced every 6 months by the
procurement planning and procurement    making periodic updates (every 6 months) of the     staff; the procurement plan is done for the rest of the program,
filing.                                 procurement plan  drawn  during  the appraisal      and all matters are filed.
mission, and in putting together the procurement
plan for the rest of the program, and in correctly
filing all procurement matters.
3. The staff is familiar with contract  3. Staff will be closely monitored and guided in  3.  At least, one summary report acceptable is produced within 12
management, but need to be monitored       producing  execution  summaries  of  contract       months by the staff, demonstrating that both the client and the
execution and to ensure at least that i) contracts are  contractor/consultant have carried out their obligations in
executed in accordance with the specifications/TDR  accordance with the provisions of the contract.
and within contract period, and ii) payments are
made on time.
DNAER, DNH, DNACPN
1. The staff is familiar with the preparation  1. Staff will be closely monitored and guided in  1.1 The staff has produced at least one bidding document for works
of bidding  documents, requests  for    producing   acceptable  documents  during   a         and goods, and one request for proposals for consultant
proposals and bid/proposals evaluation   probationary period, and to attend more training.    services within 6 months, and a bid/proposal evaluation report
reports in respect to Malian regulation, not                                                  within 12 months, of sufficient quality.
with the Bank's rules, but has attend a
training session on Bank's procedures.                                                    1.2 Staff with acceptable qualification have attended adequate
training sessions.



87
Areas-of lack or insufficient expertise,                 Action proposedPromneIfktr
2.7 The- stf  sntaiirwit`h_t_h_e 2. Staff will be closely monitored and guided in making  2.  Updated procurement plan is produced every 6 months by the
procurement planning and procurement    periodic updates (every 6 months) of the procurement      staff-, the procurement pian is done for the rest of the program,
filing.                                   plan drawn during the appraisal mission, and in         and all matters are filed.
putting together the procurement plan for the rest of
the program, and in correctly filing all procurement
matters.
3. The staff is not familiar with contract 3. Staff will be closely monitored and guided in  3.  At least, one summary report acceptable is produced within 18
management                                producing execution summaries of contract execution     months by the staff, demonstrating that both the client and the
and to ensure at least that i) contracts are executed in cotaoronuathveariduthirblginsn
accordance with the specifications/TDR and within      aconrdantrcnswithnthearvis arionfted  onttheract. atoni
contract period, and ii) payments are made on timeacodnewtthprvsnsftecnrc.
Project Implementation Unit
1. Nobody is famniliar with the preparation   1.1I Recruit and train competent staff.          1.1  The staff has produced at least one bidding document for
of bidding  documents  requests  for                                                              works and goods, and one request for proposals for consultant
proposals, and bid/proposals evaluation                                                          services within 6 months, and a bid/proposal evaluation report
reports.                                1.2 Staff is exposed to producing documents during a     within 12 months, of sufficient quality.
probation period.                                 1.2 Staff with acceptable qualification has attended adequate
training sessions.
2. The staff is not familiar with  the  2. Staff will be closely monitored and guided in making   2.  Updated procurement plan is produced every 6 months by the
procurement planning and procurement       periodic  updates  (every  6  months)  of  the         staff;, the procurement plan is done for the rest of the program,
filing.                                    procurement plan  drawn  during  the appraisal        and all matters are filed.
mission, and in putting together the procurement
plan for the rest of the program, and in correctly
filing all procurement matters..
3. The staff is not familiar with contract  3. Staff will be closely monitored and guided in  3.  At least, one summary report acceptable is produced within 18
management                                 producing  execution  summaries  of  contract         months by the staff, demonstrating that both the client and the
execution and to ensure at least that i) contracts are  contractor/consultant have carried out their obligations in
executed in accordance with the specifications/TDR    accordance with the provisions of the contract.
and within contract period, and ii) payments are
made on time
AGETIER



88
1. The staff to be recruited will have to be  1. Staff will be closely monitored and facilitated in  1.1 The staff has produced at least one bidding document for works
familiar with the preparation of bidding    producing   acceptable  documents  during   a    and goods, and one.request for proposals for consultant services
documents, requests for proposals and    probationary period, and will attend more training.  within 3 months, and a bid/proposal evaluation report within 6
bid/proposal evaluation reports in respect                                                   months, of sufficient quality.
to Malian regulation, but may not be
familiar with the Bank's rules.                                                          1.2 Staff with acceptable qualification has attended adequate
training sessions.
2. The staff will not necessarily be familiar 2. Staff will be closely monitored and guided in making  2.  Updated procurement plan is produced every 6 months by the
with   procurement   planning   and    periodic updates (every 6 months) of the procurement  staff; the procurement plan is done for the rest of the program,
procurement filing.                     plan drawn during the appraisal mission, and in      and all matters are filed.
putting together the procurement plan for the rest of
the program, and in correctly filing all procurement
matters..
3. The staff will need to be familiar with  3. Staff will be closely monitored and guided in  3.  The second summary report is produced by the staff in an
contract management, but will need to   producing execution summaries of contract execution  acceptable shape, demonstrating that both the client and the
attend customized training.             and to ensure at least that i) contracts are executed in  contractor/consultant have carried out their obligations in
accordance with the specifications/TDR and within   accordance with the provisions of the contract.
contract period, and ii) payments are made on time



89
Disbursements
14.    The first phase of the Credit would be disbursed over a period of five years. This is consistent
with the disbursement profile of rural projects in Mali and the efficiency of the existing executing
agencies. The streamlined AGETIER procurement procedures would allow more efficiency for
implementing the concerned sub-components. A disbursement schedule appears in Table C.
15.    The IDA Credit would be disbursed against the following categories:
Table 6C: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
Exp,enditure Category                        Amount In US$             'Finanicing
million              Percentage
1. Civil Works                                                             90%
1 .a MDR - Part B of the Project                 20.0
l.b MDR - Other                                   16.5
l.c Office du Niger                               34.5
2. Goods                                                         100% of foreign
2.a MDR                                            1.7           expenditures, 90%
2.b OFFICE DU NIGER                                0.5           of local expenditures
3. Consultants                                                             100%
3.a MDR                                           14.8
3.b OFFICE DU NIGER                                9.0
4. Grants/subloans                                 0.4                    100%
5. Operating Costs *                                                       80%
5.a MDR                                            5.0
5.b OFFICE DU NIGER                                0.2
5.c AGETIER                                        0.7
6. Refinancing PPF                                 1.3                    100%
7. Unallocated                                    10.5
Total Project Costs                              115.1
* The term "operating costs" means:
(i) for the purposes of Category 5. (a) the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation (excluding
those related to the components managed by Office du Niger and support to AGETIER), audits, management and
monitoring, including office supplies, administrative support, communication and utility services, travel and supervision
costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service;
(ii) for the purposes of Category 5. (b) the incremental expenses incurred on account of implementation of Project activities
managed by Office du Niger, including monitoring and evaluation, office supplies, administrative support, communication
and utility services, travel and supervision costs and Office du Niger audits; and
(iii) for the purposes of Category 5. (c) audit costs of AGETIER, and its overhead costs as follows: (A) until December 31,
2001: costs pertaining to the total of administrative overhead, including office supplies, administrative support,
communication and utility services, travel and supervision, fuel and lubricants and salaries of staff appointed in agreement
with IDA; (B) until December 31, 2002: costs pertaining to travel and supervision, fuel and lubricants and salaries of staff
appointed in agreement with IDA; (C) until December 31, 2003: costs pertaining to travel and supervision and salaries of
staff appointed in agreement with IDA; and (D) until December 31, 2004: only costs pertaining to salaries of staff appointed
in agreement with IDA.



90
Special Accounts
16.   In order to facilitate project implementation, the Government will open two Special Accounts in a
local commercial bank, one to be operated by the PCU (Special Account A) and the other by ON
(Special Account B). Special Account A will have an authorized allocation of FCFAF 1.5 billion, and
Special Account B will have an authorized allocation of CFAF 700 million. The authorized allocations
will cover four months of eligible expenditures excluding payments under large civil works contracts
which will be effected directly to the beneficiaries. Replenishment applications will be submitted
monthly by the PCU and ON. The applications will include details clearly identifying the amounts
withdrawn for each beneficiary from the special account.
Advance Accounts
17.   Thirty day advance accounts will be allowed under the project for DNAER and DNH directorates
as long as the PCU will be able to:
(a) maintain proper books of account for the project funds;
(b) allocate funds to the various regional directorates based on budgets and cash flow plans approved
by the PCC;
(c) monitor the use of decentralized funds by the various regional directorates and obtain acceptable
accounting from each of these locations on a regular basis;
(d) prepare and submit regular replenishment requests to the World Bank together with appropriate
supporting documents as evidence of receipt and utilization of IDA and government funds.
Counterpart Funds, Project Accounts
18.   The government will open in a financial institution one other account, the Project Account, in
which it will deposit its contributions to the project, to be managed by the PCU and used exclusively to
meet expenditures under the project. Government will make an initial deposit of CFAF 300 million to the
Project Account. The establishment of this account will be a condition of Credit Effectiveness. The
project account will be operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
19.   All replenishment requests would be fully documented except for: (a) contracts of less than
US$300,000 equivalent for civil works, US$150,000 equivalent for goods, US$100,000 equivalent for
consulting firm services, and US$50,000 equivalent for individual consulting services; and (b) operating
costs which may be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting
documentation for SOEs would be retained by AGETIER, ON and PCU for review by periodic IDA
supervision missions and external auditors.
Financial Management
Accounting and Auditing
20.   The PCU will be an entity distinct from the coordinating Ministry to assure a close and
independent control over sub components executed by DNH, DNAER, DNTP and their regional
directorates, and monitoring of those implemented by ON and AGETIER. The PCU will include a small



91
finance unit with an accountant and will be supported by a local accounting firm. Thie establishment of a
good financial management system acceptable to IDA and the recruitment of a qualified accountant is a
condition for credit effectiveness. The PCU will have its own separate accounts. A firm has been
recruited to assist the Borrower in setting up a reliable and efficient financial management system in the
PCU (and in AGETIER). It's mission comprises: preparing administrative, budgetary, accounting and
financial procedures, assisting the Borrower in choosing and installing the software; and supporting the
PCU (and AGETIER) in financial and accounting management during the first year of the project. A
detailed financial and accounting procedures manual with an internal financial control, including an
appropriate accounting plan, will be completed before Credit Effectiveness.
21.   Similarly, AGETIER will have a financial and accounting unit and will be supported by a local
accounting firm during the first year. The establishment of a good financial management system and the
recruitment of qualified financial and accounting staff is a condition for Credit Effectiveness. The
accounts will be maintained in accordance with sound and internationally recognized accounting
principles and practices satisfactory to IDA
22.   ON has a satisfactory financial and accounting unit. However, it will be strengthened during the
project with better performing computer equipment, revising its procedures manual, and refresher
training. ON would have its own special account.
23.   Financial reports produced by the PCU, ON and AGETIER accounting systems would include:
(a) financial statements expressed in CFAF (drawn up in accordance with generally accepted Malian
accounting practices); (b) financial statements for the project in US$, and in Special Drawing Rights; (c)
reports on the Special Accounts; and (d) statements of expenditures. Reports will be produced in
accordance with accounting principles acceptable to IDA (International Accounting Norms are acceptable
to IDA). Financial statements would be produced each year with the exception of AGETIER which will
prepare its statements every six months. Project financial statements would be prepared every three
months. The PCU will consolidate the financial reports with its own financial statements reflecting the
financial performance and position of the project, by each beneficiary and as a whole.
24.    An independent auditor's opinion and report satisfactory to IDA on such statements and reports
will be provided within three months for the half yearly report, and within six months of the close of the
fiscal year for the annual reports. Special accounts, project accounts, and SOEs would be included in the
audits and specifically addressed in the audit reports. The auditor's report would also include a statement
on the adequacy of the accounting systems and the internal controls, the reliability of SOEs as a basis for
credit disbursements, and compliance with financial covenants. The foregoing accounting, financial
reporting, and auditing arrangements should provide adequate and timely information to IDA for project
supervision. The audits will be submitted to the PCU, the donors and IDA. Auditors acceptable to IDA,
with TORs acceptable to IDA and in accordance with the Bank document "General Accounting Manual -
Financial Information and Audits - FARAH" dated January 1995, would be appointed prior to credit
effectiveness. Project accounts, AGETIER and ON would be audited by the same auditor.
Monitoring and Reporting
25.   The World Bank is introducing an initiative to change loan administration in the World Bank
Group financed projects, the Financial Management Initiative (FMI). This initiative assists projects to
put in place sound financial management, procurement, and output monitoring systems. Where
appropriate, if these systems are in place, disbursements may be made on the basis of agreed quarterly



92
Project Management Reports (PMR) rather than on the basis of individual invoices or statements of
expenditure.
26.    During Phase I, the project will not be considered as being in full compliance with the FMI for
purposes of disbursements. The following action plan has been established in order to make the project
ready for FMI within 18 months of Credit Effectiveness.
Action Plan for setting up an accounting and financial management system in preparation for FMI
Initial Phase
System
Draft Procedures Manual                         31/07/00       Consultant
Comments of the draft                           11/08/00       Government/IDA
Final Version                                   18/08/00       Consultant
Staff Training on the Manual                    21/08/00       Consultant
Accounting and Management Software
Choice of Software                              30/06/00       Consultant/Coordination
Installation                                    30/07/00       Consultant
Training                                        15/08/00       Consultant
Recruitment process of Auditors Firm                              Government
Finalize bidding documents;                     22/05/00
Seek IDA no objection;                          26/05/00
Publish bids;                                   05/06/00
Receive and evaluate bids and select winners;   31/07/00
Seek IDA on selected winners;                   07/07/00
Appointment of External Auditors                31/07/00
Final Phase
Introduction of FMI
Evaluation of the system                        18 months*    IDA
Start of FMI                                    18 months*     PCU
Pffic du N                 ][C; bs' p tes ''=p7 -I OW  W       s       -
System
Updating the Procedures Manual                  31/07/00       Consultant
Assessment of staff training needs              15/07/00       Consultant/Direction ON
Staff training regarding the revised manual     15/08/00       Consultant
Introduction of FMI
Evaluation of the system                        18 months      IDA
Start of FMI                                    18 months      ON
* After effectiveness.
27.    ON will provide data on the component under its management within 15 days of the end of each
quarter to the PCU. PCU will consolidate this information with its own data on the centrally implemented
components to produce quarterly progress reports which will then be submitted to the PCC, IDA, and
other donors. The progress reports will cover the status of each contract, the status and timing of



93
procurement for each contract, implementation of TA, studies and training activities, commitments
against funds budgeted for subprojects, the status of all bank accounts, etc.
28.   Special monitoring mechanisms will be put in place (and updated periodically as need arises) to
assess the effectiveness of project agreements and performance indicators shown in Annex 1. A detailed
mid-term review of the project would occur before the end of the second year after credit effectiveness
and another review before the end of the fifth year. This would be a joint exercise of the Government,
beneficiaries, executing agencies, IDA and other donors, and other stakeholders, designed as an
assessment of past experience and a forward-looking analysis of any changes or remedial actions that
may be needed to achieve the program objectives. The review will cover the project components,
implementation arrangements, financing mechanisms, and triggers including specifically:   (a)
effectiveness of institutional arrangements, mainly the set up and performance of the beneficiary
contribution mechanisms in irrigation and rural water supply; (b) effectiveness of private sector
participation and performance in managing the OM in irrigation and in water supply; (c) timeliness and
efficiency of procurement of works and consultancy services; (d) effectiveness and impact of TA at the
central and local levels; (e) achievement of physical implementation of infrastructure; and (f)
effectiveness of motorized cultivation. In addition to this review, annual joint implementation reviews
will be carried out on the basis of the monitoring and performance indicators.



94
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
MALI: National Rural Infrastructure Project
Timne taken to prepare the project (months)                                    49
First Bank mission (identification)                 06/13/1996              06/13/1999
Appraisal mission departure                         02/22/1999              02/07/2000
Negotiations                                         09/21/1999             05/23/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                        11/15/2000
Prepared by: Ministry of Rural Development and Water
Preparation assistance:
PPF: Q0910:                                       $500,000
PPF:Q0911                                         $750,000
PHRD TF025446                                     $400,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Eustacius    Betubiza       AFTR3           Agricultural Economist (Task Team Leader)
Abdelghani   Inal           AFTT2           Sr. Highway Engineer
Yao          Badjo          AFTU2           Sr. Sanitary Engineer
Aubert       Zohore         AFTT2           Sr. Financial Analyst/Feeder Roads
Peter        Akari          TWUWA           Sanitary Engineer
Francois     Gadelle        AFTR3           Sr. Irrigation Engineer
Yeyande      Sangho         AFMML           Agricultural Economist
Agadiou      Dama           AFMML           Agricultural Services Specialist, based in Bamako
Bernard      Abeille        AFTQK           Sr. Procurement Specialist
Siaka        Bakayoko       AFTQK          Financial Analyst
Cheick T.A.  Traore         AFMML           Procurement Specialist, based in Bamako
Abdoulaye    Coulibaly      AFMML           Financial Specialist, based in Bamako
Hans         Wabnitz         LEGAF          Country Counsel
Wendy        Wakeman        PREMGE         Community Development Specialist
Arnaud       Desmarchelier  AFTT2           Rural Transport Specialist
Wolfgang     Chadab         LOAAF           Disbursement Officer
Robert       Robelus        AFTEI           Sr. Environmental Specialist
Dan          Aronson        AFTII           Pr. Social Scientist
Naima        Hasci          AFTII           Social Scientist
Claudio      Gregorio       FAO             Irrigation Engineer
Amadou       Soumaila        FAO            Irrigation Engineer
Didier       Cornet         FAO (Consult)  Agronomist
Alexandra    Goffin         AFTR3           Language Program Assistant, COSTAB



95
Annex 8: Documents in Project File*
Mali: National Rural Infrastructure Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Economic and Financial Analysis
C. Other
1. Etude environnementale du Programme National d'Infrastructures Rurales (PNIR), Aspects sociaux
- I. Cisse, Bamako, 2000
2. Etude environnementale du Programme National d'Infrastructures Rurales (PNIR), Bois-energie et
desertification, - Maiga et Z. Sanogo, Bamako, 2000
3. Etude environnementale du Programme National d'Infrastructures Rurales (PNIR), Elevage - M. A.
Djiteye, Bamako, 2000
4. Etude environnementale du Programme National d'Infrastructures Rurales (PNIR), Gestion de 1 'eau
-C. M. Haidara, Bamako, 2000
5. Etude environnementale du Programme National d'Infrastructures Rurales (PNIR), Institutions-
N'F. Kone, Bamako, 2000
6. Etude environnementale du Programme National d'Infrastructures Rurales (PNIR), Recasement- A.
Diallo, Bamako, 2000
7. Etude environnementale du Programme National d'Infrastructures Rurales (PNIR), Sante publique -
Dr. Godefroy Coulibaly, Bamako, 2000
8. Etude socio-economique selon le genre des PNIR et PASAOP - S. Proulx et M. Diallo, Bamako,
2000
9. Etude d'Impact Environnemental du Projet de Rehabilitation du Casier de Sokolo- Sen&-Conseils,
Bamako, 1999
10. Etude d'Impact Environnemental et Social du Projet d'Amenagement du Perimetre de M'Bewani,
Bloc C. Office du Niger-Louis Berger, Bamako, 1999
11. Evaluation Environnementale du Projet Eau Potable et Assainissement dans le cadre du PNIR -
Kayes, Koulikoro, Sikasso et Segou -Dr. S. Keita, Bamako, 1999



96
12. Etude Environnementale de la Zone de l'Office du Niger (Financement: Cooperation Neerlandaise), 7
rapports, Bamako, 1999
13. Etude du Schema Directeur d'amenagement pour la Zone de l'Office du Niger -
SOGREAH/BCEOM/BETICO (Financement: Agence Fran9aise de Developpement), Paris, 1999
14. Programme d'Experimentations en Mecanisation Agricole dans la zone de l'Office du Niger -
Djibril Aw et Ahmadou Oumar Toure, Bamako, 2000
15. Conditions d'Installation des Exploitants Prives sur le Perimetre Test de Koumouna- Aly Diallo
(Agro-Economiste), Ahmadou Toure (Juriste/Notaire), Mamadou N'Diaye (Ingenieur
Commercial), Brehima S. Diallo (Ingenieur de Construction Civile), Bainako, 1999.
16. Manuel de mise en ceuvre du Programme National des Infrastructures Rurales, 2000
17. Manuel de procedures de I'AGETIER - Seydou Idani, Mars
18. Projet de rehabilitation du casier de Sokolo (5 91 lha), Rapport d'avant projet detaille-
AHT/BETEC, Mars 1999.
19. Projet d'amenagement du perimetre de M'Bewani III (2 300 ha), Evaluation preliminaire- FAO,
Juillet 1998.
20. Etudes d'harmonisation des Approches Participatives - BETICO, Octobre 1999
21. Strategie Nationale de l'Irrigation, Fevrier 2000
22. Strategie Nationale de Developpement de l'Alimentation en eau potable et de l'Assainissement en
milieu rural et semi - urbain, Decembre 1999
*Including electronic files.



97
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MALI: National Rural Infrastructure Project
Original Amount in USS    Difference between expected
Millions         and actual dlsbursementsa
Project ID   FY    Borrower              Purpose               IBRD    IDA    Cancel.  Undleb.   Orig       Frrn
Rev'd
P001751   1994   Mali        AG. RESEARCH                       0.00   0.00    0.00     3.97      3.60     0.44
P001755   1995   Mali        AGRO-PROCESSING TRD                0.00   6.00    0.00     1.98      1.98     2.05
P035617   1998   Mali        GRASSROOTS HUN/POVT                0.00   21.50   0.00     16.45    2.33      0.00
P058770   2000   Mali        LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS        0.00   3.80    0.00     3.77      0.00     0.00
P040652   1999   Mali       INTEG HEALTH SEC INV                0.00   40.00   0.00     37.45    15.85    0.00
P001738   1997   Mali        IRRIG PROMOTION                    0.00   4.20    0.00     3.00      1.25     0.00
P001745   1992   Mali        NATURAL RES. MGMT                  0.00   20.40   0.00     1.19      0.77     -1.25
P001747   1993   Mali        PRIVATE SECTOR ASSIS               0.00   12.00   0.00     4.91      5.58     0.00
P046651   1997   Mali        REGIONAL POWER                     0.00   17.10   0.00     11.01    5.88      0.00
P034617   1996   Mali        SELINGUE REHAB.                    0.00   27.30   0.00     7.03      7.05     0.00
P001730   1994   Mali        TRANSPORT SECTOR                   0.00   65.00   0.00     17.58    13.00    1.32
P001750   1997   Mali        URBAN DEVT & DECENTR               0.00   80.00   0.00     64.32    24.04    0.00
P001746   1996   Mali        VOCATIONAL EDUC TRNG               0.00   13.40   0.00     7.16      4.77     0.00
Total  0.00   330.70  0.00     179.82   86.10    2.56



98
MALI
STAThEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
30-May-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                           IIFC
FY Approval            Company           Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996               AEF GGG            0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994           AEF Hotel Bamako       0.37    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/99              Randgold          0.00    2.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.03    0.00    0.00
1997                SEF 3T            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997            SEF Grand Hotel       1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                SEMOS            17.50    4.80    0.00    12.50   17.50    4.80    0.00    12.50
1992/97              SOMISY            8.00    0.00    0.00    12.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    12.00
Total Portfolio:        27.97    6.83    0.00   24.50   27.97    6.83    0.00    24.50
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval                 Company              Loan    Equity   Quasi  Partic
1996                    AEF GGG               0.00     386.81    0.00    0.00
1991                   AEF-BOAM               0.00      0.00    229.66   0.00
1997                    BEN&Co              5146.86    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999                  Equipbail Mali          0.00      0.00    71.29    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:   5146.86   386.81   300.95   0.00



99
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MALI: National Rural Infrastructure Project
Sub-                                               1 011/98
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Mall    Africa  income       Development diam ond'
1997
Popualation. mid-yeeri(millions)                     10.3      614     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Alas method, US$)                    '260     :500'      350
GNP (Atlas nmethod US$ billons)                      2.7       309       722
Average annualgwowth. 1991497
Population (X)                                       2:8        2.7      2.1
Labor force (%)           .26                                   2.6      2.3      GNP                             Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (tatest year avaIlable, 1991-97)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of populatiora below national poverty /ne)  63        -
Urban population (% of Iota/ populabon)               28        32        28
Life expectancy at birth '(years) .                   50        52        59
Infantmortality (per 1000 live births)               118        90        78
Child nealnutriltion 'X of children under 5)          31         ...      61               Access to safe water
Access to  f water (% otpopulafion)                   48        44        71
Illiteracy (X ofpopulation age 15+)                   68        43        47
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschoolage populalion)   42        75       90       -_Mali           Low-incomegroup
Male                                                51        82       100
Feinale                                             33        67        81
KeY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1S96                1997
EconomIc ratios'
GDP (iSSbtllions)                           0.89      1,7       2.7      2.5
Gross domheatic investmentIGDP              14.2    20.4       26.0     23.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP           11.7    15.0       19.3     25.4                     Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                   3 5     -1.1      10.7      13.6
Gross national savings/GCP                   2.5     5.6       15.7     16.2
Current account balance/GDP                 -9.0   -14.8      -10.3     -7.1      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                        0.1     0.7        2.2      0.8                                 Investment
Total debtWGDP                              42.2    102,6     113.5    116-3      Savings                     I
Tort debt service/exports                    5.3    20.5       19.0      10.2
Present value of debtWGDP                      .       ..     47.6
Present value of debtlexports                 ..      ..    205.8
Indebtedness
1076-86  19S7-97    1996         ?   19642
(average ennual grOwth)
GDP                                 1,0      3.2    ,  .0       6.,7     5 0,            Mali_      Lo_ icmegru
GNPpercapita                       -0'9'L    0.3      1.2       34        1.9          Mali         Low-incomegroup
Exports of goods and services       7.6    .6.7      4,6       49.2      4.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment I%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 58.4    42.4       48.1     49.2    o0
Industry                                    10.4    16.0       16.6     17.3    20x-
Manufacturing                              5.7      7.2       7.1       7.0    10
Services                                    31.1    41.6       35.3     33.5 o
Private consumption                         88.7    88.3       78.7     74.5    -10- '  2  1        4   9s     9
General govemment consumption                7.8    12.8       10.6      11.9                   0GD           GDP
Imports of goods and services               22.3    36.5      34.6      35.1          _      GDI          ,GDP
1976486  1987-97     1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  0.6      3.6       1.2       2.8    75
Industry                                     2.6      5.9       8.7     21.7    so
Manufacturing                              6.0      4.7       6.1       4.6
Services                                    -0.7      1.7       5.6       3.9    25i          
Private consumption                          1.9      1.6       5.5     -2.1
General govemment consumption                4.1      1.0       0.0      19.8      .     s2   -     -    ss   w    r7
Gross domestic investment                    2.5      5.5       4.0     -4.4
Imports of goods and services                9.8     2.1        6.6      5.9             -Exports    --.- Imports
Gross national product                       0.9     3.1        4.3      6.6
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



100
Mali
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986      1996      1997      Inflation I%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        40
Consumer prices                               ..       ..       6.5      -0.7    30
Impiclt GDP deflator                        11.0    -1.4        6.3       1.8    20
Government flnance                                                                10                 9
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                .    16.5       17.1      17.0    -10                       95   go
Current budget balance                        ..      0.8       5.1       3.8             ----GDP deflator  S.0.CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..  -10.6         -6.0     -6.4
TRADE
(USS millions)                              1976    1986       1996     1997      Export and import levels CUSS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            .      206       434      562    1.000
Cotton                                       ..      74       264       276
Gold                                         ..      47        78       201      500
Manufactures
Total imports (cit)                           ..    484         772      751       4
Food                                         ..      81       113       109           _    _ 
Fuel and energy                                      78       102       105      200
Capital goods                                       141       226       221        o
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..       74        94       78            91     93   94  95  es  97
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       77        97       88                 oExports     mimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      96        97        89
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1976    1986       1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                    112      257       514       644      0
Imports of goods and services                190      626       920      889
Resource balance                             -78    -369       -406      -245
Net income                                    -9      -25       -63       -62     - __
Net current transfers                          7      139       196       126
Current account balance                      -80    -254       -273      -160    -10
Financing items (net)                         83      215       399       178
Changes In net reserves                       -3       39      -126         3     *1 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         7       20       439      421
Conversion rate (DEC, localAUS$)           239.0   346.3      511.6    583.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(USS millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS mIllion
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         374    1,756     3.020    2,945
IBRD                                         0        0         0         0                    G:83
IDA                                         54      277       915      939
Totaldebtservice                               7       62       117        74                                  9:39
IBRD                                         0        0         0         0
IDA                                          0        3        13        14
Composition of net resource flows                                                   E: 1.2
Official grants                             39      155       217       220
Official creditors                          28      161       117       75
Privatecreditors                             1        0       115         0                  C17e
Foreign direct investment                    3       -8        23        15
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0         0                         D: 513
World Bank program
Commitments                                 26       37       181        21     A-IBRD                       E-Bilateral
Disbursements                               13       45        84       75      B - IDA    D - Other multilatersl   F - Private
Principal repayments                         0        1         7        7      C - IMF                      G - Short4emm
Netflows                                    13       44        77       67
Interest payments                            0        2         6        7
Net transfers                               13       42        71        61
Development Economics                                                                                              10/11/98



101
Annex 11: Letter of Development Policy
Mali: National Rural Infrastructure Project
I - Background
1.1 Extent of poverty
1.    Based on a poverty threshold of 77,204 CFAF in 1994, which was updated to 102,971 CFAF in
1996, the nationwide incidence of poverty in Mali was estimated at 68.8% of the population in 1994 and
at 71.6% in 1996. In urban areas, the population affected by poverty was estimated at 40.6% in 1996,
although there were large disparities between secondary cities (53%) and the district of Bamako (28%).
Rural areas were, and still are, most affected by poverty. It is therefore crucial that any national poverty
reduction strategy place particular emphasis on rural areas, which are home to three quarters of the
Malian population, and especially on the creation of basic infrastructures such as those involved in
production, physical access, and drinking water supply and sanitation (WSS). However, the development
and sustainability of these infrastructures are subject to many constraints.
1.2 Constraints to the development and sustainability of rural infrastructures
2.    Regarding irrigation, it should be noted that, of the Sahelian countries, Mali has by far the
greatest potential. With nearly 2,200,000 ha of land suitable for irrigation, of which over 1,800,000 ha
are located in the Niger River Valley alone, Mali could become the breadbasket of West Africa. Of this
vast potential, only about 240,00 ha - a little over 10% -- are equipped as irrigated perimeters, since
development in this sector is hampered by various factors, including: (i) economic and financial
constraints, such as the problem of mobilizing medium- and long-term financing for the rehabilitation
and expansion of irrigated perimeters, limited access to equipment loans and seasonal credit, and
equipment costs that vary widely but are generally very high; (ii) constraints associated with the design,
management and maintenance of hydro-agricultural installations (e.g., works execution below technical
standards, weak capacity of management committees and village associations, equipment ill-suited to
local conditions, etc.); (iii) constraints associated with the operation of perimeters (lack of quality seed,
etc.); (iv) institutional, legal and regulatory constraints (e.g., interventions that are usually
uncoordinated, inadequate outreach and support services, etc.); and (v) environmental constraints
(negative impacts on the ecosystem, soil degradation and deterioration of sanitary conditions).
3.    It should be noted that about 46% of the population does not have access to potable water. This
crucial sector is characterized by poor management and inadequate maintenance of infrastructures, the
causes of which can be summed up as follows: (i) insufficient community participation in the
identification of projects and in the choice of investments, as well as a failure to conduct systematic
assessments of a community's commitment to an operation; (ii)lack of organization and training on the
part of beneficiaries to better handle maintenance and the amortization of infrastructures; (iii) the
predominance of ill-suited materials and equipment for which spare parts are difficult to find locally, a
situation that has caused some water points to be abandoned; (iv) inadequate capacities in the local
private sector, which would otherwise be less costly to use at all stages of project implementation (for
such tasks as outreach programs and beneficiary training, technical studies and civil works); (v) lack of
capacity, at a level closer to the grassroots, to handle monitoring and technical support to communities;



102
(vi) inadequate integration of investments in potable water supply with those in sanitation and hygiene,
an integration that would allow economies of scale and facilitate proper management of installations and
the sustainability of investments.
4.     Mali's road network is of low density and in poor condition, especially in the case of rural tracks,
and this has a negative impact on the incomes of agricultural producers, as is illustrated by the great
disparities in rural transportation costs, which can range from 30 CFAF/ton/km on paved roads tolO-
500 CFAF/ton/km on tracks, depending on their condition. Due to a lack of financing, past investments
have focused essentially on a priority road network, including tracks in areas under the control of the
Offices de Development Rural (ODR), leaving vast areas and many villages completely isolated.
Adequate budgetary resources are likewise unavailable to maintain transportation infrastructures, a
situation aggravated by delays and inefficiencies that occur in the mobilization and utilization of the
resources allotted. In addition, the development of the two above-mentioned subsectors, i.e., irrigation
and WSS, is itself dependent upon the development of major roads that can link production zones to
markets and centers of consumption, and facilitate input distribution and access to social services. The
rehabilitation and expansion of the road network towards rural areas is therefore a necessity that the
Malian Government has placed among its priorities. In pursuing their development objectives, many
projects have also resulted in the construction of transportation infrastructures that are not yet
inventoried. In the meantime, the new decentralization code provides for the transfer of responsibility for
certain categories of roads to decentralized territorial collectivities (Collectivites territoriales
decentralisees, CTD). However, the entire road network will first need to be re-inventoried, and this task
has yet to be performed.
5.     Thus, the Malian Government intends to implement new strategies in the areas of irrigation, WSS
and rural transportation, in order to improve rural standards of living. These strategies, which essentially
define responsibilities and mandates in the area of rural infrastructure in the context of the ongoing
decentralization, as well as the modes of financing and implementation of investments and works
maintenance, constitute the future framework for implementation of all development activities in the
targeted subsectors. Implementation of these strategies will require a large investment program, to be
called the National Rural Infrastructure Program (Programme national d'infrastructures rurales, PNI0).
2. The National Rural Infrastructure Program (PNIR)
2.1 Main objective
6.    In order to provide the CTDs with the basic infrastructures they need to embark upon true
development, the Malian government has initiated the PNIR, which has as its primary objective the
sustainable development of rural areas and the improvement of rural living standards.
2.2 Specific objectives
7.     The specific objectives of the PNIR are:
i)  To strengthen local capacities, in both private and public sectors, in the areas of design,
programming, implementation, management and maintenance of rural infrastructures;
ii) To meet the country's rural infrastructure needs, such as the construction or rehabilitation of rural
tracks that link communities, the construction, expansion or rehabilitation of irrigated perimeters,
and the construction of water points and sanitation facilities;



103
iii) To respond as well to the country's need for a portfolio of studies, in order to allow for proper
planning of the execution of the five-year hydro-agricultural construction program already
approved.
2.3 The Program's implementation and management phases
8.    Given the need to plan for an extended financial commitment, so as to promote and achieve the
institutional strengthening that is essential to the implementation of a wider public investment program,
the PNIR will be implemented in two phases of five years each. Phase I (2001 - 2005) will emphasize
the strengthening of sectoral capacities and intervention mechanisms, and will result in particular in a
refinement of the rural transportation strategy. A first tranche of physical investments in irrigation and
WSS will also be carried out during this phase, on priority sites and in priority regions, in order to test
and perfect some of the innovative options envisaged in the context of the subsectoral strategies. Phase
II (2006 - 2010) will consolidate the achievements of the first phase, and will continue the investment
program at the national scale, in accordance with the three subsectoral strategies. It is agreed that the
rural transportation component will only involve interventions on the part of the PNIR for investments at
the community or inter-community level.
9.    The Ministry of Rural Development will be responsible for coordinating implementation of the
PNIR and will preside over a Program Coordinating Committee (Comite de coordination du programme,
CCP) created by Decree N99-084 PM-RM dated April 15, 1999. This PCC, which will be guided by a
small Coordinating Unit (Cellule de coordination), will be made up of representatives from the Ministries
of Plan, Finance, Public Works, Transportation and Environment, as well as from the CTDs, the
Association of Mayors, Chambers of Agriculture, civil society and the main governmental directorates
and technical services involved. The PCC will oversee the preparation and implementation of the PNIR,
and will ensure the coordination of interventions and overall coherence, especially were sectoral policies
are concerned.
3. Guiding principles of the PNIR
10.   The guiding objectives and principles of the PNIR, which are part of the various subsectoral
strategies, are defined below.
3.1 Irrigation subsector
3.1.1 Basic objectives
11.   The Government of Mali has adopted, as of October 13, 1999, a National Irrigation Development
Strategy (Stratigie nationale de developpement de l 'irrigation, SNDI), which has as its basic objectives:
i)  greater food security;
ii) poverty alleviation through an increase in rural incomes;
iii) improved nutritional status of the most vulnerable segments of the population, in this case women
and children;



104
iv) hard currency savings, through a reduction in food imports and greater development of
agricultural exports;
v) a decrease in internal and external migration.
3.1.2 Guiding principles
12.   In order to achieve the aforementioned goals, implementation of the SNDI will follow the
following guiding principles:
i) Redefinition of the roles of those involved in the irrigation subsector. The Government will
confine itself exclusively to coordinating the activities of the other participants and will ensure
that standards are applied properly.
ii) Greater assumption of responsibility and participation by beneficiaries in the whole process of
identifying, implementing and managing investments.
iii) Acceleration of the pace of construction, by means of an investment policy geared to greater
assumption by users of construction costs, thereby freeing up a portion of the Government's
limited resources, and relying on greater private sector participation in subsectoral investments.
This policy takes into account the different categories of hydro-agricultural installations as well as
the collective or individual mode of their use and management. Based on the beneficiaries/users'
modes of participation in investments, three categories of irrigated perimeter have been identified:
* Community perimeters, intended to put the most vulnerable populations on more secure
economic footing and which are to be built with direct beneficiary participation in the
construction work. Beneficiaries will be responsible for all work on the parcel, including
the tertiary network.
* Private perimeters, for which construction costs corresponding to the secondary and
tertiary networks and leveling will be borne entirely by the entrepreneurs involved. The
Government's intervention will be limited to construction of the primary network. At the
time of the perimeter's entry into service, those involved will be able to acquire property
ownership in accordance with applicable laws. The law stipulating the procedures for
granting property rights and the conditions under which private individuals can settle on
Office du Niger property will be signed by the Government by June 30, 2000; it set out
users' rights and responsibilities in attached specifications.  The Government will also
provide, through APROFA, the necessary technical advisory support and administrative
assistance for the promotion of individual and micro-irrigation.
* Perimeters under rental purchase agreement, on which the Government will carry out all
perimeter construction and on which farmers will settle, subject to rental/purchase
agreements, provided that they can operate them profitably and do not have their own
capital. Once the amount corresponding to the secondary and tertiary networks (the
primary network remaining the Government's responsibility) has been reimbursed, the
user will be able to acquire land title in accordance with the legal provisions in effect.



105
iv) Creation of an effective and sustainable financing mechanism. Using funds reimbursed by the
renters of perimeters under rental purchase agreements, a fund will be constituted for reinvestment
in irrigation, thus accelerating its development. The long-term vision is to set up an irrigation
development company, which would be under entirely private management and responsible for
building perimeters and obtaining reimbursements from beneficiaries/users for reinvestment in
irrigation. During the first phase of the PNIR, only pilot operations will be undertaken, in order to
ascertain the feasibility of this objective. Studies aimed at defining the statutes and structure of the
irrigation development company, including its financial and administrative set-up, contracts to be
entered into with users and the modes of recovery and use of their reimbursements, will be carried
out by December 31, 2001. The relevant terms of reference have already been drawn up.
In addition, the intention under the first phase of the PNIR is to set up a pilot irrigated perimeter at
Koumouna where farmers will settle in accordance with the new reimbursement arrangements. A
test of such limited scope obviously does not in any way justify the immediate creation of a
freestanding entity. A small unit will therefore be set up within the ON to manage this pilot
initiative. A separate entity will only be created under PNIR-11 if this approach proves satisfactory
by the end of PNIR-I.
v)  Simplification of administrative procedures for the procurement of studies and rural works. For
this purpose, an autonomous agency- AGETIER - has been created and made the delegated
contracting authority in charge of overseeing, at the request of communities desiring it, the
implementation of the various construction or rehabilitation projects on small irrigated perimeters.
vi) Involvement of national SMI/SMEs in construction works, by means of:
* a system of parceling out works (since the current system excludes local enterprises in
actual practice);
* support for the creation of artisanal enterprises for low-cost borehole and well digging, as
well as for construction and maintenance of small irrigation equipment;
vii) Emphasis on total water controL The need for intensive exploitation of Mali's irrigable potential
means that investment priorities must emphasize total water control, a technique that offers great
possibilities for diversification. During implementation of the aforementioned five-year perimeter
construction program, the PNIR-I will finance the construction of 8,700 ha of large perimeters at
the Office du Niger and 1,000 ha of small irrigated village perimeters under total water control.
Nevertheless, the Government will support and develop lowlands crops everywhere that the land
characteristics are suitable.
viii) Optimal and sustainable management of perimeters. The construction and operation policy will
be updated and efforts will be directed towards moderate cost and economically profitable
irrigation techniques that can be handled by beneficiaries and probably managed in a sustainable
manner. A study will be carried out by December 31, 2003 for this purpose. Under PNIR-I, the
Government plans to train managers responsible for the design and management of irrigated
perimeters, as well as perimeter users.
ix) Adoption, by December31 2003, of the Water and Land Tenure Codes, legal texts crucial to the
rational and equitable management of natural soil and water resources.



106
x)  Intensification and diversification of irrigated agriculture. The Government, through PASAOP,
will improve its array of advisory support services to producers' organizations, village
associations and private irrigated farmers, and will develop an effective policy for input supply
and support to new and profitable commodity streams, based on economic information.
Agriculture/livestock/environmental integration and the provision of rural advisory services by
the private sector will be promoted in order to improve the intensification and diversification of
crops.
xi) Research and experimentation in irrigation. Under PNIR-I, the Government will conduct
experiments at Office du Niger in the following areas: types of irrigation and their use, various
crops in relation to various types of irrigation, and the type of mechanization best suited to the
crops and types of irrigation selected.
3.2 Potable water supply and sanitation subsector
3.2.1 General objective
13.   The strategy for the water supply and sanitation development in rural and semi-urban areas
adopted by the Malian Government on March 22, 2000 aims to ensure the sustainable development of the
potable water and sanitation sector by providing appropriate solutions to problems associated with
financing, operating and managing the corresponding infrastructures and installations.
3.2.2 Specific objectives
14.   The objectives of the WSS subsector strategy are:
i) to fulfill actual needs for potable water and sanitation in rural and semi-urban areas, in terms of
both quantity and quality, through greater involvement of users, and to integrate WSS activities;
ii) to decentralize the decision-making process by stimulating demand for potable water systems and
sanitation facilities through social outreach campaigns, thereby allowing rural communities to
formulate projects and programs that can be implemented and that correspond to actual demands
reflecting their financial capacity;
iii) to increase the level of participation of the Government, CTDs, and users in the initial investment
in WSS infrastructure through the mobilization of internal resources;
iv) to create a legal, regulatory and fiscal framework that can improve the environment for the
management of infrastructures and the self-financing of works and equipment;
v)  to promote the local private sector and develop its level of professionalism.
3.2.2 Guiding principles
15.   In order to achieve the goals set for the subsector's development, this strategy will be
implemented in accordance with the following guiding principles:



107
i) Responsibilities of rural communities:
* Demand-driven approach. Investments in the subsector will be carried out on the basis of
requests for works expressed by rural communities after a large-scale information campaign, in
order to allow users to make a fully informed choice of equipment and technologies.
Communities will be required to contribute financially to the initial investment and to assume
all operating costs.
* Participatory approach. This approach is based on the responsible intervention of rural
communities, the Government, donors, the private sector and social intermediaries such as
NGOs.
* Program approach. On the basis of demand, sub-projects identified by communities and
validated by the CTDs will be incorporated into community, regional and national programs,
which will make it possible to allocate financial resources and ensure better coherence of the
various parties' interventions.
ii) Organizational and institutional aspects. The Government will essentially devote itself to the
various parties involved, to mediation and training, the coordination of activities, the development
and enforcement of standards and rules for implementing activities, as well as to the appropriate
arrangements - institutional, fiscal and other - needed to create an environment conducive to
interventions by the various actors in the subsector.
iii)  Financing policy for the subsector. Financing in the subsector will occur in the context of
coherent programs (community, regional or national) drawn up on the basis of the program
approach and will remain guided by the principle of the sharing of costs and responsibilities,
whatever the source and nature of the financing. Private sector participation in the financing and
management of WSS installations in rural areas will be encouraged.
iv)  Better choice of technologies. Rules governing technological choices take into account sites,
users' financial capacities, the geological and hydrogeological characteristics of the terrain and the
quality/price ratio. The technological appropriateness of the works and equipment remains the
ultimate goal in selecting options in the context of the WSS development strategy in rural and
semi-urban areas.
v) Promotion of the local private sector. Private sector intervention will be supported by means of
promotional activities conducted by the Government and donors, in application of the institutional
scheme governing the sector, and through such concrete actions as the following:
* Government disengagement from works execution and service provision;
*  Better access for the local private sector to procurement opportunities through:
- the parceling out of contracts, to the extent possible, into small lots commensurate
with the financial and technical capacities of the local private sector;
- simplification, with the agreement of other donors, of bid bond procedures through a
reduction in rates;
- introduction of a national preference clause in international competitive bidding;
- reduction of the fiscal burden on sector activities.



108
3.3 Rural transportation subsector
16.   The national rural transportation strategy currently being developed will be finalized under the
first phase of the PNIR. It deals mainly with the subsector's institutional aspects and financing, taking
into account the decentralization now underway in the interest of greater assumption of responsibility by
local populations and their involvement in the process of building and maintaining transportation
infrastructures. This strategy has the following goals:
* reduction of rural transportation costs;
* improved access to rural markets and more mobility in rural areas to facilitate trade;
* easier access to social services;
* emancipation of rural dwellers and, in short, poverty alleviation.
17.   In order to attain the objectives outlined above, the strategy will be implemented in accordance
with these guiding principles:
i) Institutional aspects:
The Government is committed to reviewing the classification of all roads, distinguishing assets
under Government authority from those for which the various CTDs are responsible, in
accordance with the basic legal texts on decentralization. The responsibilities of the various
parties involved in managing the network - Government, CTDs and ODRs-shall be clearly
defined. This provision aims to allow better coordination of activities among the various actors
involved in construction and maintenance programs for rural transportation infrastructures. The
infrastructure component of the national rural transportation strategy will deal with rural
transport infrastructures, defined as: i'any transportation infrastructures under the authority of
rural communities as these are defined by the law on decentralization >>.
In addition, and in order to support implementation of the strategy, the Government is committed
to reorganizing the National Public Works Directorate (Direction nationale des travaux publics,
DNTP), and to providing an adequate training program for entities involved in managing rural
transportation infrastructures, for which it will seek the help of its development partners.
ii) Financing of road maintenance:
Beyond the national rural transportation strategy, the Malian Government has decided to take the
necessary steps to ensure the financing of ongoing maintenance of the main network, including
rural tracks, through the creation of the Roads Authority (Autorite Routiare) whose general
administrative bylaws were adopted on April 19, 2000. In consultation with its partners, the
Government promises to present to the National Assembly a draft law pertaining thereto and to
make the Roads Authority operational before the end of this year.
The application decrees stipulating the type of organization and operation of the Roads Authority,
the level of its receipts, the ways in which the latter will be collected, and the modes of financing
and implementation of maintenance works on various road networks, will be prepared and
discussed with the various partners and adopted by the Government before the end of the year
2000.



109
3.4 Environmental aspects
18.   National environmental protection policy constitutes the framework for effective and sustainable
environmental management and planning. This policy is based upon the following principles:
i)  Equity and equality: This principle obliges anyone who undertakes activities likely to have an
environmental impact to adhere to the country's environmental laws and regulations.
ii)  Involvement, assumption of responsibility and participation, on the part of all parties involved, in
the protection, restoration and conservation of natural resources.
iii)  Prevention and caution, particularly through the monitoring and preservation/protection of
ecosystems and the environment, in order to prevent problems that can have harmful
environmental consequences, and through the development of environmental information and
education, the definition of authorized effluent discharge standards and the systematic
performance of environmental impact studies.
iv)  Internalization of the costs of environmental protection, which necessarily implies that the costs
of environmental hazards will, in impact studies, be taken into account in computing production
costs or the cost of activities that could result in some kind of harm. This is rooted in the principle
that the polluter must pay, and puts responsibility for rehabilitation on the party who contaminates
or degrades the environment or a resource.
19.   The overall objective of the national policy on environmental protection is to < ... ensure a
healthy environment and sustainable development by incorporating the environmental dimension into any
decision affecting the design, planning and implementation of policies, programs and development
activities, and by making all involved parties accountable ... o. In the context of the PNIR, the
construction of rural infrastructures will potentially involve positive and negative impacts on populations
and the environment. The Government has prepared a Social and Environmental Management Plan (Plan
de gestion environnementale et Social, PGES) aimed at attenuating negative environmental and social
impacts and enhancing positive impacts. The PGES includes actions plans for:
i)  strengthening national capacities, including those of farmers, the private sector and NGOs;
ii)  improving institutional and legal frameworks;
iii)  setting up investments in such a way as to their potential negative impacts and reinforce their
positive impacts.
20.   The Malian Government is committed to implementing the PGES as agreed with its development
partners.



110
Annex 12: Environmental and Social Management Plan
MALI: National Rural Infrastructure Project
Related to    Institutional  Strengthen the Capacity of the Services of the Ministry of Environment to enable them to supervise the implementation of the  200,000    NRIP/DNACPN
NRIP project               Actions of the Socio-Environment Project Component of the NRIP (a Memorandum of Understanding will be signed with the
as a whole                 Ministry of Environment for this purpose).
Contract renown international and national experts on a demand driven basis to provide advice on the implementation of the    200,000    NRIP/DNACPN
NRIP Socio-Environment Project Component.
Selection criteria for Social Intermediaries for implementation of the NRIP activities will include (i) the ability to work closely  PM  NRIP
and appropriately with both men and women, and (ii) knowledge of local society and production systems.
Project monitoring and other reporting for all activities will be disaggregated on all appropriate criteria by gender  PM  NRIP
Regulatory   Provide Technical and Methodological Support to implement the National Action Plan for Integrated Water Resources  1,300,000   NRIP/DNH
Management.
Related to ON  Institutional  Strengthen the Capacity of the Service for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Office du Niger to (i) manage the implementation  360,000    ON
large scale                of the Actions of the Social and Environmental Action Plan in collaboration with the principal Government Agencies, NGOs
irrig. dev.                and the private sector; and (ii) to disseminate the lessons leamned in the ON to the small-scale irrigation.
Strengthen the management capacity of agricultural professional women and youth organizations to participate in  65,000  ON/APCAM
infrastructure management.
Through PASAOP, stimulate the increase in recruitment of female agricultural extension agents, so that 25% of the yearly  PM  ON
vacancies are filled by women in 2005.
Regulatory   Ensure that contracts with construction contractors include appropriate environmental and social protection clauses, so that (a)  20,000  NRIP/DNACPN
they comply with project environmental guidelines, (b) collaborate with local populations and ON and project staff in the
design of worker housing, administrative and storage facilities such that "temporary" facilities can be transferred to appropriate
local uses at the completion of the works, and (c) provide all workers and staff with STD and AIDS awareness training.



111
m Doco      Tye of        'Aln Xfoi   vineThoe                               *                                   ;                                 I  .
Ea~o pofnXt   - ctLau   *                                                             v                                                . -  .....................l.... .s .  ....... .v.. .X-v-.  ;.Es>
Studies      Conduct a drainage system study in the ON drainage area.                                                  150,000    ON
Analyses/
Follow-up    Establish a baseline on soil salinity/sodicity in the ON irrigated perimeters that covers the entire irrigated system, and design    60,000  ON
pilot        and implement a strategy for long-term monitoring covering each site at appropriate intervals.
investments
Prepare an action plan to address woodland depletion/production in the ON zone of influence, based on community driven  30,000  ON
plans in connection with PGRN, including especially settlements that are growing through voluntary in-migration.
As part of compensatory actions for impacts by the NRIP on natural habitat, prepare an action plan to protect biodiversity in   50,000  ON
the ON zone and its zone of influence (e.g. through establishment of certain protected areas).
Evaluate downstream impacts on ecosystems and communities of the Office du Niger water off-take in the Niger River,  PM  ON
especially during the dry season and recommend mitigation measures to maintain existing ecosystems and fisheries and reduce
impacts on communities and irrigation systems downstream (e.g. establishment of a mandatory environmental and social
minimum flow).
Design and carry out a groundwater quality and quality management and monitoring program in the ON area, including and    70,000  NRIP/DNH
provide recommendations for siting of wells and borehole, and the overall use of groundwater and its management.
Support the ongoing IPM activity in the ON, which is supported by the FAO and especially disseminate the best practices for  420,000    ON
IPM in the entire ON area.
Review prior and ongoing studies and actions with respect to the environmental and economic impact of granivorous birds,    90,000  NRIP/DNAMR
and devise and implement a pilot action plan based on prior successful results in bird control or on new appropriate control
technologies.
Review prior and ongoing studies and actions with respect to the control of water hyacinth and other aquatic pests, and devise  80,000  NRIP/ON
and implement a pilot action plan based on established results or on new and/or appropriate technologies.
Prepare a livestock management action plan to integrate and manage livestock numbers as projected under the new conditions 400,000    ON/DNAER
in the zone brought about by project activities and spontaneous and induced impacts in the ON zone: (i) undertake priority
actions in the ON irrigation area and in the surrounding areas in phase I of the NRIP, such as participatory land use
zoning/planning, information and awareness creation (see action ....), participatory planning and establishment and clear
marking of livestock trails and corridors, elaboration of irrigation development schemes and plans, which integrate livestock,
livestock watering points, establishment of fodder banks of agricultural by-products and dung, establishment of parking places
for livestock within the ON system; and (ii) in Phase 11 of the NRIP implement the participatory developed plans such as the
community driven livestock management plans for the areas of influence of the ON, including the livestock for the sedentary
pastoralists, the transhumance livestock and the livestock of the irrigators, management of the integrated livestock-irrigation
systems, fodder banks, commercialization, information and awareness creation.



112
Execute the proposed Resettlement Plan proposed for the project in the light of (a) the voluntary moves proposed by  800,000  ON
inhabitants of the four primary villages affected by the project, (b) the anticipated in-migration of members of other villages'
seeking residential/homestead sites near the irrigated areas they will be allocated, and (c) adjusting the tentative zoning
proposed in the land use management section of the "Schema Directeur" to enable appropriate and participatory siting and
social/physical infrstructure for the new arrivals into the project areas
Following up on the recommendations of the Schema Directeur and the activities of other projects intervening in the project    150,000  ON
zone, formulate and execute pilot activities to diversify incomes for project zone inhabitants. For example (a) the pursuit of on
and off-farm innovation in agricultural production and processing, and (b) the promotion of access to off-farm income
opportunities.
Carry out an socio-economic study and identify the needs and constraints of smallholders and rural immigrants and reach a  30,000  ON
consensus on how the land should be managed and recommend new procedures and conditions of access to land for vulnerable
groups, rural credit, agricultural inputs and other services.
Execute a study to update level of payment for the Water Tax.                                                  100,000    ON
Investments  Define needs and encourage the accessing of health facilities and programs under the National Health strategy, encouraging    60,000  NRIP/DNSP
especially the newly enlarged and resettled communities around the irrigated perimeters to participate in these demand-driven
actions (a Memorandum of Understanding will be signed with the Ministry of Health for this purpose).
Ensure that special health monitoring (e.g. epidemiological surveys) and control activities (e.g. mass treatments for bilharzia   50,000  NRIP/INRSP
and promotion of impregnated mosquito bednets with non-toxic pesticides), especially with respect to malaria and
schistosomiasis, are undertaken in the irrigated areas created, rehabilitated or extended under the project
Training     Provide staff of NGOs, Malian consulting firms, and local government agencies with short-term level training programs on key  120,000    ON
and          issues such as irrigation water management, environmental and socio-economic impact analysis, and environmental health.
Education
Organize training workshops for farmers leaders on irrigation water management and ensure balanced gender participation  120,000  ON
Introduce modules on environment and environmental health issues (including HIV/STDS awareness) into the continuing  120,000  ON
education of extension staff, school teachers and teachers of the basic literacy programs, and the chiefs of the functional
alphabetization programs in the ON area.
In the context of the PASAOP, provide grants to facilitate student research in practical problems and issues facing the ON and  PM  ON
DNAER. This would fit in a strategy for identifying talented individuals for new staff positions and generating broader
Malian knowledge of the ON, by linking to Malian higher educational institutions. Ensure that research projects selected are
operationally oriented and serve the diversity of stakeholder interests, especially those within the farming communities
themselves.



113
Stakeholder  Develop public information and awareness campaigns for all stakeholders in the livestock sector about environmentally and    90,000  ON/DNAMR
consultation  socially sustainable livestock management practices based on the results of the participatory developed livestock management
and public   action plan (see "Studies" below).
awareness
Conduct water safety (quality of potable water) and public health campaigns (water-bome diseases, HlV/AIDS and STDs) for    60,000  NRIP/DNSP/ON
ON inhabitants through a cascading education system by involving local govemment agencies, local leaders and extension
services, ensuring gender participation in the campaigns.
Include short information sessions/pamphlets promoting HIV/AIDS and STD awareness, whenever possible in NRIP-  60,000    NRIP/DNSP/ON
sponsored training workshops and public awareness campaigns.
Related to    Institutional  Strengthen the Capacity of DNACPN and AGETIER at local level to screen, prepare TORs, supervise, and monitor  PM        NRIP
Small-scale                implementation of Social and Environmental Assessments in irrigation and water supply.
irrigation
development
Include environmental and social criteria, including gender issues, in the selection and the preparation process for small-scale   PM  NRIP/DNAER
irrigation perimeters
Provide women in the small-scale perimeter areas with support for investment activities and management capacity building,  300,000    NRIP/DNAMR
promoting income generating activities, for example in investment in agricultural and non-agricultural income activities.
In the context of the PASAOP, encourage the recruitment of female extension agents, so that in the year 2005, 25% of the  PM  PASAOP
yearly extension service vacancies are filled by women and women agents are available for service in the small-scale irrigated
areas.
Recommend that seats be reserved for women on all water user associations and other community based production groups.    PM  NRIP/DNAMR
Reserve ten percent (I10%) of the funding for small-scale perimeters for accessing by women's groups, retuming such reserved  PM  NRIP
funds to the general pool if they are not used.
Regulatory   Ensure that construction contractors (a) comply with project environmental guidelines, and (b) provide all workers and higher PM  NRIP/AGETIER/
level staff with STD and HIV/AIDS awareness training.                                                                    NNACPN/DNAE
Studies /    Conduct perimeter-specific Enviromnental, Social and Gender Assessments, with the participation of the population in  40,000  NRIPIDNAER
Analyses     agreement with the Law no: 99-189/P-RM of July 5, 1999, which establishes the EA process in Mali, and for which the
Ministry of Environment is responsible.



114
Prepare a social analysis of vulnerable groups, of women in particular, to determine how these vulnerable groups can best  40,000  NRIP/DNAER
benefit from improved rural infrastructure and to prepare an action plan to facilitate women's rights to land in the small-scale
irrigation systems, based on study of the good practice and "lessons learned" in the small-scale irrigation area
Training     Conduct gender sensitivity workshops for male and female leaders of local community groups who benefit from the small-    120,000    NRIP/DNAMR
and         scale irrigation systems, members of the management committees, with a view to ensuring that there is a robust participation
Education    by women in the small-scale irrigation projects proposed and that the funds set aside for women's group investments is fully
utilized
Provide staff of NGOs, Malian consulting firms, and local government agencies with short-term certificate-level training
programs on key issues such as irrigation water conservation, environmental and socio-economic impact analysis, and  150,000    NRIP/DNAER
environmental health, Social and Environmental Assessment, Gender Analysis, Project Monitoring and Evaluation.
Investments  Ensure that special health monitoring (e.g. epidemiological surveys) and control activities (e.g. mass treatments for bilharzia   50,000  NRIP/INRSP
and promotion of impregnated mosquito bednets with non-toxic pesticides), especially with respect to malaria and
schistosomiasis, are undertaken in the small-scale irrigated areas created, rehabilitated or extended under the project.
Related to    Institutional Assess the capacity of DNTP to screen, prepare TORs, supervise, and monitor the implementation of the Social and  90,000  NRIP/DNTP
Rural road                 Environmental Assessments for rural roads, and strengthen capacity as needed.
rehabilitation
Ensure that the Environmental and Social Assessments conducted for rural roads include a stakeholder analysis, and that key
local organizations participate in project preparation and design, including the analysis and mitigation issues, including STDs  PM  NRIP/DNTP
and HIV/AIDS
Regulatory   Ensure that contractors: (a) comply with project environmental guidelines, (b) provide all workers and higher level staff with   50,000  NRIP/DNSP
STD and HIV/AIDS awareness training.
Introduce simplified screening criteria and methods for environmental and social issues in the National Rural Transport  PM  NRIP/DNTP/
Strategy                                                                                                             DNACPN
Training     Provide staff of NGOs, Malian consulting firms, and local government agencies with short-term level training programs on key 80,000  NRIP/DNACPN
and         issues such as envirommental and socio-economic impact analysis, and environmental health, Social and Environmental
Education    Assessment, Gender Analysis, Project Monitoring and Evaluation.
Sponsor on-the-job training in Social and Environmental Assessment, gender analysis, project monitoring, and evaluation to   50,000  NRIP/DNACPN
DNTP and its contractors.



115
Soio            ye          A<In ofSc>ilamb'rc Coponenet                                                                                              ijiiEl
Related to    Institutional Ensure that women, youth and men acquire the capacity to, and are enabled to, assist with the appropriate siting and design of  PM  NRIP/DNH
Rural water                 water supply and sanitation infrastructure in the villages.
supply and
sanitation
Promote that women and youth obtain responsible posts in the water point management committees.              PM         NRIP/DNH
Regulatory   Ensure that contractors: (a) comply with project environmental guidelines, and (b) provide all workers and higher level staff    PM  NRIP/DNH/
with STD and HIV/AIDS awareness training.                                                                                DNACPN
Ensure that the organizations which serve as social intermediaries for this program assist local communities to formulate and    PM  NRIP/DNH/
implement sustainable management plans for their village's water and sanitation facilities.                              DNACPN
Ensure that environmental, social and hygiene related issues are addressed during the preparation of each lot of water supply   PM  NRIP/DNH/
and sanitation actions to be contracted out and that they are part of the contract.                                      DNACPN
Enable representatives of local villages, men and women, to visit successful water point management programs once their  15,000  NRIP/DNH/
own management plan has been accepted for implementation                                                                 DNACPN/DNSP
Include in the project component provisions to ensure that water management associations and committees are gender  PM   NRIP/DNH/
balanced                                                                                                                 DNACPN
Training     Stress the importance of environmental sanitation in hygiene education programs carried out in association with this  80,000  NRIP/DNH/
and          component.                                                                                                               DNACPN
Education
Conduct gender sensitivity workshops for staff of DNH at all levels involved in project implementation.      80,000      NRIP/DNH
Sponsor on-the-job training courses on Social and Environmental Assessments for the Govemment Services involved, selected  80,000  NRIPIDNACPN
NGOs and Malian consultants involved in Environmental and Social Assessment.
Strengthen the capacity of the Water Quality Laboratory of DNH, which would be used as a Reference Laboratory in Mali.    300,000    NRIP/DNH
AGETIER       Institutional  Ensure that AGETIER coopts appropriate expertise on social and environmental issues during the review and evaluation of all  PM  NRIP
relevant bids for the procurement of services.
Training     To ensure appropriate AGETIER capacities for procurement evaluation, develop training modules and train staff on  15,000  NRIP
and          environmental and social assessments, screening, preparation of TORs, monitoring and evaluation of implementation of
Education    environmental and social management plans and environmental and social audit/evaluation.
TOTAL                                                                                                                                    6,900,000                   1






BERD 30882
12'            B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                             '4
12'                         10O'            B      ^                               6                              ao '                jS26                                   N
MALI                                                !
NATIONAL RURAL                                                     I  "                                                                                J
INFPASTRUCTURE PROJECT                                                      i                  T 0 M B 0 U C T 0 U                                          Z                                        A L G E R I A
PROJET NATIONAL DES                                                      i
INFRASTRUCTURES RURALES                                                        i                                                                                                   o5,
20'
LARGE-SCAAE IRRIGATION                            RI~VERS                                                                                 N--VZa5o   .
GRANDS PER METRES A IRRIGUER                      RIVIERES
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATON-                            FLOOD AREA                                                                                                                     KIDAL                          )
PETITS PER METRES VILLAGEOIS                  ,   ZONE D'INONDATION                                                                                                              K  I D  A   L
REGONAL RURAL ROADS TO BE REHAB LITATED           REGION CAPITALS                                             A ..oaR                                                                 G                   -                     r
PISTES REGIONALES RURALES A REHABILITER           CHEFS-L EUX DES REGIONS                                                                                                        E  G.   E ON
WATER AND SANITAT ON ZONES                        REGION BOUNDARIES                                    R  E  G   I  0 N .
ZONES D' NTERVENT ONS- APPROVIS ONNEMENT          LMTSRGOAE                                                                                           lstS  
EN EAU POTABLE ET ASSA NISSEMENT                    T                                                                                                , N
---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                              LI'-
FRONT EARRES INTERNA"T4ONAL'ESD                                                                                                                                          l          s
15'            AGETIERZONES                                                                                                                                                                                                - -- - --
ZONES D'INTERVENTION DE LAGETIER
0      O 50  00   150   20D   250 K LOMETERS                           j                                                                                                  ,,
Th,snp ws-p ddMed c yhnM., D.sivn UsfTof Tha W-ldB-k                                                                   _G   A   O                                                       R  E   G  I  o  N
The bo cd=r es col rs denom,nG l,ns and aycte nformntion shown             !' 6/   IOMBOO ;n$u- ~                                               --    i       
jdmnonlEe legl slaSusof any err aryan any ensoesemerslor                                                                                                                                                           'I_ <2[   C;            
hucepracce of such bou`ocriec                                                  ?uena,a
th| ~  .P N  _,                                                                                                    O r  _-AnRascabre                                                                           j
0 > ..... KA r r *ly,  tk p., t f Th Wdd 3-  ,_0k NIG-ER
N \ -ARA                                 5      NsapaA                                            - Me - -                                .-
|      A ...                            -.L .6^"(~                                                                                                                                                           
\-,KIUL1                                                                                                                                                                L NIG
, .56 ~ '9KAY  -4fOS EcncDa3c                      A         +          -   \   T e o |     TERARCREGIO
RAYE  oG                    ,;t-     e REGIO N         --"-X-s. K  OP                              R DG   ON
Daa         iJde, Gero      NS     Aga R             cO  N-                                                                                                                                        |
RE(GORN                               D,a,6. (0             SE                     1f6DR4-rs
ASodao  1                    DVacaainhof          0D,66,         Ilkoc                                                                                                                                 2  f~                                4
Dr.W.-           -".-h.~~~~~~~~~Toso~r                                        -ar.,2'4
LU      0~5      ODiiouc-   T-A-OacMss    DRfs` aa  M.-ssOc5l          Roach  IGR                                                                                                      FORMER                  PT.
r%     ~    ~           4.-  ~EOM,fi                        NyIcOEs                                                                                                          SPoc  o --jANSH!O
LU        TU                         T E          a            N                Sfn                                (                      i
K&           I                                                                                                                                                                                                             TE--to Ra 1   0  3   '" '  t  ;  "- T.
DT0R~~~~~'A\                                     -----5--                    -                                                                                                          "'~~b--     -     - -1
acka               oR\/          BAO0l46B                                                                            R     I     A         F    S                         MAURITANIA 
/ EcarLooR  o~~~~~~ a~~  '*                                                                         I            ~~MALI
-.~~~~~~~UON                    -       ONeo                                                                                                                                                    I ~NIGER
b. 1.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~       ~        1 N_
GUINEA  P                  rooconbara   r~~~~~~~~~zegaoo~~~/                                                 G  H  A  N  A                  '44       ~~~~~~~Bo,nroko  /   RURKIF,'             \ EjIGERIA    N  AUINE
10' ID              '-nA                                                                                                                               V     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  EOTTDTVOIRR  'TEEf  GI{AI'LA    ShuIr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  o  C7ED'VO'R
MAY 2000






IBRD 30883
,~~~ ~~< ~MALI
----,- , / ---[                                                                                     NATIONAL RURAL
\  /    INFRASTR(I-TURE PROJECT
~ARI zo                                                                                           PROJET NATIONAL DES
INFRASTRUCTURES RURALES
OFFICE DU NIGER ZONE:
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION
GRANDS PERIMETRES A IRRIGUER
PROJECT/ PROJET
RE AB LITATION OF SOKO)L0 PERIMETER IS,30 h.T I
RE HABRLTATION DU PER)METRE DE SOKOLO (3.600 h.s)
Iq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NEWVILLAGE OF M'SWAN,
NUVEAU VILLAGE DE AMREWANi
14'30'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~43                                                    oNCOVEC PERIMETER (F NANCED BY A CHINESE COMPANY)
----- PFRIMETRE COVEC (FINANCEMENT CHIRNOIS)
MEBEWANI I FINANCED BY IDA
M'EWANI. I: INANCEMENT IDA
/                            WR~~~~~~~~~'EWANI II. FINANCED BY NETHERLANDS
/                      -~~~~~~~ ~M'EWANI El FINANCEMENT NEERLANDAIS
M7 EWANI III FINANCED BY IDA AND NETHERLANDS (1,315ho)I
N                                                                                (                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M FEWANIII. FINANCEMENT IDA ET NEERLANDAiSI 0 315 h)
PERIMETER OF KOUMOUNA
IKOUMOUNA I LEASE/SALEE, KOUMOUNA 11 PRIVATE)
FERIMETRE YE K OUMOIJNA
`KOUMOUNA I EOCATIONIVENTE ET ROLUMOUNA II PRIVES)
r~ -- PLOOD-PRONE AREAS                  ROADS
ZONES INONDABLES                  ROUJTES
DEVELOPED AREAS             0    YOWNSHIPS
Mon,n,pebou       z/E AMENAGERS                                                   CENTRES
Sis,in6                        "\, ,.        7     *,,,      -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN CANALS*    STRUCTURES
I                                                                         ,~~~~~i .                     CANAUIX PRINCIPAUXE               OUVRAGES
os,Ms,o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~MAIN DRAINS                                                                     -INTERNATIONAL
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DRAINS PRINCIPAUX                                                                 BOUNDARIES (INSET)
,&LY                ,,5'                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIMITES
1 A'00'  4~~~~~~~~~'                                    9.Bsky-W6,       -NINTERNATIONALEE
A' EW4'I III         ,j                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FORMER  "'0
SPAN SHJK
r                                                                                                               SAHA~~~YII}  MRA, 
EWANI I
D~~~ogobh~~~~~~&,,,  O~~~~~                                                         I        20' ~~~~MAURITANIA                            "-.7
~~  CB~~T  ~~-~""'  /9' ~~MALI
Cosol oddoc,e,,-    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~0                    1         2          3         4                   -              '.---  
/  )  '>',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         I              0~~~~~~~~Koye  ASO  of  ..MOI0SVS   , U
KILOMETERS                                         o    i            ,-       \
sShTS,  p                                                            K-~Io~oSI,W,SRE,sS  O- T    k-
lM9O~,~o,lEeBoITA~,I 05   MS  055555 SOOTGUINEA                                                 GEso~'~     ORIA
OS,S,-    SSS0OSP'"'1-CT                                                                     \',BENIN10
.    L-' 600'                                                     5030'                                              Gv                    HANA   i
MAY D0T0



