Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3393 MLI
Project Agreement
(National Rural Infrastructure Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
OFFICE DU NIGER
(ON)
Dated September 18, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3393 MLI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 18, 2000, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the OFFICE DU NIGER (ON).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Republic of Mali (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
eighty six million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
86,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that ON agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and ON, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to ON on terms and conditions set forth 
Page  2
in said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS ON, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and 
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and the term “Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of ON, beginning on 
January 1 and ending on December 31 of each calendar year.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project and other Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) ON declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to 
this end, shall carry out Part A.1, D.4 (a) and F.1 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency pursuant to the provisions set forth in the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit 
Agreement and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part 
A.1, D.4 (a) and F.1 of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ON shall carry out 
Part A.1, D.4 (a) and F.1 of the Project in accordance with the provisions 
referred to in the Implementation Plan set forth in Schedule 4 to the 
Development Credit Agreement and the Contrat Plan between the Borrower and ON in 
force at any time and exercise due diligence and care in furthering the 
accomplishment of the objective of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants' services, required for Part A.1, D.4 (a) 
and F.1 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. ON shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of ON Project 
Agreement and Part A.1, D.4 (a) and F.1 of the Project.
Section 2.04. ON shall duly perform all its obligations under ON 
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ON shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the ON Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 2.05. ON shall:
(a)
by September 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, have carried out the study referred to in Part A.1, D.4 (a) and F.1 of 
the Project, concerning cost recovery methods for irrigation infrastructure.
(b)
by December 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall 
Page  3
agree, have (i) concluded a Contrat Plan containing cost recovery methods for 
irrigation infrastructure satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) an 
operational unit established within its organizational framework in charge of 
monitoring, supervising and implementing activities intended to improve the 
environment; 
(c)
by June 30, 2003, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, have all contracts pertaining to civil works under Part A. 1 (a) of the 
Project signed and their implementation started; and
(d)
by June 30, 2004, or such later date as the Associations shall 
agree, have furnished to the Association a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, on the results of the tests Koumouna I and 
Koumouna II referred to under Part A. 1 (b) and (c) of the Project, 
respectively.
Section 2.06. ON shall:
(a)
at the request of the Association, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the progress of Part A.1; D.4 (a) and F. 1 of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
ON Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit or the accomplishment of the objective of the Project;
(b)
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Credit and the objectives of the Project, or the 
performance by ON of its obligations under this Agreement and under the ON 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement;
(c)
no later than November 30 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, prepare a report on its services rendered in the Project Area in the 
course of implementing the Project during the previous calendar year including 
recommendations for any improvements to be made;
(d)
no later than December 31 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, discuss said reports with the Borrower and the Association; and
(e)
promptly thereafter take all measures agreed upon by ON, the 
Borrower and the Association to improve ON's performance in accomplishing the 
objective of the Project.
Section 2.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.05 of 
this Agreement, ON shall participate in the Annual Reviews and the Midterm 
Review referred to in paragraphs 5 and 6 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ON
Section 3.01. ON shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ON shall at all times operate and maintain its facility, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make 
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
administrative and technical practices.
Section 3.03. ON shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such 
risks, other than the risk of default under credit provided by ON, and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
Page  4
and without limitation thereto, ON shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association no later than three (3) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and ON, a plan for the future evolution of its services to irrigated 
agriculture in the area of intervention of the Project, and
(b)
afford the Association reasonable opportunity to exchange views on said 
plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ON shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition.
(b)
ON shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each Fiscal 
Year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and financial statements as well as 
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination, 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date 
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association 
and of ON thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date fifteen (15) years after the date of this 
Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date 
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
notify ON of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the 
General Conditions.
Page  5
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or 
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by 
this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to 
have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, 
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or 
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or 
at such other addresses as such party shall have designated by notice to the 
party giving such notice or making such request.  The addresses so specified 
are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6291
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
For ON:
OFFICE DU NIGER
Direction Générale
B.P. 106
SEGOU
République du Mali
Facsimile:  
(222-2) 53286
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf 
of ON or by ON on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, 
may be taken or executed by its Director General, or by such other person or 
persons as ON shall designate in writing, and ON shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each 
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  6
OFFICE DU NIGER
By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah
Authorized Representative
