                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank


                            FOR OFFICE USE ONLY


                                                           Report No: ICR0000798




        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (IDA-3390, 3393A)

                                      ON AN

                        ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 86.7 MILLION
                     (US$115.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF MALI

                                       FOR A

   NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT IN SUPPORT OF THE
 FIRST PHASE OF THE NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM




                                    June 30, 2008




Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
Country Department AFCF2
Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        Currency Unit = CFAF

                            Exchange Rate
                       2001 US$1 = CFAF 713
                       2007 US$1 = CFAF 478

                           FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 ­ December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AGETIER   Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Infrastructures et d'Equipements Ruraux
          (Rural Infrastructure Works and Equipment Executing Agency)
AMM       Association des Municipalités du Mali (Malian Association of Municipalities)
APCAM     Assemblée Permanente des Chambres d'Agriculture du Mali (Permanent
          Assembly of Malian Chambers of Agriculture)
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF      Franc of the African Financial Community
CMU       Country Management Unit
CNRA      Comité National de la Recherche Agricole (National Committee for Agricultural
          Research)
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DNACPN    Direction Nationale de l'Assainissement et du Contrôle des Pollutions et des
          Nuisances (National Directorate for Sanitation and Pollution and Nuisance
          Control)
DNAER     Direction Nationale de l'Aménagement et de l'Equipement Rural (National
          Directorate for Rural Works and Equipment)
DNCL      Direction Nationale des Collectivités Territoriales (National Directorate for the
          Local Collectivities)
DNCN      Direction Nationale de la Conservation de la Nature (National Directorate for
          Environment Protection)
DNGR      Direction Nationale du Génie Rurale (National Directorate for Rural Works)
DNH       Direction Nationale de l'Hydraulique (National Directorate for Water)
DNP       Direction Nationale de la Planification (National Directorate for Planning)
DNR       Direction Nationale des Routes (National Directorate for Roads)
DNSP      Direction Nationale de la Santé Publique (National Directorate for Public
          Health)
DNTP      Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics (National Directorate for Public
          Works)
DPL       Development Policy Loan
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
GoM       Government of Mali
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA       International Development Association
IP        Implementation Profile
ISR       Implementation Status Report
LMC       Local Management Committee
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MA        Ministère de l'Agriculture (Ministry of Agriculture)
MCA       Millenium Challenge Account

                                                                                  ii

MCT      Ministère du Commerce et du Transport (Ministry of Commerce and
         Transport)
MDR      Ministère du Développement Rural (Ministry of Rural Development)
MDRE     Ministère du Développement Rural et de l'Environnement (Ministry of Rural
         Development and Environment)
ME       Ministère de l'Environnement (Ministry of Environment)
MEA      Ministere de l'Environnement et de l'Assainissement (Ministry of Environment
         and Sanitation)
MET      Ministère de l'Équipement et des Transports (Ministry of Equipment and
         Transport)
MF       Ministère des Finances (Ministry of Finance)
MMEE     Ministère des Mines, de l'Energie et de l'Eau (Ministry of Mining, Energy, and
         Water )
MS       Ministère de la Santé (Ministry of Health)
MTP      Ministère des Travaux Publics (Ministry of Public Works)
NGO      Nongovernmental Organization
OERT     Organisation de Reseaux d'Eau Tertiaires Zonal Irrigation Infrastructure
         Management Committee
ON       Office du Niger (Niger River Management Office)
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCC      Project Coordination Committee
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
PIP      Portfolio Improvement Program
PNIR     Projet National des Infrastructures Rurales (National Rural Infrastructure
         Project)
PPIV     Petits Périmètres Irrigués Villageois (Small-Scale Village Irrigation Perimeter)
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PST      Projet Sectoriel des Transports (Transport Sector Project)
RA       Road Authority (Autorité Routière)
SDR      Stratégie de Développement Rural (Rural Development Strategy)
TTL      Task Team Leader
US$      United States dollar



                Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
       Acting Country Director: Antonella Bassani
              Sector Manager: Karen M. Brooks
          Project Team Leader: Abdoulaye Touré




                                                                                 iii

                                                   MALI
           NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




Project Data
A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ ii
B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... ii
C. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ ii
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................. ii
E. Bank Staff.................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis....................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) ................ ii
H. Restructuring (if any).................................................................................................. ii
I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................... ii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design.............................................. 2
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 2
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 2
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................... 2
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 2
6. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................... 2
7. Comments on issues raised by the Borrower/ Implementing Agencies/ Partners ...... 2
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing............................................................................. 2
Annex 2. Outputs by component ..................................................................................... 2
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.................................................................... 2
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Process................... 2
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results.............................................................................. 2
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................... 2
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....................... 2
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.......................... 2
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ......................................................................... 2
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's Completion Report (in French).............................. 2
MAP ­ IBRD 33443 ........................................................................................................ 2




                                                                                                                           iv

A. Basic Information

                                                                    National Rural
Country:               Mali                   Project Name:
                                                                    Infrastructure Project
                                                                    IDA-33930, IDA-
Project ID:            P041723                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                    3393A
ICR Date:              06/30/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    APL                    Borrower:
                                                                    MALI
Original Total
                       XDR 86.7M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 86.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Agriculture;Ministry of Transport and Equipment; Ministry of Mines, Energy
and Water; Ministry of Environment
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process            Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:      10/21/1998     Effectiveness:        06/27/2001        06/27/2001
Appraisal:           02/07/2000     Restructuring(s):
Approval:            06/27/2000     Mid-term Review:      03/31/2003        11/15/2003
                                    Closing:              12/31/2005        12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Modest
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings               Borrower                Ratings

Quality at Entry:      Moderately                                   Moderately
                       Satisfactory           Government:           Unsatisfactory
Quality of                                    Implementing
Supervision:           Satisfactory           Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank           Moderately             Overall Borrower      Moderately
Performance:           Satisfactory           Performance:          Satisfactory




                                                                                          v

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
     Performance               Indicators             (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem
                                                Quality at Entry     Moderately
Project at Any Time       No
                                                (QEA):               Unsatisfactory
(Yes/No):
Problem Project at Any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                        None
Time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive Status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                            10                  5
General transportation sector                                   20                 26
General water, sanitation, and flood protection sector          24                 22
Irrigation and drainage                                         46                 47


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development       Secondary          Secondary
Land administration and management                           Secondary          Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                           Secondary         Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                              Primary          Primary
Water resource management                                    Secondary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Antonella Bassani                 Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager:           Karen McConnell Brooks            Jean-Paul Chausse
Project Team Leader:      Abdoulaye Toure                   Eustacius N. Betubiza
ICR Team Leader:          Yeyande Kasse Sangho
ICR Primary Author:       Stanislaw Manikowski




                                                                                         vi

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Development Credit Agreement)1

The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to reduce poverty and improve the
living conditions of the rural population in the territory of the Borrower through
provision, and enhanced financial and environmental sustainability of basic rural
infrastructure, including: (a) irrigation infrastructure; (b) rural transport infrastructure;
(c) safe drinking water supply; and (d) sanitation facilities.

To achieve this PDO, the National Rural Infrastructure Project had two specific
objectives.

The project's institutional objective was to assist the Government of Mali in
establishing a new institutional framework for the provision and management of rural
infrastructure by:

    · Redefining the roles played by central government, local governments, local
         communities, and the private sector in providing and managing rural
         infrastructure;

    · Setting up effective mechanisms to plan, finance, and manage infrastructure;
    · Improving the capacities of stakeholders at all levels to carry out these
         responsibilities.


Activities to support the institutional objective included:

    · Piloting irrigation development financing mechanisms based on enhanced
         investment cost collection from beneficiaries;

    · Testing and refining the demand-driven, decentralized approach to delivering
         rural water supply and sanitation programs and local transport infrastructure;

    · Establishing a second-generation road maintenance financing mechanism (the
         Road Authority);

    · Promoting the emergence of a vibrant local entrepreneurial sector for
         decentralized service/investment delivery to rural clients.

The project's investment objective was to support priority/pilot investments in
irrigation development (9,300 hectares), feeder road rehabilitation (472 kilometers),
water supply development (1,300 water facilities), and sanitation programs.



1 This differs from the description in the PAD, which states that the overall program (APL) purpose is
to reduce poverty and improve the livelihood of the rural population by accelerating the provision, and
enhancing the sustainability, of basic rural infrastructure. The specific objectives of the PNIR are
reproduced here as listed in the main text of the PAD. The program purpose in the PAD Annex 1 is:
"Well being of the population improved through adequate rural infrastructure (irrigation, transport,
sanitation and transport, irrigation and potable water potable water) sustainably developed and
managed". The purpose for Phase 1 (the PNIR) is stated as: "Institutional mechanisms and strategies
established / strengthened and refined through infrastructure investments in specific geographic areas".
The ICR evaluates both the overall PDO from the PAD main text, which corresponds to the DCA PDO,
and the specific objectives listed in the PAD main text.

                                                                                                    vii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project development objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                               approval        Target       Completion or
                                             documents)        Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Institutional mechanism and strategies are established/strengthened and
               refined through infrastructure investments in specific geographic areas.
                                                                          Irrigation, water,
                                                                          and sanitation
                                                                          strategies have
                                                                          been adopted and
                                                                          applied.
                                                                          Private Irrigation
                                          Irrigation                      Funding

Value                                     strategy, rural                 Mechanism and

quantitative orNo strategy for the        transport strategy,             National Rural

qualitative)   targeted sectors           water/sanitation                Transport Strategy
                                          strategy are fully              have been
                                          applied.                        prepared, validated
                                                                          by stakeholders,
                                                                          tested on a pilot
                                                                          basis, and under
                                                                          adoption by the
                                                                          Government of
                                                                          Mali.
Date achieved 06/02/2000                  12/31/2005                      12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The indicator is achieved at 75 percent, because the rural transport strategy

achievement)   and the irrigation private funding mechanism are still under adoption.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                               approval        Target        Completion or
                                             documents)        Values         Target Years
               Annual paddy production increases by at least 26,000 tons (national paddy
Indicator 1 : production is 532,000 tons) by the end of 2005, after satisfactory completion of
               a development program on 9,300 hectares.

                                          532,000 tons                    601,607 tons of

Value                                                                     paddy by 2005;

(quantitative  506,000 tons               9,300 hectares of               9,630 hectares of

or qualitative)                           new land                        irrigated land

                                          developed                       developed as of June
                                                                          30, 2007
Date achieved 06/02/2000                  12/31/2005                      12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The indicator is fully met.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  A high proportion of local management committees (LMCs) for small-scale
               irrigation make full provisions for replacing pumping and other depreciable
                                                                                          viii

               equipment.
Value
(quantitative  50 percent LMCs            90 percent LMCs                  80 percent LMCs
or qualitative)
Date achieved 06/02/2000                  12/31/2005                       12/31/2007

Comments       The indicator is 89 percent achieved (80 percent achieved compared to 90

(incl. %       percent target). The remaining 11 percent of LMCs have set up the recovery

achievement)   system mechanism and should start collecting maintenance fees at the next
               harvest.
Indicator 3 : An additional 300,000 rural inhabitants have access to clean drinking water.
Value
(quantitative  2.8 million people         3.1 million people               3.34 million people
or qualitative)
Date achieved 06/02/2000                  12/31/2005                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The indicator has surpassed its target by 8 percent. About 540,000 additional

achievement)   people now have access to potable water.

Indicator 4 :  A high proportion of water pumps provided under the project remain
               operational at any time following their installation.

Value                                  98 percent - 800 new                100 percent: 1,115

(quantitative  < 50 percent            water pumps                         water pumps

or qualitative)                        provided/rehabilitated              provided and 209
                                                                           rehabilitated
Date achieved 06/02/2000               12/31/2005                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The indicator is fully met. Communities have set up water pump management

achievement)   committees that operate well.

               Road Authority generates sufficient resources and concludes and adequately
Indicator 5 : supervises contracts for routine maintenance of a significant portion of the road
               network.
                                          Maintenance of 40                The Road Authority
                                          percent of the road              maintained 9,000
                                          network by the                   kilometers of feeder
                                          Road Authority (at               roads, representing

Value                                     least 3,500                      78 percent of the

(quantitative  <20 percent                kilometers),                     national program, in

or qualitative)                           financed from its                2007.
                                          own funds.

                                          472 kilometers of                Project funded 513
                                          feeder         roads             kilometers of feeder
                                          rehabilitated.                   road.
Date achieved 06/02/2000                  12/31/2005                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The target for this indicator was surpassed; 78 percent of the rural road network

achievement)   was maintained annually at project closure against the target of 40 percent.




                                                                                            ix

G. Ratings of Project Performance in Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)


      Date ISR                                                   Actual
No.   Archived             DO                  IP             Disbursements
                                                              (US$ millions)
  1   11/21/2000       Satisfactory       Satisfactory            0.00
  2   06/27/2001       Satisfactory       Satisfactory            0.00
  3   12/18/2001       Satisfactory       Satisfactory            1.46
  4   05/08/2002       Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory           2.82
  5   11/07/2002       Satisfactory       Satisfactory            6.56
  6   05/09/2003       Satisfactory       Satisfactory           15.33
  7   11/10/2003       Satisfactory       Satisfactory           28.58
  8   12/10/2003       Satisfactory       Satisfactory           30.60
  9   05/25/2004       Satisfactory       Satisfactory           46.01
 10   08/16/2004       Satisfactory       Satisfactory           53.83
 11   06/16/2005       Satisfactory       Satisfactory           69.40
 12   09/15/2005       Satisfactory       Satisfactory           76.50
 13   05/12/2006       Satisfactory       Satisfactory           84.98
 14   11/09/2006       Satisfactory       Satisfactory           92.42
 15   08/17/2007       Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   110.81
 16   01/24/2008       Satisfactory       Satisfactory          125.74

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                                                            x

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Mali's transition from an authoritarian to a democratic political system, starting in 1991,
and its devaluation of the CFAF in 1994 have provided strong incentives for rural
development. The government's comprehensive Rural Development Strategy (Stratégie
de Développement Rural, SDR), adopted in 1992, included nine strategic axes for rural
development, each of which was translated into long-term programs aimed at reducing
rural poverty. The second of these, the National Rural Infrastructure Program (Projet
National des Infrastructures Rurales, PNIR), was intended to improve the delivery of key
rural services such as irrigation, water, sanitation, and rural roads. When the program was
initiated, those services were provided by the Ministry of Rural Development and Water
(MDRE), but the institutional landscape changed following project appraisal in 2001.
With the creation of a Ministry of Agriculture (MA) in 2002, responsibility for rural
roads was transferred to the Ministry of Equipment and Transport (MET), water and
sanitation became the responsibility of the Ministry of Mining, Energy, and Water
(MMEE), and environmental issues came under the purview of the newly created
Ministry of Environment (ME). In contrast, large-scale irrigation remained the
responsibility of the Niger River Management Office (the Office du Niger, or ON), which
was initiated by French colonial authorities in 1932 and had the potential to provide
irrigation on as much as one million hectares. The Niger River Management Office
received strong support over ten years (1988­97) from the World Bank and other donors
through the ON Consolidation Project, which implemented successful reforms. The main
outcomes by 1998 included a doubling of paddy yields (1996) following rice trade and
price liberalization, increased efficiency in irrigation infrastructure management, and
improved security of land tenure.

In 1997, the Government of Mali adopted a Poverty Reduction Strategy that was based
on improved macroeconomic management and job creation. The World Bank Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mali, approved in 1998, supported the Poverty Reduction
Strategy by focusing on sustainable human development and sustained economic growth.
In the rural sector, the Country Assistance Strategy sought to foster competitive, broad-
based growth by promoting increased agricultural production, improving links between
crop-producing and crop-consuming centers, and strengthening capacity in the public and
private sector to plan and implement the local development strategy. The development
objectives of the PNIR were in harmony with the priorities expressed in the government's
Rural Development Strategy, the Poverty Reduction Strategy, and the Country Assistance
Strategy, because the PNIR aimed at improving rural infrastructure and reinforcing
institutional capacity in a decentralized political environment.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators

The PNIR focused on two Project Development Objectives (PDOs):

   i.   Institutional objective: Assist the Government of Mali in establishing a new
        institutional framework for providing and managing rural infrastructure, which
        would include: (a) redefining the roles of the central government, local
        governments, local communities, and the private sector; (b) implementing
                                                                                         1

       effective mechanisms to plan, finance, and manage infrastructure; and (c)
       improving the capacities of stakeholders at all levels to carry out these
       responsibilities;

 ii.   Investment objective: Support priority/pilot investments in irrigation development
       (9,300 hectares), feeder road rehabilitation (472 kilometers), water supply
       development (1,300 water facilities), and sanitation programs.


1.3 Revised PDOs and Key Indicators and Justification of Same

The PDO and Indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries (original and revised)

The ultimate beneficiaries of the project were projected to be:

    · Rural communities (74 percent of the rural Malian population is poor) from the
       poorest regions of Mopti, Gao, Tombouctou, Kidal, Segou, Sikasso, and Kayes.
       These communities would experience an increase in agricultural production,
       employment, and access to potable water;

    · Producers in the Niger River Management Office zone would gain greater access
       to land and improved irrigation infrastructure and learn how to manage their water
       system in a sustainable manner;

    · Women in the targeted regions would benefit from irrigated land set aside for
       them and from additional training and equipment;

   · Private investors in irrigated crop production would gain access to land and land
       titles through the pilot irrigated perimeters in Koumouna.


Additional beneficiaries could include:
   · The Niger River Management Office, whose managerial and technical
       performance would improve as a result of the project;

   · The Road Authority, which would benefit from the improved financing of road
       maintenance, and road users, who would benefit from improved road
       maintenance;
   · The Rural Infrastructure Works and Equipment Executing Agency (AGETIER),
       which would be established and operating in a sustainable manner;

   · Ministries in charge of Agriculture, Rural Roads, Water and Sanitation, and
       Environment would improve their capacity and ability to plan and execute
       development activities;

   · Indirect beneficiaries, such as input suppliers, a range of service providers, and
       traders, would benefit from the development of the local economy.




                                                                                       2

1.5 Original Components

The PNIR had six components.

Component I: Irrigation (US$66.6 million) would: (a) pilot the new capital cost
collection mechanisms and promote private irrigation investments; (b) improve irrigation
infrastructure management through beneficiary training; (c) promote irrigation
development cost reduction; (d) rehabilitate damaged irrigation perimeters and develop
small-scale perimeters in poor areas; and (e) strengthen environmental monitoring.

Activities under component I were grouped into two subcomponents:

   · Subcomponent IA: Large-Scale Irrigation Development at the Niger River
       Management Office would test the viability of an autonomous, self-financing, and
       privately managed irrigation development agency; test the capacity of the private
       sector to invest in irrigation development; rehabilitate and develop new irrigation
       perimeters; finance capacity building for the Niger River Management Office; and
       finance engineering and research studies. The Niger River Management Office
       implemented this subcomponent. The related research was conducted under the
       aegis of the National Committee for Agricultural Research (CNRA).

   · Subcomponent IB: Small-Scale Irrigation, would finance (a) capacity building and
       strengthening of farmers' associations; (b) rehabilitation or construction of new
       small-scale irrigation perimeters; (c) pilot studies of using groundwater for
       irrigated agriculture in the Kidal region; (d) agricultural intensification; and (e)
       studies on ways of reducing investment costs. The National Directorate for Rural
       Works (DNGR) implemented this subcomponent.

Component II: Rural Transport Infrastructure (US$26.0 million) would help to set
up the Road Authority and complete the National Rural Transport Strategy; it would also
support rehabilitation of 472.3 kilometers of feeder roads. The National Directorate for
Roads (DNR) implemented this component.

Component III: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (US$25.5 million) would entail a
full-scale demonstration of the new strategy for rural water supply and sanitation, the
objectives of which were to (a) maximize the impact and sustained use of safe water
supply and sanitation facilities in rural areas; (b) increase participation of the local private
sector in the provision of goods and services; (c) increase the community's contribution
to investment costs; and (d) ensure that communities accepted full responsibility for
operating and maintaining water and sanitation facilities. The National Directorate for
Water (DNH) was the implementing agency.

Component IV: Environmental and Social Protection Measures (US$6.9 million)
would implement the action plan aimed at mitigating any negative environmental and
social impacts arising from the project. The project would finance investments, legal and
regulatory measures, studies, technical assistance, and capacity building designed to
contribute to the sustained use of land and water resources, provide support to vulnerable
social groups, improve the voluntary relocation of villagers near the irrigated zones, and

                                                                                              3

enhance women's participation in economic development and local management of
infrastructure. The National Directorate for Sanitation and Pollution and Nuisance
Control (DNACPN) implemented this component.

Component V: AGETIER (US$1.1 million) would finance equipment for setting up the
agency and training its personnel. This component was implemented by AGETIER in
conjunction with the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).

Component VI: Program Coordination and Monitoring (US$11.9 million) would
finance the salaries of the project coordinator, deputy coordinator, accountant, and
support staff of the PCU, as well as the equipment (vehicles, computers, and furniture),
staff training, and operating costs of the central unit, the component's coordination units,
and the regional units (including the implementation costs for the Niger River
Management Office project). This component was implemented by the PCU under the
supervision of a Project Coordination Committee (PCC).

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

There were no other significant changes.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

Concept. The PNIR was an ambitious project involving multiple implementing entities.
It encompassed six components, four of which could have been stand-alone projects. The
level of difficulty increased just after appraisal, when the MDRE transferred
responsibility for rural roads, water and sanitation, and environment to other ministries.
These conditions made it more difficult to start and manage the project and slowed the
pace of implementation. It was also an innovative project promoting participatory
approaches which posed another challenge. The approach called for contracting with
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to assist communities with a participatory
diagnostic and planning process, and ultimately it was more than two years before the
investment program could begin. The process of preparing the National Rural Transport
Strategy in a highly participatory way, testing it through the implementation of a pilot
rural road program, updating it to reflect lessons learned, and validating the new strategy
document with all stakeholders before sending it to the government for adoption, proved
very long and difficult to execute during the project's life. Finally, the project was to
prepare, test and have adopted important strategic reforms of a ten-year ambitious rural
infrastructure development program (APL). These reforms were designed as institutional
innovations that were to be tested by pilot operations which had to serve as a satisfactory
basis for a long-term investment program that would be environmentally, socially and
financially sound.



                                                                                          4

Quality at entry/execution. A quality-at-entry assessment of the PNIR was done in
April 2001 and in July 2001. The QAG panel rated the Quality at Entry Marginally
Satisfactory. But the QAG rating recorded in Section C.3 of this ICR is MU, which is
incorrect (please see QAG report of July 13, 2001 where the rating is given MS under
Section A). The conclusions of the panel remain relevant. First, the project concept was
flawed by the absence of clear synergies among components. Second, the financial and
economic evaluation of benefits contained many assumptions, some of which were
inadequately justified (such as the benefits to be derived from roads and small-scale
irrigation). Third, the method of monitoring poverty alleviation and environmental and
social improvements was not clearly spelled out, and the participation of prospective
beneficiaries was not considered in monitoring poverty reduction.

The project team sought to address the weak quality at entry and other challenges posed
by the ambitious and innovative nature of the project by: (i) taking a set of corrective
measures during implementation; and (ii) extending the project to achieve its
development objectives more successfully.

Some of the corrective measures taken during implementation in response to the QEA
recommendations include: (i) the revision of the the roads standards for the second group
of PPIV, which permitted to reduce the cost by 50 percent; (ii) the implementation of the
Irrigation Private Financing Mechanism and pilot projects to give 130 farmers access to
credit; (iii) the carring out of three impact assessments to improve project performance;
and (iv) the use of FAO-CP funds to increase supervision budget.

The PNIR was extended twice. The first extension (of 18 months) on September 29, 2005
helped the project complete the physical investments. The second extension (of 6
months) on November 9, 2007, helped complete the pilot tests of the Irrigation, Water
and Sanitation, and Rural Transport Infrastructure components of the project necessary
for the Government to endorse the reforms.

Lessons from other projects. Although novel, the project's concept was based on
several lessons from similar World Bank projects in Mali and elsewhere in sub-Saharan
Africa: beneficiaries should be involved in project identification and execution, and they
should contribute to the investment; autonomous road maintenance mechanisms with
predictable revenues prove effective in ensuring adequate road maintenance; private,
nonprofit executing agencies are effective in developing the capacities of local
enterprises; training of irrigation and water user management committees is essential to
the sustainability of the investment; and farmers can effectively manage revolving funds
to purchase inputs.

Rationale for World Bank involvement. Before the PNIR, the World Bank had
implemented more than 30 rural infrastructure management projects in West Africa,
many in geographical and climatic conditions similar to those in Mali. The Bank also
financed projects aimed at increasing private sector participation in irrigation. The PNIR
was a continuation of longstanding World Bank support to rural development and was in
line with Pillar Two of the 1998 Country Assistance Strategy related to sustained
economic growth.



                                                                                         5

Government commitment. The Government of Mali considers the project and the entire
program a priority. As mentioned, the project was part of the second program within the
Rural Development Strategy and addressed urgent development issues in remote areas.
The President of Mali visited project sites several times. Parliament closely followed the
project's implementation and appointed a representative to participate in project
supervision missions.

2.2     Implementation

Factors beyond government and executing agency control

Between 2000 and 2007, the project was disrupted by two serious events. First, civil
strife in Kidal interrupted the pilot test of groundwater irrigation. Second, the eruption of
civil strife in Côte d'Ivoire in 2002 hindered imports of irrigation material and fuel from
Abidjan, which increased the cost of investing in small-scale village irrigation perimeters
(PPIVs).

Factors dependent on the Government

The Government of Mali fulfilled its obligation as stated in the Credit Agreement but
underperformed in its two main areas of accountability under the PNIR, the release of
funds and the adoption of reforms. As required in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD), the Government of Mali rapidly mobilized the PCC and the PCU teams that
managed the project, but it could not release counterpart funding and proceed with
reforms in a timely way. Counterpart funds were generally adequately budgeted, but their
disbursement was delayed from year to year, so that when the project terminated, US$3.4
million in counterpart funds remained to be paid. The government was also committed to
implementing several key reforms at the same time, a process that was seriously affected
by the two election years that occurred during the project and by the tradition of making
decisions by national consensus. For example, it took almost four years to adopt the
decree for the pilot land tenure program in Koumouna perimeter that would permit land
titles to be awarded (and in turn, fulfill the conditions for settling private investors).
Additional delays have been seen with the National Rural Transport Strategy and the
Private Irrigation Financing Mechanism, which have been prepared and validated by key
stakeholders but have not been conclusively adopted by the government at the time of
this Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR).2

Factors dependent on the executing agency

The project executing agency was very efficient in managing such an ambitious effort
involving four ministries, central and decentralized entities, and key institutions such as
the Niger River Management Office and AGETIER. Before the mid-term review, the
PCU faced serious procurement delays owing to the poor quality of procurement
documents and lengthy national procedures. The delays in procurement caused the
project to be termed "at risk" in 2002 by the Portfolio Improvement Program. To address
this issue, procurement specialists were trained and the follow-up of procurement
processes were improved. The PCU adopted procurement monitoring tables, which were
shared with the Task Team Leader every month. The quality of documentation improved,

2See sections on large-scale irrigation and transport in 3.2.
                                                                                           6

and approval processes in the Ministries and World Bank moved more rapidly. The
procurement and disbursement components attained satisfactory ratings in 2003 as a
result.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), Design, Implementation, and Utilization

A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) steering committee was set up under the leadership
of the Planning Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture to coordinate the M&E system. The
M&E system involved the PCU, the coordination units for the project components,
AGETIER, and the Niger River Management Office. An M&E specialist was appointed
at the PCU, and an M&E focal point was identified for each project component.

The system did not become fully operational for three years. Owing to delays in
acquiring M&E software, the system monitored only project activities and outputs until
the time of the mid-term review. In 2005, the system was improved and started to be
more result-oriented. Since then, the PCU has systematically and satisfactorily monitored
progress toward project input and outcome indicators.

The M&E focal points, who were responsible for collecting and transmitting data, had
difficulty in collecting data and updating the project database on time. In particular, the
Water and Sanitation component experienced long delays in updating the National
Directorate for Water database (SIGMA) for water infrastructure, but by the end of the
project, the data were being successfully updated on a bi-annual basis.

Ultimately, however, the M&E system succeeded in producing bi-annual progress reports
and disseminating information about the project's progress, coordinating and optimizing
the work plans of the project components, preparing annual project work plans, planning
and tracking project spending, participating in the drafting of aide-mémoires, and
monitoring implementation of the resulting action plans. The M&E section also
conducted three impact evaluations during the project life that were used to improve
project performance and prepare the current ICR.

2.4     Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

The project triggered OP7.50 on International Waterways. The project was cleared by the
Niger Basin Authority.

Financial management. The financial management capacity of the PCU and the
component coordinating units were maintained at a satisfactory level. Quarterly financial
reports and annual audit reports were prepared and submitted to the World Bank on time.
The project experienced some delays in tracking expenditures because financial data
were transmitted slowly from the decentralized project components, but this deficiency
was corrected rapidly and did not seriously affect financial management.

Procurement. The procurement procedures were in compliance with World Bank
requirements. Procurement plans were produced annually and revised as necessary.
Lengthy procurement processing, due to delays, both at the Bank and Government levels,
seriously affected project implementation. Before 2005, the procurement of works took
from eight months to one year to complete. In 2002, the Unsatisfactory rating of the IP is

                                                                                         7

due to the long procurement delay of the perimeter of Sokolo for which the work
supervision bid took one year to be awarded. Starting in 2005, after adequate measures
were taken by Government and the Bank (PPIV and Water/Sanitation procurement
transferred to AGETIER and World Bank Conakry office took over PNIR procurement
files), the processing time was reduced to three-five months.

Environmental assessment. The project was rated Category B and triggered OP4.01 on
Environmental Assessment. It executed 59 (of 63) activities concerning environmental
protection and social impact (Annex 12 of the PAD). All works contracts incorporated
environmental management clauses, and they were respected in all cases, due to follow-
up by the Ministry of Environment, backed up by Bank safeguards specialists. OP4.12 on
Involuntary Resettlement was also triggered, and a resettlement framework policy was
prepared prior to appraisal. Environmental and social safeguards were satisfactorily
applied. For example, two villages constructed for voluntarily displaced populations in
the Niger River Management Office area were provided with social services (drinking
water pumps, a school, a medical clinic), and farmers were also provided with free access
to 281 hectares of irrigated land.

2.5      Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The PNIR was designed as the first phase of a two-phase, ten-year program. However,
preparation of the new Country Assistance Strategy for fiscal year 2008­11 led to the
conclusion that the World Bank's agricultural portfolio in Mali should be further
consolidated and realigned3 to speed progress towards the development of a sectoral
investment program. Three major programs were retained as part of a renewed World
Bank Agricultural and Rural Development Strategy in Mali that would address: (i)
grassroots socioeconomic development, through the Rural Community Development
Project; (ii) supply chain development, through the Agricultural Competitiveness and
Diversification Project; and (iii) agricultural productivity, by merging the PNIR approach
on irrigation with the experience of the Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations
Program (PASAOP)4 in delivering agricultural services. This decision is consistent with
the conclusions and recommendations of the last Country Economic Memorandum.

The new agricultural program will thus build on the achievements and lessons from PNIR
in expanding large-scale irrigation within the Niger River Management Office and small-
scale irrigation perimeters along the Niger River Valley. In collaboration with other
donors, the new program will consolidate the institutional reforms initiated and supported
by PNIR to modernize governance of the Niger River Management Office, rationalize the
use of water, and strengthen private investment in irrigation through the Private Irrigation
Financing Mechanism. The main donors involved in Mali's agricultural sector5
maintained a continuous, strong dialogue with the government during the PNIR project,
and continue to do so after the project's closure.

The Water Supply and Rural Road components of the project are now being addressed
within the Ministry of Mining, Energy, and Water and Ministry of Equipment and


3The Mali Portfolio had 14 active projects, with 5 in Agriculture and Rural Development.
4PASAOP was designed as a 3-phase, 15-year program.
5 The World Bank, the French Development Agency, the Dutch Embassy, United States Agency for
International Development, and the African Development Bank.
                                                                                            8

Transport. Further investments in feeder roads will be financed under the recently
initiated second Transport Sector Program, supported by the World Bank. As the new
Country Assistance Strategy aims at refocusing Bank interventions with stronger
selectivity, the Bank will support the water sector through the PRSC series. On a smaller
scale, the continuing community-based rural development project funded by the Bank
may respond to requests for water supply infrastructure through its collective investment
funds. Large-scale investments are financed by other donors through a water sector
program.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

Relevance of objectives. Poverty reduction and improved livelihoods among the rural
population are still priorities, as expressed in the second Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper for 2007­11. The strategy aims to foster rapid, private sector-led growth and
strong public sector performance through: (i) the development of infrastructure and
economic sectors to enhance productivity by improving the business environment; (ii) the
continuation and consolidation of public sector structural reforms to increase public
sector efficiency, particularly through decentralization; and (iii) the strengthening of
social sectors to improve delivery of basic social services. The project objectives also
remain relevant to the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy for 2008­11, which
focuses on promoting rapid and broad-based growth and strengthening public sector
management. As a result, Mali should improve the availability of its factors of
production, develop the indigenous private sector, and improve the links between the
budget and sector strategies. The recent increase in crop prices has heightened the focus
on agricultural output and food security and is reflected in a higher than expected ERR
for the irrigation component, increasing the economic justification for, and relevance of,
the project (see Section 3.3 Efficiency for details).

Project Design. The project was too ambitious. Drafting or updating sector development
strategies and running pilot projects to test them undoubtedly remain the appropriate
means of identifying which strategies work, so that a pragmatic development program
can be prepared. Each component of the PNIR operated in isolation, however.6 Nor did
the components cover the same provinces, depriving the project of the benefits from
combined impacts. In targeting so many strategic reforms, the project preparation did not
take into account Mali's political economy7 of decision-making. The agenda was a real
challenge, consuming much time and energy. Finally, the various sectors were at
different levels of institutional organization, which accounts for the varying results
achieved among the components.

Project Implementation. The project's institutional objectives were implemented more
slowly by the national administration than anticipated in the PAD. The reforms promoted
by the project, which took ten years to be adopted, were ambitious both in terms of
number, timeframe, and method envisaged (strategies to be endorsed by Government


6The components represented four sectors, managed by four ministries (Agriculture; Mines, Energy, and
Water; Equipment and Transport; and Environment).
7It took 10 years to implement reforms of the Niger River Management Office, which were decreed in
1994.
                                                                                                   9

after having been tested), and in terms of an optimistic assessment of the country's
political economy. As a comparison, dialogue on the cotton sector reforms started in
1999 and institutional reforms envisaged in 2003 under the PASAOP are yet to be
achieved. Completion of the investment objective depended on the project itself, whereas
the institutional objective could not be achieved without decisions from ministries or
Parliament. The dependence on numerous institutions, all with their own agendas,8
inevitably influenced project implementation, along with the large number of reforms and
the need to ratify each one through several rounds of negotiation.9

3.2     Achievement of the Project Development Objectives (PDOs)

In terms of its overall development objective of reducing poverty and improving
livelihoods among rural people, the project increased incomes and improved livelihoods
for a great number of people, as described in greater details later. The project reached its
major specific objectives with no major shortcomings. For these reasons the outcome is
rated Satisfactory.

Increase in irrigation-dependent household income

The achievement of this indicator is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The investments
made in irrigation and cultivation of new perimeters resulted in: (i) the development of
20,771 additional cultivated hectares in the Niger River Management Office and PPIV
zones; (ii) an increase in rice production of about 100,000 tons; (iii) the generation of 25­
96 new seasonal jobs per hectare, representing from 520,000 to 2 million new seasonal
jobs in total. The income from family labor ranges from CFAF 2,200 to 12,800 per
person per day compared to the minimum daily wage of CFAF 750 for unskilled labor in
urban areas. At appraisal, the project projected that it could raise income from CFAF
2,000 to CFAF 3,800 per day, and this projection has been surpassed. The additional
income has vastly reduced poverty among the affected families and increased the choices
available to them. As documented in the most recent impact study, increased income has
reduced migration from both the Niger River Management Office and PPIV zones.

Reduction in transportation costs as a result of better infrastructure

The achievement of this indicator is rated Satisfactory. The most recent impact study
found that transport costs were 20 to 40 percent lower along the new roads. In addition,
the new roads facilitate better distribution of rice and other agricultural products inside
the Niger River Management Office zone and towards Mauritania. Consequently the
supply of rice to poor, non-rice-producing regions such as Koulikoro and Banamba has
improved.

Increased number of rural inhabitants who have access to and use drinking water

The achievement of this indicator is rated Satisfactory. Drinking water facilities (1,121,
equipped with 1,115 manual pumps) and water systems for 24 small localities have


8Two presidential and legislative elections over the course of the project delayed strategic decisions.
9 Difficulties encountered in the Ministry of Agriculture's adoption of reforms for the Niger River
Management Office caused the reform agenda to be transferred to the Poverty Reduction Support Credit
(PRSC) matrix.
                                                                                                        10

provided access to drinking water for about 540,000 persons against the 300,000 initially
targeted by the project. Apart from generally improving the beneficiaries' quality of life,
these facilities have reduced the time women spend in fetching water, freeing time for
economic and social activities. In the longer term, access to water will improve
beneficiaries' health.

Component I: Irrigation

The Component is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

Subcomponent IA: Large-scale Irrigation Development at the Niger River
Management Office

This Subcomponent is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

The institutional reform program of this subcomponent was partially achieved; the
investment target was fully achieved.

(i) An irrigation funding mechanism based on partial cost recovery is functional, and the
recovery rate is at least 90 percent. This indicator has been partially met. The
subcomponent conducted important activities aiming at setting up an irrigation funding
mechanism and promoting private/public partnerships for financing irrigation at the Niger
River Management Office. More specifically, it piloted efforts to deliver land titles to
private investors to encourage the settlement and subsequent development of 1,149
hectares in Koumouna. This subcomponent facilitated the selection of 130 small-scale
producers and supported their dialogue with a local bank, which loaned the producers
CFAF 200 million to build irrigation canals and procure inputs. (The corresponding
selection of large-scale producers was finalized only at project completion, however.)
This subcomponent also managed a participatory effort to draft a proposal for a Private
Irrigation Funding Mechanism,10 which had been approved by all stakeholders but not the
government at the time of this ICR. The mechanism consists of a cost-sharing system that
allows the Malian banking system and private investors to finance about 64 percent of
land development and the government to finance 36 percent. Although the mechanism
was assessed successfully through the Niger River Management Office pilot in
Koumouna and has been more widely adopted by donors intervening in the Management
Office, such as the Millenium Challenge Account (MCA) and the West African
Economic and Monetary Union11, the delays in settling producers prevented the effort
from attaining its cost recovery goals by the time of this ICR.

(ii) Management of the Niger River Management Office was modernized. This indicator
is partially achieved. Management Office reforms were consolidated through the
development and implementation of two tri-annual Contract Plans, reflecting consensus
among the Management Office, producers, and government on the work program and
budget of the Management Office. This subcomponent also financed the Management
Office's institutional and organizational audit and corresponding action plan, which


10This study took the lessons from the Koumouna pilot into consideration, particularly the fact that the
credit must cover the tertiary and not only the primary and the secondary canals, and reduced the
reimbursement to producers to 50 percent of the secondary and all of the tertiary canals.
11MCA: 13,000 hectares, WAEMU: 11,000 hectares.
                                                                                                     11

provides a road map for implementing additional management reforms. The plan could
serve as the basis for further support to the Management Office. During the project life, a
dynamic donors committee of the Niger River Management Office has assured a close
monitoring of the main activities.12

(iii) About 8,000 hectares of land have been developed. The target for this indicator was
exceeded: 9,077 hectares have been developed, with prospects for developing more than
20,000 additional hectares. The investments met national standards at a lower cost than
estimated in the PAD.

Subcomponent IB: Small-Scale Irrigation

This subcomponent is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

The subcomponent met institutional reforms and investment targets but the cost of
developing the first 550 hectares of land was much higher than expected.

(i) The subcomponent fully achieved its institutional objectives. The project had no
specific indicator for this assistance. In accordance with the PAD, the subcomponent
financed extensive training of the directorate's administrative staff, field agents, and
members of farmers' associations. The new, participatory strategy, available from the
beginning of the project, was fully applied,13 and this component was the first to integrate
women into the implementation and management of PPIVs. About 100 of nearly 771
hectares were allocated to women's groups, which received small grants to develop
microprojects.

(ii) The private sector rehabilitated and/or constructed at least 500 hectares of irrigated
land. The investment objective was more than fully attained, as 770.87 hectares were
rehabilitated or constructed, but as noted earlier, the investment cost of the first 550
hectares was 60 percent higher than expected. The project quickly revised the technical
specifications, which made it possible to reduce the cost of the last 200 hectares by 50
percent and thus match the PAD projections. Under cofinancing from the Netherlands,
the project later demonstrated that the cost of developing irrigated land could be reduced
even more by adopting a labor-intensive process with qualified supervision.14

Component II: Rural Transport Infrastructure

This component is rated Satisfactory.

The reforms consist of the transfer of management responsibility for the country's road
maintenance fund to an autonomous institution (the Road Authority) and the finalization
of a comprehensive national strategy of rural transport. The Road Authority was
successfully established and the planned investment program was delivered.




12 This committee followed up on the preparation of the main reform: irrigation, private funding
mechanism, organizational audit of ON, and contract plans.
13Local NGOs were used.
14The cost was divided by three.
                                                                                             12

(i) The Road Authority is operational and has financed the maintenance of at least
10,000 kilometers over a 12-month period. This indicator is fully achieved. Support to the
Road Authority helped the agency train its personnel, equip the office, and prepare the
operational and procurement manuals. The Road Authority became an independent,
efficient institution. It maintained 9,000 kilometers in 2006 and 2007, corresponding to
78 percent of the rural road maintenance program, against a planned 40 percent.
Privatization of road maintenance has become a reality and has helped create small and
medium enterprises in the transport sector.

(ii) The Borrower adopted a classification of roads commensurate with its
decentralization strategy. This indicator is fully met. A road classification manual was
issued.

(iii) A rural transport strategy and corresponding regulatory framework have been
adopted. This indicator is partially achieved. The Rural Transport Strategy was designed
through a highly participatory process which started in 2004 and was then tested and
validated in 2007 with pilot projects covering 200 kilometers of roads. Even though the
Rural Rransport Strategy is not yet adopted by the Government at the time of this ICR, its
recommendations have helped the Bank and the Government, under the Transport Sector
Program II, develop river transport which represents not only a source of income for the
rural population but also an important means of transport for people and marchandises.
The approaches developed for rural road maintenance, based on the service level and
local community involvement, are being experimented under the PCDA in which, out of
1,111 km of rural roads to be rehabilitated, 504 km have just been rehabilitated. The
Transport Sectoral Program II will pursue and consolidate this experience through its
rural road component.

(iv) Four hundred and seventy-two kilometers of regional rural roads have been
rehabilitated. The target for this indicator was exceeded. The component rehabilitated
513 kilometers of roads connecting the Niger River Management Office zone to
Koulikoro, Banamba, and Djenne in Mali as well as to Mauritanian markets. The roads
have benefitted people in these poor regions and have made it possible to serve 10 rural
communities that were formerly inaccessible because of flooding in the rainy season.

Component III: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation

This component is rated Satisfactory

The component successfully delivered the targeted institutional reforms and investment
program, making it highly likely Mali will meet the Millennium Development Goals for
rural water supply and sanitation. As a result, this effort currently benefits from support
by several donors. These positive results encouraged the Government and donors to
engage in a program approach, and to set up a common fund to finance studies for rural
water supply and sanitation15.




15First Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) of the Ministry of Water (2007-2010) and Sector
Expenditure Review.
                                                                                            13

(i) The Rural Water and Sanitation Strategy has been fully applied. This indicator is fully
met. The demand-driven rural water supply strategy was updated in 2007 to reflect the
lessons learned as the project was implemented. Training provided through this
component helped the local population use a participatory approach to plan and conduct
water supply projects as well as to maintain pumps.

(ii) At least 1,300 facilities providing safe drinking water have been constructed or
rehabilitated and at least 800 hand-operated pumps have been repaired. This indicator
has been surpassed. The project drilled 1,334 wells, of which 1,121 were productive and
equipped with 1,151 new water pumps. It provided 209 rehabilitated water pumps as well
as water supply systems for 24 small localities (out of 25 planned).

(iii) At least 95 percent of the facilities are operational and have adequate cost recovery.
This indicator is mainly met. About 90 percent of pumps are operational at any time. The
maintenance facilities and water fees established by beneficiaries are working, and costs
are being recovered.

(iv) At least 40 percent of families in villages where test latrines have been built have
built their own latrines. This indicator is partially met. Although 150 demonstration
latrines were financed and built, data are not available to determine whether the
demonstration latrines encouraged the further adoption of latrines in the villages.

Component IV: Environmental and Social Protection Measures

This Component is rated Satisfactory.

The Government of Mali introduced environmental norms and regulations into the
process of contracting for rural investments. The component drafted environmental
regulations, guides, and manuals for environmental assessment, which have been applied
and enforced. For first time, all activities undertaken under a project have complied with
environmental and social safeguards. Capacity of staff in the Ministry of Environment
was strengthened to monitor the application of safeguards. The component implemented
the main activities listed in the PAD; benefits for the poor varied by activity.

Component V: AGETIER

This component is rated Satisfactory.

This component supported the creation of AGETIER, a nonprofit organization, in 1999 to
stimulate rural investment, and AGETIER has become an outstanding, sustainable
procurement agency, not only in Mali but also in the subregion. The Agency has
successfully organized feasibility studies, purchased equipment, and implemented
investment projects. The agency fulfilled PAD expectations and in the course of a few
years has become the most important contractor for rural investment. Between 2001 and
2006, its yearly budget increased from CFAF 5 billion to CFAF 38 billion. It has
implemented most of the activities related to the small-scale irrigation and water supply
and sanitation components of PNIR. The Agency has also contracted for the Government
of Mali and many donors, including the African Development Bank, Dutch Embassy,
European Union, and the West African Economic and Monetary Union. The average

                                                                                         14

procurement delay was 75 days, against 6 months­12 months, and the average delay of
payment was 24 days. The Agency created 122,000 jobs, distributing CFAF 13 billion in
wages. The huge demand for the Agency's services started to exceed its capacity to
satisfy clients. To avoid further difficulties, AGETIER financed an organizational audit
in 2007 and started to prepare a management plan for its own development.


3.3     Efficiency

The economic rate of return (ERR) was evaluated for a sample of irrigated rice schemes
that were rehabilitated or developed by the project and were in their first year of
production. As expected, the rice schemes created new jobs for unskilled laborers
(representing an additional 25 person-days to 96 person-days per hectare), and they
provided substantial returns for family labor, ranging from CFAF 2,200 to CFAF 12,800
per day (compare these returns to the CFAF 750 per day paid to unskilled laborers in
urban areas). Even so, at the farmgate price for rice in 2007, the ERRs of the rehabilitated
or created plots were lower than the PAD estimates (see table). In Niger River
Management Office zone, ERRs were 27 percent in Koumouna and 14 percent in
Sokolo,16 compared to ERRs for PPIVs of 3 percent in Mopti and 7 percent in
Tombouctou. The low rate of return in the PPIVs is attributed to the high cost of the
initial investment, mentioned earlier, and the ERR is expected to improve on the 200
hectares of PPIVs developed at a lower cost. These perimeters will begin to be cultivated
in June 2008.

Following dramatic increases in the price of rice in the first few months of 2008, the ERR
of the rice schemes changed considerably. The market price of rice rose from CFAF 200­
250 per kilogram in December 2007 to CFAF 300 or even 400 in April and May 2008. At
the prevailing price during this period (CFAF 310 per kilogram of rice at the farmgate,
equivalent CFAF 199.5 per kilogram of paddy), the ERR went from 27 percent to 44
percent in Koumouna and from 14 percent to 33 percent in Sokolo. The ERRs for the
Mopti and Tombouctou PPIVs improved substantially, rising to 10 percent. Among the
newer PPIVs, the ERR is expected to exceed 12 percent.

Economic Rates of Return (ERR) for new or rehabilitated irrigated rice schemes in Mali

                                                           ERR in percent
Economic Rates of Return (ERR)              Koumouna      Sokolo      Mopti      Tombouctou
PAD estimates                                     14       16           18            18
Rice at December 2007 price                       27       14           3              7
Rice at April-May 2008 price                      44       33           10             9

Rice price switching values                      111       116         347            362

The PAD estimated that the ERR for the planned rehabilitation of three roads would be
between 12 percent and 14.9 percent. The most recent impact study conducted on the
transport component did not analyze traffic flow, but a complementary traffic survey will


16The ERR of the Sokolo and Koumouna schemes was evaluated using the Niger River Management
Office estimates of paddy yield at 6 tons per hectare.

                                                                                         15

be done to assess the change in traffic, vehicle operating costs, and the actual cost of the
roads. This survey will make it possible to calculate the ERR based on actual figures for
each variable in the original economic analysis. Based on the decline in transport time
and cost that has already been reported, however, it is likely that the variable for
increased traffic brought about by road rehabilitation (estimated in the PAD at 4 percent
per year) has been surpassed and that the actual ERR will exceed 12 percent.


3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The project is rated Satisfactory because all components fully achieved or surpassed
their investment objectives. In addition, the institutional objectives were fully achieved
by three components and by the Road Authority and partially achieved by two
components. Overall, the project helped improve the capacity of rural populations to
implement and manage sustainable economic infrastructure that will contribute to
improving their livelihoods.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

The PNIR produced a number of unanticipated positive outcomes and impacts. The most
important of these include:

  · The small-scale irrigation and environment components of the project were
       the first in Mali to bring gender disparities to the forefront as a matter of
       project policy. As a result, 10 percent of irrigated lands were allocated to women's
       associations, and women received a substantial amount of additional training and
       equipment.

  · Introduction of the M&E database as a work tool in the implementing
       directorates helped decision-makers to appreciate the advantages of having good
       information at hand. The M&E sections and the databases became incorporated
       into the administrative institutions.

  · The project fostered the experience of cooperation among central government
       institutions. The project created a forum where collaborating institutions could
       compare results and share experiences across the project's various components.

  · Partnerships were created among government agencies, the private sector,
       and project beneficiaries. The decentralization of administrative responsibilities
       and introduction of participatory management to the local development plans
       bridged the gap between the government and the people. It became obvious to the
       local administration that its objective was to assist local people and provide
       services.

  · Collaboration with donors was strengthened. All through the project life, a
       dynamic committee of the Niger River Management Office, led by the Dutch
       Embassy and including the French Cooperation (AFD), USAID, MCC, AFDB and
       the German Cooperation, assured a close monitoring of the Niger River
       Management Office activities.

  · New private services appeared. The project created opportunities for the private
       sector to deliver services that were once exclusive provided by government, such
                                                                                         16

       as marketing fertilizer, building irrigation infrastructure, and maintaining
       equipment. Local entrepreneurs had their first experience of bidding in a
       transparent and competitive market.


3.6     Summary of Findings of the Beneficiary Surveys and Stakeholder
        Workshops

The project financed two beneficiary surveys (2004 and 2006) and one institutional
impact survey (2007). The results show an increase in financial benefits and social
wellbeing from the project's investment. In January 2008, the PNIR held a five-day
workshop analyzing the project's results and impacts with beneficiary representatives,
government representatives, executing agencies, the PCC, and donors. The assessment
concluded that the project's objectives remain pertinent in light of Mali's current
development strategy, which is organized around rural development, and that all
components achieved the project's investment objectives, but the implementation of
activities supporting institutional objectives took longer than planned.


4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Risk to development outcome: Moderate. At the end of the project, the overall risk to
the development outcome remains moderate, although four critical aspects of the
approach developed under PNIR require further attention. First, the up-front contribution
to investments is a critical concern among beneficiaries, who prefer to make in-kind
contributions, and will require refinement based on a sound credit scheme. Second, the
provision of advisory services to farmers must be sustained and strengthened to ensure
stronger participation of beneficiaries in irrigation development and the optimal use of
investments. Third, infrastructure maintenance remains a concern all over the Niger River
Management Office area, mainly because of invasive plants and old irrigation canals that
require a thorough clean-up. Fourth, despite some progress, management of the water
levy is still largely driven by sociopolitical considerations.

Risk for the sustainability of PNIR objectives: Negligible (see table). Poverty
alleviation remains the core objective of the recently adopted Growth and Poverty
Reduction Strategy Framework. Despite the bureaucratic and socio-institutional hurdles,
the Government of Mali is committed to moving ahead and moving more rapidly with the
reform agenda for the Niger River Management Office. Recently the President decided to
connect the Management Office directly to his cabinet as a way to speed reforms,
discussions, and subsequent decisions at the highest level of government. Section 2.5 on
post-completion and the next section on risk of discontinuation explain how this
sustainability will be guaranteed.

Risk for the sustainability of PNIR objectives

Risk                                                          Probability  Importance
Renunciation of the institutional reforms                       Negligible     High
PNIR investment program is discontinued                         Negligible     High
Poverty reduction is not a priority                             Negligible     High
Overall rating                                                 Negligible     High
                                                                                       17

Risk of discontinuation: Negligible (see table). The risk that the program will not
continue is very low. A large number of donors are committed to further investments at
the Niger River Management Office. Total potential funding is almost 770 million dollars
for the next five years.

As mentioned in Section 2.5, further investments in feeder road improvement and
construction are financed under the recently initiated second Transport Sector Program
supported by the World Bank. A water supply program is currently being implemented
by the Ministry of Mining, Energy, and Water. The World Bank is not contributing directly
to this sector program, but the Bank-funded community-based rural development project
will finance small-scale water supply equipment through its demand-driven financing
mechanism.

Risk of Program discontinuation

 Risk                                                       Probability      Importance
 No donor for immediate financing                            Negligible       Moderate
 No national funds for immediate financing                   Moderate         Moderate
 No donor for financing in any time                          Negligible         High
 No national funds for financing in any time                 Negligible         High
 Overall rating                                              Negligible         High


5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance

(a) Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project was prepared between June 1996 and February 2000 by the Ministry of Rural
Development (MDR) and a World Bank team composed of 23 specialists. Negotiations
ended in May 2000 and the project became effective in June 2001. The quality at entry
assessment flagged five issues: (i) the two-year period of project preparation was too
long; (ii) coordination was lacking among the various sectors involved in the project; (iii)
preparation of the irrigation component was weak; (iv) too many strategic and sensitive
reforms were planned; and (v) the risk section did not raise the possibility that the
development objectives for irrigation and environment would not be reached.

Despite these issues, the positive contributions of the Task Team include the
incorporation of environmental considerations into all parts of the project, as well as the
incorporation of lessons from other projects into the design of PNIR (as mentioned,
involving beneficiaries in identifying and executing activities; establishing an
autonomous road maintenance institution; and training irrigation and water user
management committees to ensure the sustainability of the investments).


                                                                                        18

(b) Quality of supervision

Rating: Satisfactory.

The project was supervised by a Task Team Leader (TTL) based at World Bank
headquarters in Washington and a co-TTL in Bamako. Despite three rotations of TTLs,
having one co-TTL in Bamako ensured continuity of supervision. The project was
supervised by 14 joint World Bank and Government of Mali missions, with the
participation of key sector specialists. Each mission was followed by preparation of a
joint aide-memoire, including detailed action plans to address issues identified. World
Bank supervision was highly praised by the PCU and the Ministry, because supervision
missions also served as technical support missions. To reduce procurement delays caused
by the heavy workload of the procurement officer in Bamako, the supervision team
negotiated for procurement support from the Guinea-Conakry office, which had a lighter
workload. In addition, the team realized that the project was not a sufficiently strong or
suitable vehicle to implement sensitive reforms and negotiated with the Country
Management Unit (CMU) and the government to include reform of the Niger River
Management Office in the Development Policy Loan (DPL) and Poverty Reduction
Support Credit (PRSC) policy and actions matrices. This action spurred implementation
of the reforms and accounts for the positive change of the IP rating in the last
Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR).

(c) Justification of rating for overall Bank performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This rating is justified by the fact that the supervision successfully addressed the main
issues flagged in the assessment of quality at entry. A 16-month extension of the project
closing date helped mitigate effects of the delay in project effectiveness. The
multidisciplinary and participatory supervision helped break barriers between sectors.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a) Government performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Government of Mali assigned staff and provided equipment to the project as
requested by the PAD. The PCC was instrumental in mobilizing government agencies to
process documents and release funds more rapidly. The regional directorates involved in
the project collaborated efficiently with the PCU. Even so, the project was frequently
disrupted by a slow and complex bureaucracy that delayed the disbursement of
counterpart funding. The traditional approach of making decisions by consensus and the
two presidential and legislative elections that occurred during the project's life (2002 and
2007) slowed adoption of the main reforms. As explained previously, it took almost four
years to adopt the decree for the pilot land tenure program in Koumouna perimeter, and
the government's final adoption of the Rural Transport Strategy and Private Irrigation
Financing Mechanism is pending. (Although the Rural Transport Strategy was sent to the

                                                                                         19

Conseil des Ministres for adoption in March 2007, it was reviewed by the government
nine months later, after elections were held and a new cabinet formed.)

(b) Implementing agency's or agencies' performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The PCU provided excellent technical support, training, and collaboration with World
Bank staff, which helped PCU staff acquire solid expertise in project management and
which, in the second half of the project, speeded implementation. The PCU effectively
monitored the action plans developed through the supervision missions by regularly
meeting with all components. The strong leadership of the PCU and its efficiency
(reflected among other things by the fact that the operating costs of the implementing unit
were budgeted much above what was actually spent) made it possible to overcome some
of the difficulties inherent in such an ambitious and innovative project.

(c) Justification of rating for overall borrower performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

Despite the PCU's admirable performance, overall borrower performance is rated
Moderately Satisfactory. The Government of Mali fulfilled its obligations as outlined in
the Credit Agreement, and its involvement in project coordination contributed greatly to
achievement of the PDOs. However, the government's sluggish decision-making and
irregular payment of contractors delayed achievement of the institutional objective. In
addition, the Ministry of Agriculture neither ensured continuity in project follow-up nor
provided sufficient support to the PCU.

6.      Lessons Learned

Lessons of general application

Participatory projects covering several sectors are difficult to manage and supervise. To
be efficient, these projects should have a multisector coordinating body as a partner. In
the absence of such a partner, PNIR had to work with several counterpart institutions,
with the result that synergy among the project components was hard to maintain, and
crosscutting activities received less attention. Neither Project Coordination Committees
nor Steering Committees can replace a dedicated counterpart coordinating body, given
that the first two hold meetings only a few times each year.

Effective implementation of reforms required a realistic timeline to build capacity,
consensus, and government commitment. This process, which often takes more time than
expected, requires continuous policy dialogue.

Monitoring and evaluation is a strong management tool that should be operational after
the first year of project implementation. A system for M&E that is functional from the
project's initiation is critical to understand the impact of project interventions, identify
problems, and take corrective action. The M&E system should be set up and software
procured under the Project Preparation Fund
                                                                                         20

Project-specific lessons

The public­private partnership established for the new irrigation financing mechanism is
a good method of increasing the area developed for irrigated agriculture. This model
should be extended to various actors in a more cohesive manner. PNIR investments
should serve as a means of piloting a new agricultural development model, characterized
by new modalities of access to land and water that will ultimately make it possible to
create an official market for land and permit cofinancing of land settlement by
beneficiaries. The pilot undertaken for the project has demonstrated that, to be effective,
the package transferred to the private producer must include completely finished plots
(that is, plots in which tertiary canals exist) as well as access to credit, inputs, and
extension advice. In addition, the study of the irrigation funding mechanism and the pilot
in Koumouna showed that the Malian banking system is prepared to finance land
development when appropriate procedures are in place and producers have clear title to
their land. However, this approach needs to be monitored and its impact assessed with
respect to: (i) the feasibility of collecting the property tax on privatized land; and (ii) the
risk of land speculation and land ownership by a minority of people, which would
contradict the objective of reinforcing direct farming by family businesses.

Current procurement procedures at the Niger River Management Office do not
correspond to national objectives for irrigation development. Procedures applied to the
Niger River Management Office should be simplified, allowed for a less limited
threshold (as a comparison, the Mali Cotton Company is allowed to procure for more
than CFAF 40 billion whereas the Niger River Management Office is limited to CFAF 50
million), and be subject to stronger external controls in order to reach the assigned
development objectives.

Small-scale irrigation programs should overcome the difficulties involved in
decentralized, participatory implementation and reduce investment costs. The experience
of the PNIR shows that to remedy both drawbacks, projects may need to decentralize
investment supervisory bodies, create an apex producer organization to synchronize
investments and share experiences, employ producers in land development operations on
a food-for-work basis (more ownership and less cost), and foster the development of
private services for small-scale irrigation. The project may also have to promote creation
of regional coordinators of development initiatives that would advise those projects
operating in the region and ensure coordination and collaboration with local
administrations.

Multisector projects require greater financial and technical resources for supervision and
closer collaboration among different sectors under one TTL. It was very difficult to
supervise all sector specialists at the same time, and supervision had to be split into
several missions. In addition, because of the inadequate budget, the TTL had to organize
one full supervision mission and a light supervision mission each year. At the country
level, the project unit encountered difficulty in encouraging all sector ministries to
perform their duties in an efficient and timely manner.




                                                                                            21

The new agricultural operation with a sector wide approach will be particularly selective
in order to avoid all the weaknesses and lack of linkages between components
experienced during the PNIR implementation:

   (i) the new agricultural operation will build upon PNIR achievements and lessons in
   expanding large-scale irrigation at the Niger River Management Office and small-
   scale irrigation perimeters along the Niger River valley. In collaboration with other
   donors, it will consolidate institutional reforms initiated and supported by PNIR to
   help modernize the governance of the Niger River Management Office, rationalize
   the use of water, and strengthen private investments in irrigation by supporting the
   implementation of the irrigation private financing mechanism;

   (ii) the Road component activities are transfered to the Transport sector project. It is
   applying the rural transport strategy and implementing 2000 km of rural roads; and

   (iii) for the Water/Sanitation component, the lending instrument changed; the
   component is tranfered to PRSC series to encourage the Government sustain
   financing mechanism through the national budget.


7.     Comments on issues raised by the Borrower/ Implementing Agencies/
Partners

Comments from the Borrower were received (see annex 7) and relevant issues taken into
account.




                                                                                       22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


    (a)    Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)17

                                                                  Percentage Percentage
                      Appraisal Appraisal              Latest           of              of
                       Estimate       Estimate        Estimate     Appraisal       Appraisal
Components                Total          IDA            IDA           Total            IDA
Irrigation               66.6              53            53.6         80.48%        101.13%
Rural transport             26           23.3            29.3        112.69%        125.75%
infrastructure
Rural water              25.5            21.4            24.7         96.86%        115.42%
supply and
sanitation
Environment                6.9             5.7             1.7        24.64%          29.82%
AGETIER                    1.1             0.7             0.7        63.64%        100.00%
Implementation           11.9              9.7             4.1       34.45%*          42.27%
unit operating
costs
PPF refinancing            1.3             1.3                          0.00%           0.00%
Total project           139.3          115.1          114.1**         81.91%          99.13%
costs
Total financing         139.3          115.1
required
*The operating costs of the implementing unit budgeted much above what was actually spent, reflects the
  efficiency of the PCU.
**US$ 0.9 million included in this amount must be transferred to the National Budget; the bills were
  rejected by the World Bank services due to lack of funds.

    (b) Financing (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                         Type of           Appraisal        Latest      Percentage
Source of Funds                       Cofinancing          Estimate       Estimate           of
                                                                                        Appraisal
                                       Counterpart            17.1           15.3         89.60%
Government of Mali                       funding
IDA                                       Credit             115.1          114.1       103.40%
                                         Parallel
Other donors                            financing
Beneficiaries                           User fees              2.1           0.3*         15.20%
Total                                                          4.7           1.13         23.99%
* The beneficiaries provided mainly contribution in kind, except for the drinking water works for which
they provided 15% of the cost.




17The US$/CFAF average rate taken is 564.1.
                                                                                                    23

Annex 2. Outputs by component

Component I: Irrigation

The component is rated Moderately Satisfactory

Subcomponent IA: Large-Scale Irrigation Development at the Niger River
Management Office (US$56.8 million)

The subcomponent is rated Moderately Satisfactory

Subcomponent IA aimed to (i) pilot new capital cost collection mechanisms aimed at
accelerating irrigation development; (ii) pilot promotion of private investment in large-
scale irrigation schemes such as the Niger River Management Office; (iii) support
improved infrastructure management by training beneficiaries, rehabilitating degraded
irrigation perimeters, and constructing new ones; and (iv) strengthen environmental
monitoring. The subcomponent activities were grouped in six sections:

a. Lease-Purchase Irrigation Financing Mechanism (US$5.1 million). An autonomous,
    self-financing, privately managed irrigation development agency was created to be
    responsible for irrigated land and for collecting loan repayments from beneficiaries
    for further use in irrigation development. For this purpose, the project financed
    studies and workshops designed to define the private irrigation financing mechanism
    and the agency's profile. The project also financed the development of 390 hectares
    of irrigated perimeters to test the viability of an arrangement whereby private farmers
    cultivate plots of about three hectares and are responsible for maintaining the tertiary
    irrigation infrastructure, leveling plots, and paying water fees plus land rent (land
    rental fees will go toward the farmer's eventual purchase of the land). The project
    established 130 farmers on the land and helped them obtain credit from a branch of a
    rural bank, under a guarantee from the producer organization. This pilot should have
    been initiated in the first half of the project and finalized by its end, but the test plots
    will not come into production until June 2008 for several reasons: delays in arriving
    at the privatization formula; difficulties restructuring the Niger River Management
    Office; lengthy government decisions (for example, to adopt the decree reforming
    land tenure and to select private entrepreneurs to develop irrigation infrastructure);
    and the lack of credit to finalize tertiary works and fertilizer. The Private Irrigation
    Financing Mechanism has been finalized and but not adopted by the government at
    the time of this ICR. The mechanism capitalized on lessons learned through the pilot,
    particularly the importance of transferring plots with functioning tertiary canals to
    producers and ensuring access to credit, fertilizer, and extension advice. The
    financing mechanism is already being used by other donors investing in the Niger
    River Management Office zone. This section is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

b. Private Sector Development Pilot (US$4.0 million). The pilot targeted farmers willing
    to cultivate 30­90 hectares. It was intended to be carried out on 444 hectares and to
    test the private sector's capacity to invest fully in irrigation development. The project
    equipped 444 hectares with primary infrastructure. The remaining infrastructure

                                                                                             24

   investment was to be made by private entrepreneurs, but only one candidate was
   approved by the government during the project's life. By the end of 2007, the Niger
   River Management Office had selected other candidates. The results of this selection
   are approved by the Ministry of Agriculture. The pilot was not completed as of this
   ICR. This section is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

c. Other Rehabilitation/Development (US$43.7 million). The project financed the
   rehabilitation or development of other perimeters in the Niger River Management
   Office zone, excluding development of tertiary infrastructure, and the construction of
   new irrigation canals. The project supported the rehabilitation of 4850 hectares of
   perimeters and development and/or improvement of 1,638 hectares of perimeters
   (hors-casiers) in Sokolo. Additionally, in Koumouna it supported the provision of
   315 hectares for villagers voluntarily displaced by the project. Finally, in M'Béwani
   the project developed 1,440 hectares, thanks to the extension of the main canal by 5.8
   kilometers, the enlargement and extension of the secondary canal by 1.9 kilometers,
   the extension of the Massala drain by 5.7 kilometers and its resizing over 18
   kilometers, and the extension of the Costes-Ongoiba canal by 19 kilometers. This
   investment in extending irrigation schemes and infrastructure is valued in Mali.
   Overall, irrigation schemes were extended by 9,077 hectares (of 8,000 planned) at a
   lesser cost. The complementary works implemented (canal Coste Ongoiba
   enlargement) permitted to enable a further 20,000 hectares to be irrigated. The
   equipment provided for M&E and for training staff of the Niger River Management
   Office improved administrative management; the Management Office now has its
   own M&E section and a good database for equipment. Training improved the quality
   of the Office's extension and introduced farmers to principles of infrastructure
   maintenance. The extent of these improvements remains to be evaluated. This section
   is rated highly Satisfactory.

d. Niger River Management Office Capacity Building (US$0.7 million). The project
   financed supplementary equipment and training to strengthen the timely provision of
   financial information, the use of key financial indicators as management tools, and
   improve overall technical competence. The project computerized the M&E database
   and rehabilitated the M&E premises. It trained the Management Office staff and
   members of 2,525 zonal irrigation infrastructure management committees (OERT),
   trained farmers in maintaining tertiary infrastructure, and financed an organizational
   audit. The results of the training are not well documented. This section is rated
   Satisfactory.

e. Studies (US$1.8 million). Seven of nine studies were financed. Two engineering
   studies were used to prepare the M'Béwani irrigation schemes. The other studies have
   not been launched. This section is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

f. Applied Research (US$0.8 million). Research was confined to the National
   Committee for Agricultural Research and launched in 2007. The results were not
   available at ICR preparation. This section is rated Unsatisfactory.




                                                                                      25

Subcomponent IB: Small-Scale Irrigation (US$9.8 million)

The sub-component is rated Moderately Satisfactory

Subcomponent IB aimed to rehabilitate or develop PPIVs, improve their management,
reduce investment costs, and reinforce environmental protection. The component tested
the new National Irrigation Strategy approved by the government in October 1999.

In three poor regions of Mali near the Niger River, this subcomponent financed 770.87
hectares of PPIVs (more than the 500 hectares originally planned in the Credit
Agreement). The locations of PPIVs were determined through the participatory approach
envisioned in the strategy. The National Directorate for Rural Works staff who
coordinated the subcomponent gained familiarity with the strategy through an 86 person-
week training course and field visits. About 200 community members were trained in
participatory planning and irrigation management, and more than 400 technicians were
trained to maintain equipment and infrastructure. The irrigation associations were
supported by 15 NGOs hired by the project for 12 months, spread over three years.

The PPIV implementation was slow. Technical studies and investment plans were
approved only in 2004. Fieldwork ended in Tombouctou and Mopti in 2006 and in Gao in
2007. High investment costs (the cost of establishing the first 550 hectares was 60
percent higher than expected) arose from delays in construction (during which the CFAF
appreciated against the US dollar), the inappropriate design of irrigation canals, and civil
strife in Côte d'Ivoire, which disrupted the importation of material. Moreover,
recommendations in the PNIR Manual of Procedures (one hectare per farmer and
investment costs not higher than CFAF 4 million) were not followed. In many places, the
infrastructure was poorly conceived and has already been damaged by floodwater. The
technical evaluation of the investments and of the materials provided is not yet available,
since the producers were not adequately involved in the choice of the pumps, some of
which did not meet their expectations.

The project responded to the high costs by simplifying the technical specifications, which
reduced the cost of the last 200 hectares to PAD projections. A subsequent Dutch-funded
project managed by the same unit demonstrated that new plots could be constructed at the
lowest cost using a labor-intensive process and under qualified supervision.18 The impact
of this component on poverty alleviation was positive, given that crop production in areas
benefiting from the PPIVs rose and that new jobs (providing 39 person-days of work in
Mopti and 26 in Tombouctou) were created for unskilled workers as well as for
technicians servicing the irrigation equipment.

As requested in the PAD, 10 percent of the land was distributed among women's
associations. Ninety-one of these associations received transformation equipment.
Environmental considerations were also included in the terms of reference for the PPIV
investments. A social analysis of the beneficiaries was conducted but its
recommendations have not been implemented.



18The cost was three times lower.
                                                                                         26

Component II: Rural Transport Infrastructure (US$26.0 million)

The component is rated Satisfactory

Component II was designed to establish a Road Authority to conduct routine road
maintenance, support completion of the National Rural Transport Strategy, and finance
feeder road rehabilitation. The component rehabilitated the Road Authority premises,
provided office equipment, trained the personnel, and financed drafting of a manual of
procedures. This assistance is rated Satisfactory. The RA became an independent and
efficient institution: In 2006 and 2007, it maintained 9,000 kilometers of roads
representing 78 percent of the network requiring maintenance.

The Rural Transport Strategy was designed through a highly participatory process which
started in 2004 and was then tested and validated in 2007 with pilot projects covering 200
kilometers of roads. Even though the Rural Transport Strategy is not yet adopted by the
Government at the time of this ICR, its recommendations have helped the Bank and the
Government, under the Transport Sector Program II, develop river transport which
represents not only a source of income for the rural population but also an important
means of transport for people and marchandises. The approaches developed for rural
road maintenance based on the service level and local community involvement, are being
experimented under the PCDA in which, out of 1,111 km of rural roads to be
rehabilitated, 504 km have just been rehabilitated. The Transport Sectoral Program II will
pursue and consolidate this experience through its rural road component.. This assistance
is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

This component also rehabilitated three roads: Banamba­Niono (211 kilometers),
Djenne­Saye (60 kilometers), and Nara­Nioro (242 kilometers), respecting national
norms and the initial technical and financial specifications. The rehabilitated roads
became "Roads of National Interest," according to the new classification. Feeder road
rehabilitation is rated Satisfactory.

Component III: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (US$25.5 million)

The component is rated Satisfactory.

Component III aimed at strengthening the public and private sectors through training and
technical assistance, financing technical studies and civil works for up to 1,300 water
points, and contributing to health improvements for the rural population through better
management and delivery of sanitation services. This component tested the National
Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy, adopted in 2000, by implementing rural water
supply investments according to the strategy. More specifically, this component applied a
participatory approach during project formulation, investment execution, and
infrastructure exploitation and maintenance. The component considered only the requests
that corresponded to the community development plans, provided that the communities
collected 15 percent of the cost of the investment and created investment supervision and
water point management committees. The project produced maintenance manuals and
trained maintenance technicians. The equipment installed in the villages was standardized
across the country. This component also financed construction of 1,334 wells out of 800

                                                                                       27

  planned (1,121 were productive), installation of 1,115 pumps, renovation of 209 pumps,
  and provision of a pipe distribution network to 24 small localities.

  During implementation, communities were short of funds and did not contribute to the
  investment cost, which was to have been shared among the beneficiaries (5 percent), the
  communities (10 percent), and the project (85 percent). Instead, the beneficiaries amassed
  the 15 percent of the investment requested.

  During project implementation, it was agreed that education on sanitation and hygiene
  would be provided by the Ministry of Health (MS), but a formal agreement was never
  reached, and the component limited its activities to constructing 100 family latrines and
  50 community latrines to serve as demonstrations. By the end of the project, in November
  2007, the results achieved were used to update the National Water Supply and Sanitation
  Strategy. This component also financed studies that helped the government to prepare a
  national plan for integrated management of regional waters.

  This component equipped and updated the National Directorate for Water database,
  renovated and upgraded the water analysis laboratory, and financed studies that led to the
  updating of the National Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy in 2007.

  Component IV: Environmental and Social Protection Measures (US$6.9 million)

  The component is rated Satisfactory.

  Aimed at financing implementation of institutional and regulatory measures, studies,
  technical assistance, and investment, Component IV was designed to contribute to
  sustainable resource use, to support vulnerable social groups, facilitate voluntary
  relocation of villagers from two villages in the Niger River Management Office zone, and
  enhance women's participation in development. It integrated environmental protection
  and social considerations into the contracts of the enterprises responsible for developing
  road construction and irrigation schemes. To standardize and formalize the protective
  measures, this component prepared drafts of environmental regulations, guides, and
  manuals. These documents are still in draft form, awaiting government approval. The 59
  environmental and social protection activities can be divided into five groups:

a.    Institutional measures. The component evaluated the capacities of the National
      Directorate for Sanitation and Pollution and Nuisance Control, its regional
      directorates, and the agencies working with the PNIR. It also designed a multiyear
      training program, prepared an operational manual of environmental and social
      protection measures, and developed a follow-up program for the activities completed
      under this component. The component financed equipment and training for National
      Directorate for Sanitation and Pollution and Nuisance Control personnel.

b.    Regulatory measures. In 2002, this component signed an agreement with the Ministry
      of Health regarding the communities' participation in project activities. With the
      National Directorate for Rural Works, it prepared a plan to assist families working in
      the PPIVs and introduced environmental clauses concerning sexually transmitted
      diseases into project contracts.

c.    Studies and analyses. This component financed nine studies concerning the Niger
      River Management Office and two concerning the PPIVs.
                                                                                         28

d.   Environmental and social investments. In 2003, this component's agents, with other
     component representatives, evaluated compliance with environmental regulations by
     enterprises that had contracts with the project. Component funds were also used to
     build 2 villages in the Management Office area, 1 school, 1 literacy center, 1 health
     center, 1 building for a small rural bank, 8 wells, 1 cereal storage facility, 50
     improved stoves, and 50 hectares of tree plantation.

e.   Capacity building. To reinforce the M&E section at the Niger River Management
     Office, this component financed, on a temporary basis, employment of one
     environmentalist and one socioeconomist. The component provided training in
     environmental management and employment of social measures to 570 agents from
     National Directorate for Sanitation and Pollution and Nuisance Control and the
     National Directorate for Environment Protection (DNCN) as well as elected
     community representatives and some representatives of the local authorities.


  Measures implemented under this component introduced environmental follow-up of
  construction projects and evaluation of their social impacts. Training helped reduce the
  proportion of investment proposals rejected for noncompliance with environmental
  standards from 60 percent in 2004 to 25 percent in 2007. Training also helped reduce the
  time needed for administrative approval of proposals. The overall impact of the
  component in introducing environmental measures into the rural environment is hard to
  evaluate. An analysis of progress made in implementing environmental and social
  protection measures has not yet been prepared. The distribution of technical activities
  among the components further complicated the follow-up process.

  Component V: AGETIER (US$1.1 million)

  The component is rated Satisfactory.

  Component V aimed to support the establishment of AGETIER by providing start-up
  capital for equipment and organizing training in procurement and environmental and
  financial management. In 2001, the component provided AGETIER with CFAF 71
  million for operating costs and purchased one vehicle and office equipment. In 2002, the
  project financed travel expenses for regular staff; in 2003 and 2004, it financed the
  salaries and travel expenses of temporary staff. The project also financed 14 person-
  weeks of training in financial management, procurement, and M&E. Finally, the project
  financed AGETIER audits.

  AGETIER has developed rapidly. Its annual budget went from CFAF 5 billion in 2001 to
  38 billion in 2006. The Agency has also contracted for the government and for many
  other donors, including the African Development Bank, Dutch Embassy, European
  Union, and the West African Economic and Monetary Union. The average procurement
  time was 75 days, compared with 6-12 months, and the average time frame for payment
  was 24 days. The Agency created 122,000 jobs and distributed CFAF 13 billion in wages.
  However, AGETIER initially experienced difficulties because delays in transferring
  money from the National Treasury delayed payments to entrepreneurs and reduced the
  Agency's profits. In spite of this, the demand for the Agency's services started to exceed
  its capacity to satisfy clients. To avoid further difficulties, AGETIER financed an
  organizational audit in 2007 and started to prepare a management plan for its own
  development.
                                                                                         29

Component VI: Project Coordination and Program Monitoring (US$11.9 million)

Component VI was coordinated by a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) that
determined the orientation of activities, examined and approved the project's work
programs, and monitored the implementation of activities according to performance
indicators. The PCC was chaired by a representative of the Ministry of Rural
Development and composed of representatives of the Ministry of Commerce and
Transport (MCT), the Ministry of Environment and Sanitation (MEA), the Ministry of
Finance (MF), the Ministry of Public Works (MTP), the National Directorate for Rural
Works and Equipment (DNAER), the National Directorate for Sanitation and Pollution
and Nuisance Control, the National Directorate for the Local Collectivities (DNCL), the
National Directorate for Water, the National Directorate for Planning (DNP), the
National Directorate for Public Works (DNTP), the National Directorate for Public
Health (DNSP), the Niger River Management Office, the National Committee for
Agricultural Research, the Permanent Assembly of Malian Chambers of Agriculture
(APCAM), and the Association of Malian Municipalities (AMM). The PCC met every
six months to evaluate the project's progress and examine the work program. These
meetings helped ensure that project activities remained aligned with the PAD program,
according to the implementation capacity of its counterparts. They also served to inform
the PCC member institutions about the PNIR's progress, and facilitate approval of the
project's requests and the release of funds by the government.

Day-to-day coordination of the project was the responsibility of the PCU, which was
composed of a central coordination service (a unit coordinator and deputy, an accountant,
a procurement specialist, and auxiliary staff), and of the components' coordination
committees (two staff per component, plus technical staff). The PCU has worked in
excellent conditions, as the personnel were well trained, the offices well equipped, and
office space adequate. It advised the directorates and ministries on World Bank
administrative procedures, promoted the use of environmental and social protection
measures during project activities, and supported development of the M&E system.
Training of the PCU staff by the project helped them to acquire new experience in project
management, which translated into smooth collaboration with the World Bank and
national partners during the last three years of the project.

The M&E system was used mostly to follow the progress in implementation, but use of
the M&E system was far below its potential. The components' coordination staff and
field collaborators were overburdened with work, and while they regularly provided the
headquarters with basic information, other data were furnished intermittently.




                                                                                      30

Appendix 1 (Annex 2): Performance Indicators (According to Credit Agreement
Document ­ DCA)

                    Indicator                                    Execution at ICR
A Irrigation
Partial cost recovery-based irrigation            The Niger River Management Office is
mechanism is functional and recovery rate is at   installing the private owners; cost-recovery had
least 90%.                                        not started yet.
About 8,000 ha of land has been developed, of     9,077 ha were developed / rehabilitated in
which 1,000 ha pursuant to Part A1 (c) of the     Niger River Management Office, opening
Project.                                          20,000 ha of irrigated land; 770.87 ha out 8,00
                                                  ha planned were developed as PPIVs along
                                                  Niger Valley; the remaining land will be
                                                  funded by additional financing from PASAOP.
Private sector has rehabilitated and/or           The private sector has constructed 748 ha of
constructed at least 500 ha of irrigated land     small-scale irrigated land.
under Part A.2 of the Project.
Rural Transport
The Road Authority is operational and has         The Road Authority is operational and has
financed the maintenance of at least 10,000 km    financed maintenance of 9,000 km of roads
over a 12-month period.                           each year in the last two years.
The Borrower has adopted a classification of      The Borrower has adopted a new classification
roads, commensurate with the Borrower             commensurate with the drafted strategy.
decentralization strategy.
A rural transport strategy and respective         The Rural Transport Strategy was submitted to
regulatory framework have been adopted.           the government.
The roads referred to under Part B.3 of the       The referred roads have been rehabilitated.
Project have been rehabilitated.
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
At least 1,300 facilities providing safe drinking The project has drilled 1,334 wells (1,121 are
water have been constructed or rehabilitated      productive), installed water supply systems for
and at least 800 hand-operated pumps have         24 small localities, provided 1,115 pumps, and
been repaired.                                    rehabilitated 209 pumps.
At least 95% of the facilities referred to under  About 90% of pumps are operational at any
paragraph C.1 of this Schedule 5 are              moment. The cost recovery is adequate.
operational and have an adequate cost
recovery.
At least 40% of families living in villages       Only 150 demonstration latrines have been
where test latrines have been built under Part    installed.
C.3 (d) of the Project have built their own
latrines.




                                                                                               31

Appendix 2 (Annex 2): Key Performance Indicators for the Project Impact
(According to the Project Appraisal Document ­ PAD)


Overall Project Impact
A favorable percent change in irrigation       The investments made in irrigation and
beneficiary household income (compared to      cultivation of new perimeters resulted in
appraisal estimates).                          increasing the income from family labor
                                               between FCFA 2,200 and 12,800 per person
                                               per day compared to a minimum daily wage of
                                               FCFA 750 for unskilled labor in urban areas.
                                               The appraisal projection of increase in revenue
                                               was that the project would increase revenue
                                               from FCFA 2,000 per day to FCFA 3,800 per
                                               day, and this projection has been surpassed.
A reduction in transportation charges, as a     Transport costs have dropped by twenty to
result of better infrastructure.               forty percent along the new roads.
An increase in the number of new rural         About 540,000 additional people are
inhabitants who have access to and are in fact effectively using drinking water.
using drinking water (compared to the
projected 300,000 inhabitants).




                                                                                            32

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The PAD contains economic and financial evaluations of irrigation and transport
infrastructure.

Irrigation

Key assumptions at the evaluation were the following: a 20-year planning horizon; an
opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent; cropping intensity of 120 percent, starting from
the fifth year of exploitation; no economic cost for family labor; and economic price
conversion factors of 1.27 for paddy, 0.6 for fertilizer, and 0.7 for skilled labor. With
these assumptions, and taking into account the initially planned investment in the plots'
rehabilitation or development, the estimated ERRs were 14 percent in the Koumouna
zone of the Niger River Management Office, 16 percent in the Sokolo zone of the
Management Office, and 18 percent in the PPIVs in Mopti and Tombouctou.

At ICR, among the PNIR investments in rice schemes, only the rice plots in Sokolo and
Koumuna and PPIVs in the Mopti and Tombouctou had experienced one full growing
season. For this reason, the economic and financial analyses were done for only a sample
of plots from these four areas. Assumptions were similar to those of the PAD: a 20-year
planning horizon; 12 percent cost of capital; 120 percent cropping intensity starting from
the fifth year of exploitation; and no cost for family labor. Conversion Factors (CF)
between financial and economic prices were as follows:

                                                   CF
  Fuel                                            0.720
  Transportation                                  0.704
  Fertilizer                                      0.913
  Imported equipment                              0.706
  Payment to Niger River Management               0.828
  Office
  Payment to PPIV association                     0.645
  Initial project investment                      0.707
  Paddy in Niger River Management                 0.869
  Office
  Paddy in PPIV Mopti                             0.841
  Paddy in PPIV Tombouctou                        0.831
  CFAF shadow price                               1.020
  Skilled labor                                   1.020
  Unskilled labor                                 0.490

Koumouna: Newly created schemes; no prior production; paddy yield 6 tons per hectare,
according to the Niger River Management Office. ERR = 27 percent.

Sokolo: Rehabilitated schemes; paddy yield before rehabilitation estimated in the PAD at
4.5 tons. During the evaluation, according to the Niger River Management Office, the
average paddy yield was 6 tons per hectare; the incremental ERR was 14 percent.
                                                                                         33

Mopti (PPIV): Newly created schemes; no prior production; paddy yield 4.5 tons per
hectare. ERR = 3 percent.

Tombouctou (PPIV): Newly created schemes; no prior production; paddy yield 4.8 tons
per hectare. ERR = 7 percent.

The yield of the PPIVs was close to the 4.5 tons per hectare assumed in the PAD, but the
high initial investment cost was responsible for the low ERR. Reduction of the initial
investment by 55 percent in the PPIV in Mopti and by 30 percent in those in Tombouctou
may yield an ERR at the 12 percent level. Data from the next group of PPIV will confirm
whether the ERR improves.

The plots contributed to an increase in employment and provided incremental income for
owners and their families. There is a positive correlation between the irrigated scheme
surface and the number of family members (R2 between 0.751 and 0.120, depending on
the locality), which reduces the production surplus available for investment.

Financial and social benefits per hectare
                                              Sokolo Koumouna Mopti Tombouctou
 Jobs created for unskilled labor (person-      25        32          24         96
 days)
 Returns to family labor (CFAF 000s)           12.8      7.67         3.3        2.2

Changes that occurred in the rice market price during the first few months of 2008 have
changed the economic profitability of the irrigation investments. The farmgate price of
rice in Mali moved from about CFAF 200 per kilogram to CFAF 300 or even 400. At a
threshold of CFAF 350 per kilogram of rice (equivalent to CFAF 225 per kilogram of
paddy), all investments become economically justified (that is, the ERR is equal to or
higher than 12 percent). The ERR for other financial prices between CFAF 300 and 400
per kilogram and the threshold rice prices that make the investment economically feasible
are in the table below.

                   Farmgate price of rice           Economic Rates of Return (%)
     Price              (CFAF/kg)           Koumouna    Sokolo        Mopti     Tomboucto
   estimates                                                                       u
      PAD                 200-250              14         16            18         18
   estimates
     Rice at              200-250              27         14            3          7
   December
   2007 price
                             300               40         33            9          9
     Rice at                 310               44         33            10         9
 Current price
                             325               46         35            11         10
                             350               50         37            12         12
                             375               53         40            14         13
                             400               57         43            15         15

                  Threshold rice price for    111        116           347        362
                  economically feasible
                  investment (CFAF/kg)

                                                                                      34

Rural Transport

The PAD evaluated the ERR for the three roads to be rehabilitated at between 12 and
14.9 percent. The beneficiary survey did not analyze the traffic flow. A complementary
traffic survey will be done to assess the change in traffic, along with other variables in the
original ERR calculation in the PAD (vehicle operating cost and actual cost of roads),
which will make it possible to calculate the actual ERR, based on the original
methodology. However, with the decrease in transport time and cost and the increased
traffic brought about by road rehabilitation (an increase estimated in the PAD at 4 percent
per year and probably higher in actuality), the ERR is likely to be above 12 percent.




                                                                                           35

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Process

(a) Task Team Members

Lending

Name                   Title                                 Unit   Responsibility/Specialty

Eustacius Betubiza     Agricultural Economist                AFTR3  Task Team Leader
Abdelghani Inal        Sr. Highway Engineer                  AFTT2
Yao Badjo               Sr. Sanitary Engineer                AFTU2
Aubert Zohore          Sr. Financial Analyst/Feeder Roads    AFTT2
Peter Akari            Sanitary Engineer                     TWUWA
Francois Gadelle       Sr. Irrigation Engineer               AFTR3
Yeyande Sangho         Agricultural Economist                AFMML
Agadiou Dama           Agricultural Services Specialist      AFMML
Bernard Abeille         Sr. Procurement Specialist           AFTQK
Siaka Bakayoko         Financial Analyst                     AFTQK
Cheick A. T. Traore    Procurement Specialist                AFMML
Abdoulaye Coulibaly    Financial Specialist                  AFMML
Hans Wabnitz           Country Counsel                       LEGAF
Wendy Wakeman          Community Development Specialist      PREMGE
Arnaud Desmarchelier   Rural Transport Specialist            AFTT2
Wolfgang Chadab        Disbursement Officer                  LOAAF
Robert Robelus          Sr. Environmental Specialist         AFTEI
Dan Aronson             Pr. Social Scientist                 AFTII
Naima Hasci            Social Scientist                      AFTII
Claudio Gregorio       Irrigation Engineer                   FAO
Amadou Soumaila        Irrigation Engineer                   FAO
Didier Cornet           Agronomist                           FAO    Consultant
Alexandra Goffin       Language Program Assistant            AFTR3  COSTAB



Supervision

Name                    Title                                 Unit   Responsibility/Specialty

Abdoulaye Touré         Sr. Rural Development Specialist      AFTAR
Yao Badjo               Sr. Infrastructure Specialist         AFTU2
Salimata D. Folleta     Office manager                        AFTEN
Hugues Agoussou         Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTM
Amadou Konaré           Sr. Environmental Specialist          AFTEN
Cheick A.T.Traoré       Sr. Procurement Specialist            AFTPR
Siele Silue             Sr. Transport Specialist              AFTTR
Yeyandé Kasse Sangho    Sr. Operation Officer                 AFMML
Ijsbrand Harko de Jong  Sr. Water Resources Specialist        AFTWR
Nestor Coffi            Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Gnoleba         Mathieu Procurement Analyst                   AFTPC
Meguhe
Mahine Diop             Municipal Engineer
Tamar Bocoum            Team Assistant                        AFMML
François Onimus         Sr. Irrigation Specialist             AFTWR
Maimouna Mbow Fam       Financial Management Specialist       AFTFM
Virginie Vaselopulos    Language Program Assistant            AFTEN

                                                                                      36

Jean-Noel Guillossou      Sr. Transport Economist
Agadiou Dama              Agricultural Services Specialist           AFTAR
Johanes Geert Grijsen                                                AFTEG      Consultant
Robert A. Robelus                                                    AFTAR      Consultant /Environment
Noel Chabeuf                                                                    Task Team Leader
Bakary Kanté              Agricultural Specialist
Yvette Laure Djachechi    Socioenvironmental Specialist              AFTCS
Jean-Paul Lecomte         Water Resource Management Specialist       AFTWR
Souleymane Fofana         Operations Specialist                      AFTAR
Celestin Monga            Environment and Social Specialist          DECPR
John Buursink             Environment Specialist                     AFTQK      Consultant
Eustacius N. Betubiza     Lead Rural Development Specialist          ECSSD      Task Team Leader
Abdoulaye Coulibaly       Financial Management Specialist            AFTFM
Francois Gadelle          Sr. Irrigation Engineer
Ousmane Dione             Water and Sanitation Specialist            SASDN
Peter Akari                                                                     Consultant
Mamadou Tangara           Operation Specialist                       AFMML


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

              Stage of Project Cycle                                          US$ 000s (including
                                                       No. of staff weeks    travel and consultant
                                                                                     costs)

Lending

                      FY98                                                                 155.87

                      FY99                                                                 141.33
                      FY00                                           103                   429.92
                      FY01
                      FY02
                      FY03
                      FY04
                      FY05
                      FY06
                      FY07
                      FY08
                                             Total:                 103                   727.12


Supervision/ICR

                      FY98

                      FY99
                      FY00                                                                  0.10
                      FY01                                            44                   168.41
                      FY02                                            50                   158.01
                      FY03                                            45                   170.97
                      FY04                                            47                   200.50
                      FY05                                            57                   200.62
                      FY06                                            54                   134.21
                      FY07                                            49                   164.81
                      FY08                                            30                   129.51
                                             Total:                 376                   1327.14

                                                                                                 37

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The project financed two beneficiary surveys, one in 2004 and another in 2006, the
results of which complemented M&E data collected by PCU staff. Because one of the
project's objectives was institutional development, the beneficiary surveys were
complemented by an institutional impact survey organized in 2007.

The major findings of the 2004 survey were:

Irrigation
    · According to members of the zonal irrigation infrastructure management
        committees, the rehabilitated irrigated plots met farmers' expectations. The
        primary and secondary canals were well constructed and correctly maintained.

    · Farmers use fertilizer and do not store the harvest. Phytosanitary protection is a
        problem.

    · The Financial Internal Ratio of the rice plots was 30 percent.
    · On average, one family cultivates 2 hectares of irrigated rice and there are, on
        average, 20.1 persons per family.

    · The Niger River Management Office is an artificial environment where the
        population density should be limited to the environment's carrying capacity.


Transport
    · Most of inhabitants of the communities were satisfied with the road construction
        project, although they had not been previously consulted about it.

Rural water supply
    · The communities had prepared the development plans, including their water
        supply needs; the communities' representatives were informed about the new
        water supply strategy and were sensitized by the PNIR.

    · 61 percent of the communities had a water management committee.

    · Only 44 percent of individual respondents were aware that they had to contribute
        to the investment.


Environment
    · In the Niger River Management Office area, 85 percent of inhabitants are infected
        with bilharzias, and malaria is endemic.

    · A significant deficit of wood for fuel was forecast for 2005.
    · The increase in domestic animals was estimated at 21 percent per year.




                                                                                     38

The main findings of the 2006 survey were:

Irrigation
    · About 60 percent of the owners of the new irrigated plots visited stated that their
        revenue is higher now than before.

    · The period of food shortage among the new rice plot owners is shorter than before
        but still lasts for about 2 months.

    · About 70 percent of water points are in acceptable sanitary condition.
    · 95 percent of water points are overseen by a maintenance committee.
    · 38 percent of committees were trained; 30 percent of committees have a
        maintenance fund.


Transport
    · The new roads contributed to: the development of commerce; a reduction in the
        price of manufactured products; a 30­60 percent increase in the farm produce
        price; a 50­90 percent reduction in transport time; and a 20­40 percent reduction
        in transport cost.

Rural water supply
    · All new projects followed a participatory approach.
    · One water point benefits about 220 people.
    · 90 percent of beneficiaries transport and store water under hygienic conditions.

    · 60 percent of beneficiaries use latrines.
    · The pumps installed are operational 92 percent of the time.
    · Women hold marginal positions in the maintenance committees.


Environment
    · The shortage of wood for fuel is a key problem in the Niger River Management
        Office zone.

    · The survival rate of trees planted in Sokolo was only 15 percent, owing to damage
        by domestic animals; in other localities it was between 65 and 82 percent.

    · The survival rate of trees planted around the PPIVs and along the constructed
        road is very low.


The main findings of the 2007 institutional impact survey were:

Large-scale irrigation
    · The expectations expressed in the PAD that (i) the Niger River Management
        Office would be restructured by the project's mid-term mark and that (ii) private
        investment would be conclusively tested during the second half of the project
        were premature.


                                                                                      39

Small-scale irrigation
   · The National Directorate for Rural Works, which was responsible for small-scale
      irrigation development, is now well prepared to implement the expanded PPIVs.

Transport
   · The Road Authority was fully developed and staffed with competent personnel.

Rural water supply
   · The rural population is prepared to plan and execute the water supply program.
      Cofinancing by rural communities (rather than individual beneficiaries) is still a
      problem, and communities are notoriously short of funds. Maintenance is still a
      weak point.

AGETIER
   · The project successfully contributed to the development of AGETIER. The
      integrity of its staff, a reduction of the time need to process procurement
      documents, and timely payment to enterprises were widely recognized and
      appreciated.




                                                                                     40

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Starting on January 28, 2008, the PNIR held a five-day workshop analyzing the project's
results and impacts, with the participation of beneficiaries' representatives, government
representatives, executing agencies, the PCC, and donors.

Important results

Relevance of PNIR objectives

The project's objectives are still pertinent in light of the current Mali development
strategy, which is organized around rural development.

Project results
    · All components achieved the project's investment objectives, but the activities
        that targeted the institutional objectives took longer to implement than initially
        planned.

    · Subcomponent I developed 8,880 hectares of irrigated land and prepared the basis
        for the modern financial management of the Niger River Management Office.
        Subcomponent IB in particular financed implementation of PPIVs over 770
        hectares of land distributed to rural committees, covering about 1,500 families.
        Component II financed construction of 513 kilometers of roads and launched a
        200-kilometer pilot test of the new strategy that was drafted under the component
        in 2007.

    · The project fully achieved the objectives of Component III. The national strategy
        was tested and the project experience provided the opportunity for it to be
        updated. It implemented 1,121 productive wells, rehabilitated 113 pumps, and
        installed water pipe systems for 24 small localities.

    · Component IV strengthened national capacity to analyze environmental problems
        and introduced the consideration of environmental matters into all rural
        development activities.

    · Component V supported the newly established procurement agency that became a
        nationally recognized model agent in this field.

    · The difficulties hindering full achievement of the institutional objective were
        linked to the government's slow decision-making process. The Government also
        experienced some difficulties in releasing funds to finance project activities.


Factors influencing project implementation

Initially, implementation of project activities was slow. Delays were difficult to mitigate,
and to achieve the objectives, project implementation should have been extended for two
years. Activities were disrupted by:

    · Instability in Kidal region, where the project was expected to explore the use of
        groundwater for irrigation.

                                                                                        41

   · Armed conflict in Côte d'Ivoire, which erupted in 2002, and depreciation of the
       US dollar against the CFA franc in the same year.

   · Slow government decision-making with respect to examination and approval of
       the new strategies.

   · The absence of a decision on future development of the Niger River Management
       Office and complex administrative procedures.

   · The lack of smooth collaboration with the World Bank during the first three years
       of project execution.


Sustainability of investments

The project's results contributed to development of the decentralization process in Mali.
Execution of the investment programs in water supply and PPIV installation followed the
participatory principle of the beneficiary populations.

Conclusions and lessons
   · Implementation of participatory and multisector projects cannot adhere to a rigid
       calendar established at the onset of the project. Compared to single-sector
       projects, the coordination of activities that depend on several ministries is harder
       to manage. Supervision is more costly and requires more personnel.

   · The project invested in implementation of the PPIVs but did not test beneficiaries'
       capacity to ensure appropriate maintenance and maximize the productivity of their
       irrigation schemes. Follow-up of these investments should be ensured by the
       relevant directorate.

   · The extension of an invitation to the private sector to contribute to rural
       development was a worthwhile initiative of the PNIR and this experience should
       continue. To make participation more attractive to the private sector, the Niger
       River Management Office and the government should simplify procedures for
       granting access to land and credit and adjust the national institutional structures to
       accommodate private sector requirements.

   · To be effective, the promotion of women's participation should be incorporated
       into the project work plan. PPIV implementation is a good example of promoting
       women's participation in development projects.




                                                                                          42

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                                              43

44

Appendix 1 (Annex 7): Comments on Draft ICR (translated)



MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE                                            REPUBLIC OF MALI
              ------------                                    One People- One Goal-One Faith
OFFICE OF THE GENERAL SECRETARY                                          ------------
--------------
                                                                    Bamako, June 27, 2008

                                                              The Minister of Agriculture

To       The Country Manager
         Bamako

N° 0971/MA-SG-PNIR

Subject: Comments on the Implementation Completion Report of the National Rural
             Infrastructure Program (PNIR)


Dear Country Manager,

This is to acknowledge receipt of the Implementation Completion Report for the first
phase of the National Rural Infrastructure Program (PNIR), describing the objectives of
the project, the implementation experience and results achieved, major difficulties
encountered, lessons learned, and degree of achievement of performance indicators.

The report gives an accurate account of the results of the project activities undertaken
between June 2001 and December 2007.

We agree with the main conclusions of the report and the lessons learned:

-   the project has met its investment objectives and has achieved its institutional
    objectives for the most part;

-   the complexity of the project, its participatory approach, and its institutional design
    involving several ministerial cabinets have contributed to delays in decision-making,
    which explains the delays that have been encountered in the adoption of some sector
    policies and strategies;

-   the multi-sectoral nature of the project has made coordination more difficult and
    contributed to the high cost of supervision activities;

-   gender issues and environmental considerations were successfully addressed during
    project implementation and from now on will be mainstreamed in all future rural
    infrastructure projects;

-   the public-private partnership established to support implementation of rural
    infrastructure was a good initiative that deserves to be reinforced in future programs;


                                                                                         45

-   new financing mechanisms introduced by the project, especially the use of private
    funds to support investments in irrigation, should be taken up by other development
    partners in Mali;

-   the benefits generated by the project would have been greater had there been time to
    assess impacts beyond the first year of operation of irrigation infrastructure.


We would like to point out that project outcomes were seriously affected by factors that
were beyond the control of the Government, notably: (i) the crisis in Ivory Coast (the
major source of Malian imports), (ii) the declining value of the US dollar, which
effectively reduced the real value of the IDA contribution by about 20%, and (iii) the rise
in world oil prices. These factors contributed to a sharp increase in investment costs for
infrastructure and reduced the amount of funding available for other activities.

The Government would welcome continuing Bank support to pursue the initiative to
attract private-sector financing into the irrigation sector, and also to develop irrigation
capacity through a sustained program that would combine investment in infrastructure
with provision of extension services and stakeholder capacity building targeted at
producer organizations, private investors, and private services providers.

We would like to thank you for your collaboration throughout the implementation of this
project.

Best regards,


The Minister



Pr. Tiémoko SANGARE




                                                                                         46

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None




                                                                 47

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  1. AEPA-PNIR (2004). Manuel d'entretien et de maintenance des pompes à
      motricité humaine (PMH). 30 p
  2. ARCADIS EUROCONSULT (2006). Étude d'impact des activités du Programme
      PNIR. 78 p. plus 2 annexes.
  3. ARCADIS EUROCONSULT (2007). Rapport d'achèvement. Page 27.
  4. ARP Développement (2003). L'étude de modernisation et de mise à jour de la
      base SIGMA. 38 p.
  5. BRL-HYDROPACT (2004). Étude de mise en place d'un mécanisme de
      financement de l'irrigation. Rapport définitif. 80 p.
  6. Camara Ely (2005). Guide technique pour la réalisation des ouvrages et
      l'exploitation des installations d'alimentation en eau potable et d'assainissement.
      AEPA-PNIR. 56 p.
  7. Dave Benoit (2007). Office du Niger au Mali : les chiffres officiels de la
      production rizicole sont surestimés. Revue Trimestrielle de l'Université Mande
      Bukari. No 6:19 ­ 41.
  8. Dave Benoit (2007). Office du Niger au Mali : les chiffres officiels de la
      production rizicole sont surestimés. Revue Trimestrielle de l'Université Mande
      Bukari. No 6:19 ­ 41.
  9. DNR (2004). La Stratégie nationale pour le développement du transport rural
      /SNTR
  10. Etude du Schéma Directeur de Développement pour la Zone de l'Office du Niger
      (Etape Finale).
  11. Experco International (2005). Étude sur le développement et la gestion durable de
      l'Élevage pour une meilleure intégration agro-sylvo-pastorale dans la zone de
      l'Office du Niger. MA-BM-PNIR-ON. 129 p. plus annexes.
  12. MDR (2006). Programme national d'infrastructures rurales (PNIR) : Manuel de
      mise en oeuvre. Révision.
  13. MDRE, (1999). Étude Environnementale de la Zone de l'ON.
  14. MDR-ON (202). Aménagement des villages Zanfina et Komola. Rapport définitif.
  15. MMEE (2006). Politique nationale de l'eau. 72 p.
  16. MMEE (2007). Stratégie nationale de développement de l'alimentation en eau
      potable au Mali. Version provisoire préparée par S. Bouaré, consultant de la
      Banque africaine de développement. 68 p.
  17. MMEE-DNH (2001). PNIR composante alimentation en eau potable et
      assainissement. Manuel d'exécution. 58 p.
  18. MRT (2007). Document de stratégie du transport en milieu rural Synthèse
  19. PNIR (2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006). Rapports d'activité du PNIR.
  20. RM (1999). Stratégie nationale de Développement de l'Alimentation en eau
      potable et de l'Assainissement en milieu rural et semi-urbain.
  21. RM Journal officiel (2002). Code de l'eau. Loi No 02-006 du 31 janvier 2002.
  22. Schûttrumpf Rolf, Bôkkers Toon et Sangaré Adama (2007). Analyse du potentiel
      d'irrigation lors de la saison sèche dans la zone de l'Office du Niger. (Rapport
      provisoire).
  23. Tébini, H. (2003). Étude de renforcement des capacités du laboratoire de la
      qualité des eaux de la DNH. (2003) AEPA-PNIR. 58 p.

                                                                                      48

24. Tébini, H. (2003). Étude de renforcement des capacités du laboratoire de la
    qualité des eaux de la DNH. (2003) AEPA-PNIR. 58 p.
25. Tecsult (2006). Audit organisationnel de l'Office du Niger. Rapport provisoire.
    RM. 198 p. plus annexes
26. Touré Oumar Attaher (2003). Stratégie de communication du secteur eau. Rapport
    final. MMEE-DNH-EAPA/PNIR. 36 p. plus annexes.




                                                                                49

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's Completion Report (in French)


                                REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
                                 Un Peuple Un But Une Foi
                           MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTURE
                 PROGRAMME NATIONAL D'INFRASTRUCTURES
                                    RURALES (PNIR)


                         NOTE DE SYNTHESE DU RAPPORT
                              D'ACHEVEMENT DU PNIR 1

                                          Juin 2008
I - INTRODUCTION

Suite à la conférence nationale tenue en 1991, se sont tenus les états généraux du monde
rural à la suite desquels a été élaboré le Schéma Directeur de Développement du Secteur
Rural (SDDR) en 1992, basé sur neuf axes de développement dont le 2ème axe est le
programme national d'infrastructures rurales et d'équipements agricoles.
La phase 1 du Programme national d'infrastructures rurales (PNIR), d'un montant initial
de 139,9 millions de Dollars US approuvé en juin 2000, a pris fin le 31 décembre 2007.
Elle était conçue initialement comme la première étape d'un programme national de long
terme visant à accroître significativement le développement des infrastructures rurales.
Le PNIR était considéré au niveau de la Banque mondiale comme un prêt à programme
évolutif dont la seconde phase était subordonnée à l'atteinte d'indicateurs de performance
ayant pour objet de mesurer le degré de réalisation des objectifs institutionnels et
d'investissements pilotes durant la première phase.
Le PNIR s'insert dans le contexte du Cadre stratégique de lutte contre la pauvreté
(CSLP) et de celui de la décentralisation adoptés par le Gouvernement du Mali. Ses
objectifs et principes directeurs s'inscrivent dans le cadre des différentes politiques et
stratégies sectorielles dont relèvent les infrastructures rurales. Il s'agit notamment : (i) du
Schéma directeur de développement rural révisé en 2001, (ii) de la stratégie nationale de
développement de l'irrigation (SNDI) adoptée en octobre 1999, (iii) de la stratégie de
développement de l'AEPA en milieu rural et semi-urbain adopté en mars 2000 et (iv) de
la politique nationale de l'Environnement (PNE). Durant sa première phase, il devait
contribuer à tester et à améliorer les différentes stratégies sectorielles afin de créer un
environnement institutionnel propice au développement durable des infrastructures
rurales et à l'accroissement des investissements dans ce domaine.
Au terme de la première phase et conformément à l'Accord de crédit signé avec la
Banque mondiale, le Gouvernement du Mali doit produire un rapport d'achèvement du
projet six mois après la date de clôture du projet. Ce rapport a été élaboré et la présente
note en donne la synthèse notamment concernant les résultats atteints, les difficultés de
mise en oeuvre, la durabilité des actions, les leçons à tirer et les principales conclusions
.




                                                                                            50

II- RAPPEL DES OBJECTIFS ET COMPOSANTES DU PNIR

Le Programme national d'infrastructures rurales, PNIR, vise à faire reculer la pauvreté et
à améliorer les conditions de vie de la population rurale en accélérant la mise en place et
en renforçant la viabilité de l'infrastructure rurale de base.

2.1. Objectifs du PNIR
La phase I du PNIR avait deux objectifs spécifiques :
· un objectif institutionnel visant à aider le Gouvernement malien à mettre en place le
    cadre institutionnel nécessaire à la mise en place et à la gestion de l'infrastructure
    rurale. Dans ce cadre, le projet devait tester : des mécanismes de financement de
    l'irrigation et préciser une approche décentralisée, axée sur la demande, des
    programmes d'alimentation en eau et d'assainissement en milieu rural et
    d'infrastructures locales de transport, mettre en place un mécanisme de financement
    de l'entretien routier ; et
· un objectif d'investissement : pour financer des investissements pilotes/prioritaires
    d'accroissement des superficies irriguées (9 300 ha), de construction de pistes d'accès
    (472 Km), d'approvisionnement en eau (1 300 installations) et d'assainissement.

2.2. Rappel des composantes du PNIR 1
Le PNIR 1 était structuré en six grandes composantes :

2.2.1. Composante Irrigation constituée d'une sous-composante Développement de la
Grande irrigation en zone Office du Niger et la sous-composante Petite irrigation
villageoise exécuté par la Direction Nationale du Génie Rural.
(i)     La Sous-composante Grande irrigation couvre :

-   La mise en place d'un mécanisme de financement de l'irrigation avec la création
    d'une agence autonome de développement de l'irrigation et un système de
    recouvrement des coûts d'investissement ;
-   Un test d'installation d'investisseurs privés pour vérifier leur capacité à développer
    l'irrigation ;
-   Le Développement de l'irrigation en zone Office du Niger avec la réhabilitation du
    périmètre de Sokolo (5850 ha), l'agrandissement du canal Costes-Ongoïba (19 km),
    l'agrandissement et l'extension du distributeur de M'Béwani et du drain principal de
    Massala ;
-   Le renforcement des capacités de l'O.N. en matière de suivi-évaluation, passation de
    marchés, suivi environnemental, gestion financière et la formation des comités
    d'irrigants ; le financement d'études d'ingénierie (pour 7000 ha) et économiques sur
    la commercialisation du riz ;
-   La Recherche appliquée concernant des outils à moteur portables pouvant augmenter
    la productivité de la main d'oeuvre et         la préparation de référentiels technico-
    économiques sur les pratiques culturales, les méthodes d'irrigation et les matériels les
    mieux adaptés.
(ii) La Sous-composante Petite irrigation villageoise, comprenant :

-   Renforcement des capacités des différents acteurs : les associations de producteurs,
    les agents de la DNGR, les ONG et prestataires privés appuyant les PIV ;
-   Aménagements de périmètres irrigués villageois (1000 ha) équipés de motopompes à
    Mopti (500 ha), Tombouctou (250 ha) et Gao (250 ha) ;
                                                                                         51

-   Opération pilote de valorisation des eaux souterraines à Kidal pour l'agriculture
    irriguée ;
-   Intensification agricole au niveau des périmètres aménagés avec la mise en place
    d'un fonds de roulement au niveau de chaque PIV ;
-   Etudes pour explorer comment réduire les coûts d'investissement (fabrication locale
     de modules, vannes à glissière, importation de matériels moins onéreux).
2.2.2. Composante infrastructures de transport rural exécutée par la Direction des
routes, comprenant les volets suivants:
(i) Renforcement des capacités avec l'appui à l'Autorité routière pour l'entretien courant
     des pistes, la finalisation de la Stratégie de transport en milieu rural ;

(ii) Réhabilitation des pistes de desserte : 472,3 km de tronçons de piste (Banamba-
     Niono, Nara-Niono, Djenné-Mougna-Saye) relevant du programme routier d'urgence
     du Gouvernement.

(iii)2.2.3. Composante Alimentation en Eau Potable et Assainissement, exécutée par la
     DNH comprend les volets ci-après:
(iv)Renforcement des capacités des acteurs des secteurs publics et privés à travers des
     formations et des services d'assistance technique ;

(v) Développement de l'alimentation en eau potable des zones rurales à travers la
     réalisation de 1300 points d'eau équipés en milieu rural avec la possibilité de doter 25
     centres semi-urbains de système solaire d'adduction d'eau sommaire ;

(vi)Education sanitaire et hygiène du milieu comprenant la promotion des pratiques
     d'hygiène, et des techniques de construction de latrines.

2.2.4. Composante Environnement exécutée par la DNACPN, couvre :
(i)   Mesures institutionnelles portant sur la mise en place d'une cellule de suivi
      environnemental au niveau de l'Office du Niger, l'évaluation institutionnelle des
      départements ministériels chargés de l'environnement et la consultation périodique
      d'experts sur les aspects sociaux et environnementaux ;

(ii)  Mesures réglementaires nécessaires à une bonne gestion environnementale
      (mesures sanitaires, critères environnementaux et sociaux dans le cadre de la
      Stratégie de transport en milieu rural, évaluation des implications légales des
      engagements internationaux pris par le Mali et actualisation des clauses
      environnementales figurant dans les contrats d'infrastructures rurales) ;

(iii) Investissements environnementaux et sociaux accompagnant le développement des
      infrastructures rurales ;

(iv) Renforcement des capacités de toutes les parties impliquées (privé et public) sur les
      questions environnementales et sociales.

2.2.5. Composante AGETIER consiste à l'appui à la mise en place d'une Agence de
passation de marchés spécifique aux infrastructures rurales ;

2.2.6. Composante Gestion et coordination du projet, comprenant la mise en place d'un
Comité d'orientation pour le pilotage du projet et d'une Cellule légère de coordination et
de gestion.


                                                                                          52

III- PRINCIPAUX RESULATS DU PROJET

D'une façon générale, le projet a atteint et voire dépassé les objectifs d'investissements et
partiellement ses objectifs institutionnels qui restent encore non achevés au niveau de
certaines composantes.

3.1. Composante I : Irrigation
Les objectifs institutionnels de la composante reposent sur l'application des directives
institutionnelles de la stratégie de développement de l'irrigation tandis que ses objectifs
physiques devraient tester certains       principes visant l'accroissement des surfaces
aménagées, l'accélération du rythme d'aménagement, la réduction des coûts
d'investissement, la participation des bénéficiaires et l'installation des privés.
-       La composante I.A Grande Irrigation a permis au plan institutionnel, d'initier
des réformes importantes pour améliorer la capacité de financement de l'irrigation et
assurer la modernisation de la gestion financière et technique de l'ON. A cet effet elle a
définit un mécanisme de financement de l'irrigation en cours d'installation avec
l'élaboration des textes d'un organisme autonome de développent de l'irrigation, la mise
en place d'une opération pilote de location-vente de 390 ha aménagés à Koumana1 au
profit de 130 producteurs et une opération pilote de promotion des investissements privés
sur 444 ha aménagés à Koumouna 2 pour lesquels 10 candidats ont été sélectionnés. La
capacité d'intervention de l'Office du Niger a été améliorée à travers le renforcement de
sa cellule de suivi-évaluation, la formation de son personnel, de ses partenaires de terrain
(ONG, prestataires privés) et des membres des organisations des producteurs (comités
paritaires, OERT) ainsi qu'à travers la conduite d'études pour mieux cibler les problèmes
environnementaux spécifiques de sa zone. Concernant les réalisations physiques, le PNIR
a développé 9077ha de terres irriguées (soit 9,3% de plus que les objectifs prévus) dont
plus de 90% ont été mis en valeur pendant la campagne 2007 et a renforcé la capacité des
infrastructures structurantes d'irrigation et de drainage pour permettre la prise en charge
de certaines extensions de superficie dans la zone de l'O.N.
-       La composante I.B (Petite Irrigation ) : Au plan institutionnel, le PNIR a
permis à la Direction nationale du Génie rural d'asseoir une approche participative et
décentralisée de développement des PPIV et de mettre à la disposition de tous les acteurs
des normes d'aménagement spécifiques en la matière, prenant en compte
l'environnement. Il a également initié un partenariat fécond entre les services
déconcentrés (DRGR) du génie rural, les prestataires privés, les ONG et les bénéficiaires
dans la mise en oeuvre des activités de la sous-composante. Physiquement il a été
réalisé 770 ha de PPIV sur 1000 ha prévus (soit un taux d'exécution de 77%) et des
équipements pour une vingtaine de périmètres maraîchers pour des groupements féminins
permettant ainsi à près de 1500 familles agricoles d'améliorer leurs revenus en produisant
du riz et des produits maraîchers. A travers plusieurs sessions de formation, le projet a
contribué à l'amélioration de la capacité des différents acteurs notamment les cadres du
génie rural (niveau national, régional et local), les prestataires privés (agents des ONG,
mécaniciens de motopompe, paysans opérateurs de motopompes) et les membres des
comités de gestion des périmètres irrigués réalisés avec l'appui de la FAO.




                                                                                         53

3.2. Composante II : Transport rural
Au plan institutionnel         l'appui du projet à l'Autorité routière, a contribué
substantiellement à l'amélioration de l'entretien routier avec le fonds d'entretien crée à
cet effet; il a renforcé la capacité opérationnelle de la Direction des Routes (DNR) à
travers la formation d'une partie du
personnel, la réhabilitation des locaux, l'équipement complémentaire des bureaux ; Il a
aussi permis à la DNR de se doter d'une Stratégie nationale des transports ruraux,
élaborée et enrichie après des tests sur quelques infrastructures de transport rural. Cette
stratégie reste à être soumise à l'approbation du Gouvernement. Concernant les résultats
physiques, il a été réalisé 513 km de pistes rurales (soit 109% des prévisions) et 200 km
de pistes additionnelles sous forme de projets pilotes qui ont permis de tester la mise en
oeuvre de la stratégie de transport en milieu rural.

3.3. Composante III: AEPA en milieu rural
Le PNIR a pleinement réalisé ses objectifs dans le domaine AEPA. En effet, la nouvelle
stratégie qui a été adoptée avec le lancement du PNIR en 2000 a été testée au niveau des
activités du projet et une nouvelle version de la stratégie, enrichie par l'expérience du
projet, a été adopté par le Gouvernement en 2007 ; la composante a permis de mettre à
jour la base de données SIGMA, de renforcer la capacité de la Direction de l'Hydraulique
et de ses services déconcentrés au niveau régional à travers plusieurs formations et des
appuis en matériels et équipements. Le Projet a amélioré la capacité des bénéficiaires et
des prestataires privés à travers des formations et la mise à disposition de manuels
d'entretien des pompes. Il a permis aux communes rurales d'assurer effectivement la
maîtrise d'ouvrage des investissements et de passer des marchés de points d'eau dans
leurs territoires respectifs. Les résultats physiques sont constitués de : (i) 1121 forages
productifs équipés de pompes à motricité humaine (sur 850 prévus), 24 adductions d'eau
sommaires installés et 113 pompes à motricité humaine réhabilitées procurant ainsi de
l'eau potable à près d'un demi million de personnes en milieu rural ; et (ii) 8 latrines (4
familiales et 4 publiques) avec formation conséquente des maçons locaux, qui ont permis
d'attirer la conscience des bénéficiaires ruraux sur l'amélioration des conditions
d'hygiène.

3.4. Composante IV : Mesures de protection environnementale et sociale
Elle a permis de renforcer les capacités de tous les acteurs en matière d'analyse
environnementale et d'introduire pour la première fois l'intégration de la dimension
environnementale de manière systématique dans toutes les activités financées par le
projet. Elle a outillé les différentes directions en charge des infrastructures rurales et les
autres acteurs de manuel d'opération des mesures de protection environnementale et
sociale et de guides sectoriels de mesures environnementales élaborés dans le cadre des
activités du projet. Elle a également permis d'intégrer la prise en compte du genre dans
le développement des infrastructures et de rendre visible la place des femmes au niveau
des périmètres irrigués et de la gestion des points d'eau potable. Le PNIR a contribué
fortement à l'installation de la DNACPN et de ses services déconcentrés au niveau des 6
régions couvertes à travers la formation du personnel, l'équipement et la réhabilitation
des bureaux, l'acquisition de matériels roulants et l'opportunité offerte pour l'exercice de
leur mission publique avec les activités du projet.




                                                                                           54

3.5. Composante V : AGETIER

Le PNIR a appuyé la mise en place d'une agence de passation de marchés de travaux
d'infrastructures rurales afin d'accélérer la réalisation des infrastructures rurales
notamment d'irrigation conformément à la Stratégie nationale d'irrigation. L'AGETIER
est opérationnelle et est devenue un instrument national reconnu avec un chiffre d'affaire
croissant qui était d'environ 42 milliards FCFA en 2007 contre 5 milliards de FCFA à sa
première année d'activité en 2001. Elle a fortement contribué à la réalisation des
différentes infrastructures rurales au niveau national et est actuellement utilisée par
plusieurs partenaires techniques et financiers du Mali ainsi que par les collectivités
décentralisées et les services de l'Etat.

3.6. Composante VI : Gestion du Projet

3.6.1. Pilotage et coordination
Un Comité d'orientation présidé par le Ministre de l'agriculture regroupant 5 ministères
sectoriels (au lieu de 3 à la préparation du projet), les directions sectorielles concernées,
les représentants des collectivités territoriales et de la société civile a été mis en place
pour le pilotage du projet. Le Comité avait tenu régulièrement ses réunions semestrielles
pour examiner les plans de travail et budget annuels ainsi que l'état d'avancement du
projet et avait donné à chaque fois les orientations nécessaires. La Cellule de
Coordination devant assurer la coordination, le suivi-évaluation et la gestion financière
du projet (excepté la partie Office du Niger) avait pleinement joué son rôle et avait
permis d'asseoir une approche intégrée et participative de développement des
infrastructures rurales au niveau des différentes directions techniques sectorielles
impliquées dans la mise en oeuvre du projet. Elle avait mis en place un système de gestion
informatisée et un système efficace de suivi-évaluation permettant de mesurer les
performances des différentes composantes. Elle avait aussi assisté les agences
d'exécution des composantes dans la planification et l'exécution des activités ainsi que
dans le renforcement des capacités de leurs personnels. La Cellule avait régulièrement
assuré la préparation et la consolidation du plan de travail et budget annuels, la
consolidation des rapports d'avancement du projet, l'organisation et la conduite des
missions conjointes de supervision (bailleurs &Gouvernement) du projet, l'organisation
et le secrétariat du Comité d'orientation du programme. Enfin elle a organisé et facilité
les concertations entre le Ministère de l'Agriculture et les bailleurs de fonds sur les
questions de l'agriculture irriguée.




                                                                                          55

3.6.2. Financement et coût d'exécution
Le coût initial global du programme était de 139,3 millions de dollars Etats Unis (soit
97,51 milliards de FCFA au taux de 700 FCFA/1$) réparti entre : (i) IDA : 115,1 millions
de dollars (80,57 milliards FCFA) ; (ii) Etat à travers BSI : 17,4 millions de dollars
(12,18 milliards FCFA) ; (iii) Bénéficiaires : 4,6 millions dollars (3,22 milliards FCFA) ;
et (iii) Coopération Néerlandaise : 2,2 millions de dollars (1,54 milliards FCFA). Au
moment de la préparation, le projet a bénéficié d'un don du Gouvernement japonais de
400 000 Dollars US, pour financer les études et ateliers nécessaires à la formulation des
stratégies sectorielles (irrigation, eau potable..) en plus des fonds de préparation du projet
tirés par avance sur le crédit IDA. A l'exécution du projet le montant initial a connu une
réduction importante en raison de l'impact de l'effondrement du Dollar sur la
contribution de l'IDA et des changements dans les montants alloués par les autres
bailleurs.
Ainsi à la clôture du projet, le montant total effectivement décaissé était de 74,710
Milliards de FCFA dont 85,7% constitués de fonds IDA, 9% issus du Trésor public, 4,5%
du Fonds Néerlandais et moins de 1% des bénéficiaires. La part de l'IDA a été réduite de
16,5 milliards de FCFA en raison de la chute du Dollar. Par contre la contribution des
Pays Bas a été augmentée par rapport aux prévisions et il reste des reliquats de fonds pour
financer les activités du projet SAPI de Mopti et de l'assistance technique qui continuent
après la clôture du PNIR1. La participation des bénéficiaires a connu aussi une
augmentation en raison des coûts élevés des marchés des travaux et des aménagements
des réseaux tertiaires clé à main (à crédit) au profit des producteurs de Sokolo et
Koumouna1 mais les remboursements étaient très faibles à la clôture du projet.
Concernant la contribution de l'Etat, la différence entre les montants effectivement
alloués et la prévision du PAD s'explique surtout par les taxes renoncées par l'Etat et
dans une moindre mesure à des coupures budgétaires. Des sommes importantes restent
encore impayées (1,398 milliard par rapport aux allocations) au niveau du Trésor public.

3.7. Bénéfices et performances du projet
Les bénéfices et impacts du projet ont fait l'objet d'évaluations ponctuelles en 2004, 2006
et 2007. Les résultats de ces différentes évaluations montrent une amélioration des
revenus des bénéficiaires des périmètres irrigués et du bien être social             mais les
conditions environnementales restent à améliorer en zone Office du Niger.

3.7.1. Bénéfices engendrés
Dans ce cadre, les évaluations étaient faites uniquement pour l'irrigation. Au niveau du
périmètre réhabilité de Sokolo et du périmètre de M'Béwani, des résultats encourageants
étaient obtenus dès la première année d'exploitation avec une augmentation de revenu
respectivement de 2,5 à environ 8 fois la situation sans projet et des taux de rentabilité
interne (calculé uniquement sur le riz) de 7,5 à 12,5%. Pour la petite irrigation,
l'évaluation des premiers résultats montrent une nette amélioration des rendements et du
revenu net à l'hectare (3,8 fois de celui avant le projet) mais la rentabilité financière est
mitigée en raison des coûts d'investissement élevés.
D'autres bénéfices ont été engendrés par le projet dont les principaux concernent :
-   La mise à disposition de près de 9 300 ha de périmètres irrigués avec une capacité de
    production de près de 50 000 tonnes de riz paddy en moyenne en saison hivernale ;



                                                                                          56

-   La réduction des coûts de transport de 20 à 40% et la réduction du temps de transport
    de 59 à 90% dans les différentes zones desservies par les pistes réalisées dans le cadre
    du projet ;
-   L'amélioration de l'accès à l'eau potable pour 450 000 habitants des villages et
    centres semi-urbains des zones couvertes par la composante AEPA du projet ;
-   L'allègement de la corvée d'eau, l'amélioration de l'accès à la terre et la sécurisation
    des revenus des femmes des zones couvertes par le projet ;
-   Le renforcement des comités d'usagers d'eau, des autorités communales, des
    intermédiaires sociaux et des services locaux donnant une grande assurance pour la
    durabilité des investissements ;
-   Le respect de l'environnement dans le développement des infrastructures avec
    l'instauration de clauses environnementales dans les cahiers de charge des travaux
    d'infrastructures rurales et la réalisation d'actions d'atténuation ;
-   Les opportunités de travail créées en faveur de milliers de jeunes lors des études et
    des travaux d'exécution des infrastructures ainsi que pendant la phase de leur
    exploitation.

3.7.2. Performances du PNIR 1
Dans l'ensemble, les indicateurs de réalisation de l'objectif d'investissement et d'impact
d'ensemble du projet ont été atteints par contre les indicateurs concernant les aspects
institutionnels ont été partiellement satisfaits car des réformes restent encore à finaliser
dans le sous-secteur de l'irrigation et la nouvelle stratégie du transport en milieu rural
élaborée avec l'appui du projet n'a pas été adoptée.
Par rapport aux critères de passage à la seconde phase du PNIR initialement défini dans
le PAD, les résultats atteints sont globalement satisfaisants avec une certaine variation
par composante.
Au niveau de l'irrigation, sur les quatre critères à remplir (application de la nouvelle
stratégie, achèvement des travaux de réhabilitation pour 9300 ha, exécution d'une étude
sur l'amélioration des conditions de drainage à l'Office de Niger et achèvement de
l'étude sur la réduction des coûts d'investissement des périmètres irrigués), trois ont été
satisfaits et il ne reste plus que certains aspects du mécanisme de financement
(installation des investisseurs privés, reformes à l'Office du Niger, création d'agence
autonome et le recouvrement des coûts) à terminer.
S'agissant du transport en milieu rural, deux critères (reclassement des pistes,
fonctionnement satisfaisant de l'Autorité routière en termes de la régularité des entretiens
routiers et d'efficacité) sur trois ont été satisfaits. Il reste l'adoption de la Stratégie
National du transport en milieu rural, qui a été élaborée dans le cadre du projet.
Au niveau de la composante AEPA en milieu rural, les trois critères à remplir
(application de l'approche à la demande, standardisation des pompes manuelles,
décentralisation des fonctions de suivi et d'appui de la DNH) ont été entièrement
satisfaits.
Enfin concernant le respect des principes de sauvegarde de la société et de
l'environnement de la Banque Mondiale et de la législation environnementale du Mali,
des progrès significatifs ont été atteints notamment en termes d'information-
sensibilisation, de prise en compte de clauses spécifiques à l'environnement dans les
marchés de travaux d'infrastructures rurales et de renforcement des capacités des acteurs
dans le suivi des normes environnementales. En zone Office du Niger, il y a eu une
meilleure clarification des problèmes environnementaux (ex : élevage, bois de chauffe,


                                                                                         57

drainage) et les impacts des extensions de superficies irriguées deviennent lourds et très
coûteux à atténuer.

IV- FACTEURS MAJEURS AYANT INFLUENCE LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PNIR 1

Durant la période d'exécution de la première phase (2000 à 2007), quatre facteurs
exogènes ont affecté la réalisation des objectifs du projet, indépendamment de la volonté
des acteurs. Il s'agit :
(i)  du conflit armé de la Côte d'Ivoire démarré en 2001 qui a provoqué une
     augmentation de prix du matériel d'irrigation et du carburant avec comme
     conséquence, le renchérissement des coûts d'investissement ;
(ii) du climat d'insécurité entretenu par des groupes armés dans la région de Kidal
     pendant toute la durée du projet qui a empêché de finaliser l'opération pilote
     d'exploitation des eaux souterraines à Kidal ;
(iii) de l'effondrement de la valeur du dollar par rapport au franc CFA, qui est passée de
     736 francs CFA pour un dollar en 2001 à 478 francs en 2007 avec comme
     conséquence une réduction des fonds disponibles pour l'exécution du projet ;
(iv) de l'augmentation continue des coûts du carburant sur le marché international avec
      ses conséquences sur les coûts des transports et des matériaux et équipements.

Mis à part ces facteurs exogènes, l'exécution du projet a été influencée par le rythme de
travail au niveau des agences d'exécution et des circuits de décision. En dépit du
dévouement du personnel du projet à tous les niveaux, la mise en ouvre des activités a été
contrarié par :
(i)   les lourdeurs administratives : complexité des procédures, longs délais de traitement
      des dossiers et retards dans les paiements des factures des travaux exécutés ;
(ii) La centralisation de la gestion financière du projet concernant les composantes
      autres que celle de l'Office du Niger ;
(iii) La nature de l'approche d'intervention du projet basée sur la demande et la
      participation effective des bénéficiaires, qui requiert beaucoup d'efforts
      d'information et de concertation avec comme conséquence de longs délais de mise
      en oeuvre ;
(iv) les lenteurs enregistrées dans l'élaboration et la validation des stratégies et des
      textes réglementaires ont retardé l'exécution des composantes II (routes) et IV
      (protection environnementale) ;
(v)   la faible capacité des entreprises nationales de travaux publics se traduisant très
      souvent par de longs délais d'exécution ;
(vi) la complexité et le caractère pilote des opérations d'installation des privés ainsi que
      l'absence d'harmonisation avec les autres partenaires de l'Office du Niger, ayant
      fortement retardé la conduite des tests;
(vii) La difficulté de mobiliser la contrepartie des bénéficiaires notamment au niveau des
      infrastructures d'irrigation et d'AEPA.

Par ailleurs le PNIR a souffert également de la lenteur d'approbation des propositions des
dépenses du projet et des avis de non objection par la Banque Mondiale ainsi que des
changements fréquents des chargés de projet au niveau de cette institution financière.




                                                                                         58

V ­ DURABILITE DU PROJET

Les résultats de la première phase du PNIR ont contribué de manière durable au
renforcement et à la responsabilisation des collectivités décentralisés et des bénéficiaires
dans la planification et la mise en oeuvre des infrastructures rurales nécessaires à leur
développement économique et social.
Les bénéficiaires et les communes rurales ont décidé de la nature des investissements
demandés et ont participé à tous les stades, de la planification à la mise en service des
infrastructures. Les collectivités décentralisées et l'administration locale ont été associées
à toutes les étapes (validation des choix, planification des activités, supervision des
réalisations, réception des infrastructures et accompagnement des bénéficiaires....) et ont
coordonné les investissements avec les différentes agences d'exécution du projet.

Après la réception des travaux, les bénéficiaires se sont organisés pour l'exploitation et
l'entretien des infrastructures et ont mis en place des comités de gestion. Les acteurs
privés notamment de proximité ont été mobilisés, ils avaient assisté les bénéficiaires dans
la formulation de leurs sous-projets, dans l'exécution et l'exploitation de leurs
infrastructures.
Ainsi, le projet a créé les conditions favorables pour une appropriation des résultats et a
consolidé les relations bénéficiaires-secteur privé d'une part et d'autre part les relations
secteur public-secteur-privé.

En revanche la livraison tardive de certains investissements (PIV, périmètres privés O.N.,
tests pilotes des pistes et autres infrastructures de transport, AEPA) n'a pas permis de
mesurer la capacité des bénéficiaires à exploiter, entretenir et épargner pour les
amortissements de leurs infrastructures.
L'adhésion des bénéficiaires à l'approche du projet a été effective et ces derniers avaient
exprimé fortement un désir de prendre en charge leur propre développement de concert
avec leurs institutions locales.

VI - LECONS A TIRER

Les résultats de la première phase du PNIR ont permis de tirer des enseignements
intéressants concernant la mise en oeuvre d'un programme aussi complexe comme le
PNIR :
i. Le caractère multisectoriel du PNIR a fortement marqué son exécution qui a été
    entachée de grandes difficultés de coordination des activités relevant de plusieurs
    ministères avec comme conséquence de longs processus de décision. Il en résulte des
    supervisons très coûteuses demandant un budget plus important qui n'est pas toujours
    disponible ;
ii. La méthode d'intervention du projet, basée sur la demande et l'approche
    participative se traduit forcement par des retards et des délais d'exécution assez
    longs mais par contre elle se solde par une appropriation effective de la démarche et
    des infrastructures par les bénéficiaires. L'expérience du PNIR 1 est une
    démonstration évidente que l'approche participative est un facteur de garantie pour la
    responsabilisation des bénéficiaires et la durabilité des investissements ;
iii. La durabilité des investissements ne dépend pas seulement de l'appropriation et de
     la bonne organisation des bénéficiaires pour leur prise en charge, mais aussi de la

                                                                                           59

     simplicité, de la facilité de gestion et des coûts des technologies introduites, toutes
    choses indispensables pour garantir les entretiens des infrastructures réalisées. Ainsi
    la livraison tardive de certaines infrastructures (PPIV, pistes rurales) n'a pas permis
    au projet de s'assurer de la capacité des bénéficiaires à les entretenir et à prévoir leurs
    amortissements surtout au regard de leurs          coûts de réalisation particulièrement
    élevés ;
iv. L'élaboration des stratégies et des reformes institutionnelles et leur adoption
    demandent beaucoup plus de temps que prévu et dépasse la durée d'exécution
    normale d'une phase de programme. Le processus de validation et d'adoption dépasse
    en effet le niveau de décision des chefs de composantes et compte tenu de la nature
    politique et stratégique de ces décisions, elles devaient relever d'un niveau plus
    élevé ;
v. Concernant la Grande irrigation à l'Office du Niger: Le nouveau mécanisme de
    financement de l'irrigation en cours d'installation dans le cadre du projet et qui est
     basé sur le partenariat public-privé, constitue une solution d'avenir en termes
     d'accroissement des superficies aménagées. Ce modèle devrait être généralisé au
     niveau des différents partenaires du développement de l'agriculture irriguée ;
vi. Concernant la dimension genre, les résultats du projet ont démontré que sa prise en
     charge n'est efficace que lorsqu'elle tient compte de l'ensemble des activités menées
     par les femmes. A cet égard les actions en faveur des femmes dans le cadre de la
     composante Petite irrigation ont rendu visible la contribution de celles-ci dans la
     diversification et la valorisation de la production au niveau des PPIV ;
vii. La création de l'AGETIER a joué un rôle important dans l'amélioration du rythme
     d'aménagement des infrastructures et du taux de décaissement des différents projets
     et programmes.

VII- CONCLUSIONS & RECOMMANDATIONS

         Le PNIR1 a pleinement atteint ses objectifs d'investissements et partiellement
ceux du cadre institutionnel, en dépit des tares inhérentes à son caractère multisectoriel et
à son approche d'intervention basée sur la demande et la participation des bénéficiaires.
Les retards dans l'adoption des nouvelles politiques sectorielles relèvent en partie des
hiérarchies supérieures des différentes administrations concernées et dépassent le niveau
des agences d'exécution du projet.
         Le PNIR 1 a le mérite d'une part d'avoir mis en place un esprit de concertation
entre les directions sectorielles relevant de différents ministères concernant la
planification et le développement des infrastructures rurales et d'autre part de rendre
effective la considération environnementale et le genre au niveau de tous les acteurs des
infrastructures.
         S'agissant de l'Irrigation, les opérations pilotes en cours dans le cadre du nouveau
mécanisme méritent d'être conduites à leur fin avec précaution afin d'en tirer des
enseignements utiles pour d'une part mieux définir le cadre réglementaire et
institutionnel du mécanisme et d'autre part adapter le statut de l'Office du Niger en
conséquence. Le projet a contribué à l'accroissement des superficies aménagées avec une
amélioration sensible du taux annuel d'aménagement rendu possible avec l'intervention
de l'AGETIER au niveau de la petite irrigation. Il a doté l'Office du Niger
d'infrastructures structurantes d'irrigation pour soutenir les extensions de superficies et a
permis d'améliorer la connaissance des problématiques concernant son développement
futur.

                                                                                            60

        Le PNIR a fait la promotion du partenariat privé-producteurs pour soutenir le
développement de l'irrigation mais ce partenariat a besoin d'être renforcé par des actions
spécifiques en faveur des acteurs privés.
        En matière d'infrastructures de transport, l'appui du projet a permis à l'Autorité
routière d'être pleinement opérationnelle avec un fonds d'entretien routier régulièrement
pourvu, des ressources diversifiées et un taux d'entretien satisfaisant (70% des besoins).
Le projet a également contribué à l'élaboration d'une Stratégie nationale spécifique au
transport en milieu rural, qui malheureusement n'a pas été adoptée avant la clôture du
projet. L'adoption de cette stratégie est vivement souhaitée pour le développement des
infrastructures de transport rural. Le projet a amélioré considérablement la desserte des
bassins de production de riz avec la réalisation de pistes principales reliant d'une part la
zone de l'Office du Niger à des zones déficitaires (Banamba, Nara) et d'autre part la
zone de l'inter-fleuves (Djenné-Mougna-Say) aux routes principales.
        Dans le domaine de l'alimentation en eau potable, le projet a permis de mettre à la
disposition des acteurs du sous-secteur une Stratégie nationale d'AEPA actualisée sur la
base des expériences enrichissantes de la composante et qui a été adoptée par le
Gouvernement. Il a aussi renforcé le suivi des investissements dans le secteur de l'eau à
travers l'actualisation de la base de données SIGMA2 et l'amélioration des capacités des
services de la DNH. Le PNIR a également contribué à renforcer l'accès à l'eau potable
dans les zones couvertes.
        Sur le plan de la décentralisation, le PNIR a renforcé la capacité des collectivités
décentralisées    en les transférant la maîtrise d'ouvrage des infrastructures rurales
notamment d'AEPA et la planification des infrastructures de petite irrigation.
En ce concerne la Composante mesures de protection environnementale et sociale, elle a
permis de renforcer considérablement la DNACPN et les autres agences d'exécution du
projet en matière environnementale. Elle a fait prendre conscience à beaucoup d'acteurs
l'importance de connaître et de respecter les réglementations concernant la protection de
l'environnement lors de la construction des infrastructures.
        L'appui du projet à l'installation de l'AGETIER a permis de disposer aujourd'hui
d'une structure efficace de passation de marchés, qui est devenu un instrument
incontournable pour le développement des infrastructures rurales au Mali.
        Enfin avec la mise en place du Programme sectoriel de l'eau potable et de
l'assainissement (PROSEPA) et du Programme sectoriel des transports phase 2 (PST2),
il est évident que le PNIR ne pourra pas continuer sous sa forme initiale. Par conséquent
sa suite serait d'envisager le développement de l'irrigation dans un programme agricole
plus élargi, capitalisant les expériences des premières phases du PNIR et du PASAOP et
s'inscrivant dans la Loi d'Orientation Agricole.




                                                                                         61

                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33443

                                                                                       MALI

                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                            MAIN ROADS

                                                 PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                    RAILROADS

                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                 RIVERS                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                   5°W                                           0°

                                                                                                                                   0                  100         200        300 Kilometers


                                                                                    TTo
                                                                                     o
                                                                                Chenachane                                         0                50        100    150        300 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                         25°N

                          MALI
                                                            To
                                                            To
                                                        El Mreîti
                                                            Mreîti

                                                                  S a h         a r a              D e s e r t                                    A L G E R I A

                                                                 To
                                                                 To
                                                              El Mreîti
                                                                 Mreîti
                                                                                      Taoudenni
                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                     Poste Maurice
                                                                                                                                                 Cortier




                                                                                 T O M B O U C T O U                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                               Abalessa
20°N                                                                                                                               Tessalit                                                              20°N


             M A U R I T A N I A                                                                                                                     K I D A L

                                                                                           Araouane                                ValéeduTilemsi             Kidal




                                                                                             Tombouctou       Gourma
                                                                                                               Rharous
                                                                                               (Timbuktu)                       Bourem                G A O
                                       To
                                       To                                                                   Niger
             To
             To                      Ayun                                                                                          Gao
             Kifa                 el ''Atrous
                                     Atrous                                           Niafounke            Lac Niangay                                                             Vallée de L'Azaouak
                                                                   To Néma
                                                                      Néma                                                                                    Menaka
                                                                                                               Hombori
                                                                                         Lac                     Tondo
                                                                                                               (1,155 m)        Ansongo
                            Nioro                    Nara              Nampala          Débo
                                                                                        Débo
                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                           To
15°N                      du Sahel                              R O                                                                                                                                      15°N
                                                                                         M O P T I       Douentza                                                        Abala
                                                                                                                                                            To Niamey

                 Kayes
    To
    To                                                                                                                                                               N I G E R
  Goudiry        BafingK AY E S
                                 Baoulé    Kolokani   U L I K O                        Mopti         Bandiagara
                                                                    Niono

                                                                      S É G O U                                 To
                                                                                                                To
                                                                         Ségou
                                                                         Ségou    Ba ni                     Ouahigouya

         To
         To                                        K O     Niger                       San
      Kédougou
      Kédougou                Kita                                                                To
                                                                                                  To
                 Kenieba
                                     BAMAKO            Koulikoro                                Nouna       B U R K I N A
                                                                        Koutiala                                 F A S O
                                   To
                                   To
                                  Siguiri                 Bougouni
                                                                                Sikasso   To
                                                                                          To
                                                                                         Bobo
          G U I N E A                                S I K A S S O                     Dioulasso

                                           To
                                           To                                                                                                                 B E N I N
                                         Kankan

10°N                                                                            To
                                                                                To
                                                                             Korhogo                                                                                                                     10°N
                                                                                                                   G H A N A                                           This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                       the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                       World Bank. The boundaries,
  S I E R R A                                                                                                                                                          colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                       any other information shown
   L E O N E                                                     C Ô T E D ' I V O I R E                                                                               on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                       the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                       Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                        TOGO           legal status         of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                       or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                       a c c e p t a n c e        o f s u c h
                           10°W                                                    5°W                                           0°                                    boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                                                            NOVEMBER 2004

