DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BA  FOR RECONSTRUCTION   D DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL ]AION
Not For Public Use
Report No.  PA-1 36a
APPRAISAL OF
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ETHIOPIA
December 4, 1972
Agriculture Division,
Projects Department,
Eastern Africa
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsbility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00              -  2.30 Ethiopian Dollars (Eth.$)
Eth.$ 1.00           -  US$0.43
Eth.$ 1 million      -  US$434,285
WEIGRTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
2
1 hectare (ha)            .  10,000 m   , 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2  -  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km ) -  0.39 sq. miles - 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)           -  2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)               -  0.26 gallons
1,000 kg - 1 metric ton  -  0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDB      -  Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
ALMO      -  Assistant Livestock Marketing Officer
CBE       -  Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
DBE       -  Development Bank of Ethiopia
EIC       -  Ethiopian Investment Corporation
LMB       -  Livestock and Meat Board
LMO       -  Livestock Marketing Officer
LMB Fiscal Year
July 8 - July 7



ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..................................... i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................  1
II.  BACKGROUND ......1....................................... 
A.  General . ..........................................  1
Climate                 ..   2
Population and Gross Domestic Product ........   2
Exports and Imports           . .    2
B. The Agricultural Sector              .       .        2
Contribution of Agriculture to the Economy ...  2
Land Use                 ..   2
Land Tenure ..................................  3
Livestock ....................................  3
Uides and Skins ..............................  4
Animal Health ................................  4
C.  Marketing .........................................  5
D.  Government Services ...............................  5
E.  Goverment Policy .................................  6
F. Livestock and Meat Board             .       .        6
G.  Agricultural Credit ...............................  7
III.  THE PROJECT ............................................  8
A. General Description                .        .         8
B.  Detailed Features ........                           9
Markets and Stockroutes          .     .       9
Cattle Trucks .............. .................  10
Slaughter Facilities and Hide Sheds    ..   11
Fattening Ranches     .................  11
Project Preparation           .       .    12
LMB Headquarters Technical and Administrative
Assistance ........... .......   ........... 12
C.  Cost Estimates         .................... 12
D.  Financing          ....................... 14
E.  Procurement ...............................          15
F.  Disbursements .. . ............................ 15
G.  Organization and Management .     ...................... 15
All mission members, Messrs. M. J. McGarry, and F. M. Crowe (IDA), T. L.
Martin (ADS), and E. W. Root (Consultant), contributed to this report.



-2-
Page No.
H.   Lending Operations ................................   19
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank    19
I. Accounts and Audit .20
IV. PROJECT FINANCIAL RESULTS            ...21
Government Cash Flow From Project .21
Financial Rates of Return ....................   21
Project Impact .21
V.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIF .ICATION   21
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECO1MENDATION     D.      .           23
ANNEXES
1.   Livestock Production and Marketing
2.   Slaughter Facilities, Hides and Skins Preparation and Marketing
3.   Livestock and Meat Board
Appendix 3-1.  Livestock and Meat Board Order, 1964
Appendix 3-2.  Livestock and Meat Board Proclamation, 1964
Appendix 3-3.  Actual and Projected Balance Sheets as of
July 7, 1971-1983
Appendix 3-4.  Projected Profit and Loss Accounts 1974-1983
Appendix 3-5.  Sources and Applications of Funds 1972-1983
Appendix 3-6.  Organization Chart
4.   LMB Market and Stockroute Department - Investments, Revenues and
Operating Costs
Table 1 - Model 1 - Primary Market - Investment Costs
Table 2 - Model 1 - Primary Market - Revenue and Operating Costs
Table 3 - Model II - Terminal Market - Investment Costs
Table 4 - Model II - Terminal Market - Revenue and Operating Costs
Table 5 - Stockroutes and Marshalling Yards - Investment Costs
Table 6 - Stockroutes and Marshalling Yards - Revenue
Table 7 - Stockroutes and Marshalling Yards - Operating Costs
Table 8 - Technical and Administrative Services - Investment Costs
Table 9 - Technical and Administrative Services - Operating Costs
5.   Cattle Trucks - Investment, Revenue and Operating Costs
Table 1 - Model - LMB Operated Cattle Truck - Investment,
Revenue and Operating Costs
Table 2 - Model - Privately Owned Cattle Truck - Financial
Projection



- 3 -
6.   LMB Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Department - Investments,
Revenues and Operating Costs
Table 1 - Model 1 - Slaughterslab Weekly Throughput About 16 Head
of Cattle - Investment Costs
Table 2 - Model 1 - Slaughterslab Weekly Throughput About 16
Head of Cattle - Revenue and Operating Costs
Table 3 - Model II - Slaughterslab Weekly Throughput About 80 Head
of Cattle - Investment Costs
Table 4 - Model II - Slaughterslab Weekly Throughput About 80
Head of Cattle - Revenue and Operating Costs
Table 5 - Model III - Slaughterhouse Weekly Throughput About 170
Head of Cattle - Investment Costs
Table 6 - Model III - Slaughterhouse Weekly Throughput About 170
Head of Cattle - Revenue and Operating Costs
Table 7 - Technical and Administrative Services - Investment Costs
Table 8 - Technical and Administrative Services - Operating Costs
7.   Model - Fattening Ranch 3,500 ha
Table 1 - Herd Projection
Table 2 - Investment Costs
Table 3 - Revenue and Operating Costs
Table 4 - Financial Projection
8.   Proposed Terms of Reference for Preparation of the Fourth Livestock
Development Project
9.   LMB Headquarters Technical and Administrative Services - Investment
and Operating Costs
10. Phasing of Project Investments
11. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit
12. Government Cash Flow From Project
13. Financial Rates of Return
14. Economic Rate of Return
Appendix 14-1. Summary Economic Rate of Return Calculations.
Maps 1. Location of Project Markets, Stockroutes and Trucking Routes
2. Location of Project Slaughter Facilities and Hide Sheds






ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMIARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project to improve livestock movement,
marketing, and slaughter facilities in Ethiopia and to increase the quantities
and value of hides for export and local processing. Besides, provisions are
made for the preparation of future livestock projects. Ethiopia's livestock
population, possibly the largest of any country in Africa, makes a dis-
proportionately small contribution to an economy with very low per capita
income and whose exports urgently need to be diversified and expanded.
ii.       This would be the sixth IDA Credit for agricultural development in
Ethiopia.  The Wolamo Agricultural Development Project (169-ET) was signed
in November 1969; the Humera Agricultural Development Project (188-ET) in
May 1970; the Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project (269-ET) in August 1971;
the Coffee Processing Project (290-ET) in 1arch 1972; and the Agricultural
and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) Project (304-ET) in May 1972.
Performance to-date under these projects has been reasonably satisfactory.
iii.      The country lacks an organized stockroute and marketing system.
As a result there are serious weight losses when cattle are moved; disease
control is handicapped; and incentives to producers are inadequate. Ethiopian
hides have a poor reputation on the world market and only half the potential
supply reaches the market. Simple improvements in the techniques of prep-
aration could double the value of individual hides and, moreover, provide an
incentive to bring many more hides into the trade stream. Since there is
virtually no commercial ranching in Ethiopia, practical experience of its
feasibility, on a small scale, is needed to show the potential and the direc-
tion for further development.
iv.       The proposed Project would provide:  (a) 2,500 km of stockroutes,
48 primary and 6 terminal markets, with limited trucking services connecting
the three main cattle producing areas of the country with the principal
centers of consumption; (b) 159 slaughter facilities (mostly simple concrete
slabs) with associated hide sheds situated throughout the country; (c) funds
for the preparation of future livestock projects; and (d) cost of ranching
specialist and technical assistance. Parallel to the project, it is expected
that financing for about 5 fattening ranches and purchases of 5 cattle trucks
by private parties would become available through AIDB, either from its own
funds or from the proceeds of the IDA Credit extended to AIDB in 1972.
v.        Total project cost would be of the order of US$6.4 million
equivalent excluding private ranching and trucking, while the foreign
exchange component would be about 35%. The IDA Credit of US$4.5 million
would finance foreign exchange costs of US$2.2 million, and US$2.3 million
equivalent of local costs. The Livestock and Meat Board (LMB) would be the
executing agency for all aspects of the Project except future project prepara-
tion, which would be the responsibility of the Government. The latter may,
however, designate LMB as the agency responsible for project preparation.



- ii -
On-lending to LMB would be at 3/4 of 1% for the first 5 years and 8% thereafter
for a term of 20 years, with Government contribution to an amount of about
US$1.4 million on terms not less favorable than the above. Credit for the
fattening ranches and privately operated cattle trucks may become available
through the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB). Since AIDB
would be able to finance such development under the IDA assisted Agricultural
and Industrial Development Bank Project, no funds are provided here for such
purposes.
vi.       The Project is not expected to give rise to undue technical diffi-
culties as, for the most part, only simple structures and facilities are
involved. The geographical spread and number of locations and the need to
collect fees would, however, call for sound organization and administration.
vii.      The LNB is a relatively small organization, employing about 100
and having total assets of about US$1 million. The Project would increase
staffing to over 1,200 and net assets to about US$5 million. Building up
LMB's management capability would probably be the most difficult part of
the Project and would require international recruitment. Outside profes-
sional assistance in establishing a sound accounting system - presently
one of the weakest areas of LMB - would be essential.
viii.     LMB 's revenues come from levies on exports of livestock products
and have been quite stable in recent years. Its present financial position
is sound, with ample liquidity for immediate needs. As its activities
have increased, however, its annual expenses have risen almost to the level
of its revenues. The Project would greatly increase LMB's assets, revenues
and expenditures and would call for careful financial management.
ix.       Since LMB would execute the main components of the_Project, bulking
of some items would be feasible. Purchase of LMB vehicles and equipment under
the Project would be subject to international competitive bidding. The con-
struction of markets, stockroutes, and slaughter facilities would also be
subject to international competitive bidding, but advertising would be limited
to local papers as well as those in neighboring countries. Borehole drilling,
test pumping, and equipping would be carried out by the Ministry of Mines or
the National Water Resources Commission.
x.        The Project would greatly increase the value of hide production
for export and local consumption, as well as increase the production of beef
and improve the efficiency of the marketing system. Since nearly all rural
families own cattle, the Project benefits would be widely dispersed. The
rate of return to the Ethiopian economy is estimated at about 22%, while
financial rates of return to LMB, private truckers, and private ranchers are
estimated at 9%, 43%, and 13%, respectively.
xi.       The Project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$4.5 million.



ETlIIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Imperial Ethiopian Government has requested an IDA Credit to
assist the financing of a livestock development program whose main emphasis
would be on improving conditions for livestock movement, marketing, and
slaughtering, and on improving the preparation facilities for hides and skins.
The proposed Second Livestock Development Project would provide simple
slaughter facilities, with associated hide and skin sheds; a field service
to improve hide and skin preparation; stockroutes; markets; trucking facili-
ties; and financing for a ranching specialist and some technical assistance.
It would also provide funds for further livestock project preparation. An
independent body, the Livestock and Meat Board (L1B), would be the main
executing agency.
1.02      This would be the sixth IDA Credit for agricultural development
in Ethiopia. Previous Credits were: the Wolamo Agricultural Development
Project (169-ET), November 1969; the Humera Agricultural Development Project
(188-ET), May 1970; the Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project (269-ET),
August 1971; the Coffee Processing Project (290-ET), March 1972; and the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project (304-ET), May 1972.
1.03      The Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project, appraised in April/Mlay
1970, was the first livestock project in Ethiopia. Negotiations, however,
were not completed until May 1971 principally because of the inherent
problems in establishing a new autonomous Government-owned agency, the Dairy
Development Agency (DDA), to execute the Project. Thereafter, signing was
delayed until August 30, 1971 because of a shortage of IDA funds. Effective-
ness was delayed from December 15, 1971 to May 1, 1972 because of problems in
recruiting personnel to key posts, the filling of which was a condition of
effectiveness.
1.04      The Project was prepared by the LMB with assistance from the
staff of the Permanent Mission for Eastern Africa. This report was based
on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed of Messrs. M. J. McGarry
and F. M. Crowe (IDA), T. L. Martin (ADS), and E. W. Root (Consultant),
that visited Ethiopia in November/December 1971.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Ethiopia, with an area of about 1.2 million km2, lies between
latitude 30 and 18° north in East Africa on an elevated plateau broken by
the Rift Valley and extends from the Red Sea southwest to Lake Rudolph.



-2-
Climate
2.02      Ethiopia has a wide range of ecological and climatic conditions
because of the different altitudes involved. Generally, rainfall increases
from north to south, from a minimum of 250 mm in the northeast region near
the Red Sea to over 1,000 mm in the mountainous plateau region of the
southwest.
Population and Grcss Domestic Product
2.03      The population is about 25 million and increasing at about 2.5%
per year. Over 90% of the people live in rural areas but urban population
is climbing rapidly - about 7% a year. Some 85% of the population live in
the highlands, which include Addis Ababa (population 850,000) and Asmara
(230,000). In recent years, Gross Domestic Product (GDP) has been growing
at about 4.5% a year and, in 1969, totaled US$1.5 billion. Per capita
income in 1970 was about US$73, one of the lowest in the world.
Exports and Imports
2.04      In 1970, total exports were valued at about US$118 million.  Of
this, agriculture accounted for about 97%, including coffee, about 60%;
oilseeds, about 9%; and hides and skins, about 8%. Ethiopia was, until
the late 1950's, self-sufficient in staple foods but it now imports wheat.
Although the trade deficit has averaged about US$45 million in recent years,
capital inflows have, in most years, enabled the country to avoid serious
balance of payments difficulties. However, prospects for export growth of
Ethiopia's main export commodity, coffee, are limited due to slow growth in
world demand. Ethiopia must, therefore, place high priority on diversification
of exports in order to avoid potentially severe long-term balance of payments
problems.
B. The Agricultural Sector
Contribution of Agriculture to the Economy
2.05      The economy of Ethiopia is based largely on subsistence agriculture.
Agriculture provides 90% of employment but only about 55% of GDP and agricul-
tural production has increased over the past decade at a rate barely sufficient
to keep pace with population growth.
Land Use
2.06      Only 10% of the total land area of Ethiopia is under crop
cultivation, while the remainder is taken up by grazing grounds (28%), open



-3-
brush and scrub (25%), open woodland (3%), and area not suitable for plant
or livestock production (34%). The average farm size is small, estimated at
about three ha.
Land Tenure
2.07      Historic factors have led to an exceptionally wide variety of land
tenure systems in Ethiopia, which for simplicity, however, may be grouped
into four main classes:
(a) Communal, mainly practiced in the north where families and
other groups own and farm the land. Periodic redistributions
of the lands have led to fragmented holdings;
(b) Leasehold, from individuals, the Government and the Church.
In many cases, this system is complicated by sub-leases and
grazing agreements which exploit the ultimate user, and is
typified by a reluctance of landlords to develop their
properties;
(c) Individual owner occupancy over a relatively small part of
the total area; and
(d) Traditional rights over Government land.
2.08      It has been estimated that more than half of the cultivated area
is farmed by tenants. Nearly all landlord-tenant agreements are oral,
security is inadequate, and generally no compensation is paid for improve-
ments made by the tenant. In addition, with increasing population pressure,
landlords are able to extract a level of rent from tenants which reduces
them to bare subsistence as they compete with each other for scarce land.
2.09      Government land  is estimated to cover over 40% of Ethiopia.  Over
three-quarters of this area is rangeland occupied by pastoralists with their
herds and flocks. On this land where about 40% of Ethiopia's cattle are
found, pasture management is generally poor and overstocking is common. Since
enclosure is virtually impossible, an individual has little incentive to
invest in improvements. Furthermore, without effective control over prescribed
areas - either by group leaders, tribal chiefs or village heads -- overgrazing
is an inevitable result. The land tenure system is, by far, the greatest
disincentive to improving livestock production in Ethiopia.
Livestock
2.10      With about 26 million cattle and 24 to 27 million sheep and goats
and about 56% of the total land surface suitable for grazing, livestock
represents a major national resource to Ethiopia (Annex 1). However, the
population, the largest of any African country, makes a disproportionately
small contribution to the national economy and export earnings. Apart from
the land tenure system, the greatest obstacles to increased production and
productivity are:
(a) livestock diseases;
(b)  lack of an organized-stockroute and marketing system; and



-4-
(c) inadequate facilities for slaughter and hide and skin
preparation.
2.11      The indigenous cattle belong to the Zebu type.  Out of the 26
million total, it is estimated that about six million are work oxen.
Sample surveys conducted by the LMB indicate that, with variations between
regions, 27% to 35% of the cattle are breeding cows. A survey in Southern
Ethiopia shows that about 67% of the calves born survived one year and that
about 60% survived two years. Thus, with a calving interval of approximately
18 months, the number of offspring that lived to an age of two years was
about 40 per 100 cows, which is low by African standards. Information
gathered by the survey is generally true of the whole country.
2.12      Grazing in the pastoral areas of the lowlands is mostly communal.
In agricultural regions, it is largely on an individual basis, with a
typical herd having from five to 10 animals. Some farmers have no cattle
at all, and up to 80% have only enough to provide draught power and milk
for home consumption. Herds are larger in the pastoral southern provinces
but, even there, the majority contain less than 20 animals. There are no
private commercially operated ranches in Ethiopia.
2.13      The fodder resources are natural grassland, supplemented by crop
residue and stubbles in the cultivated regions. Because most of the rainfall
occurs over a relatively short period, there are long periods of malnutrition
since fodder preservation for beef cattle is unknown.
Hides and Skins
2.14      Hide production for 1970 has been estimated at 2.7 million, of
which 1.2 million are exported, 0.2 million are used by domestic commercial
tanneries, and 1.3 million are not accounted for. More than 75% of the hides
exported come from rural areas. The cattle are slaughtered under primitive
conditions, usually in an open field, and are flayed without skill or
suitable tools. The hides are sun-dried and, individually, have a low
value in the export market. The LMB has demonstrated that, with correct
methods of flaying and improved drying techniques, the value of the hides
can be more than doubled (Annex 2).
Animal Health
2.15      The major epidemic diseases of cattle -- rinderpest, foot-and-mouth
disease (types A, 0 and C), and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP) --
occur in Ethiopia but effective vaccinations are available to control them
as well as blackleg, and haemorrhagic septicaemia which make sporadic appear-
ances. The tick-borne diseases -- heartwater, anaplasmosis, piroplasmosis,
and babesiosis -- also occur and, while East Coast Fever has not been identified
in Ethiopia, the vector responsible for transmitting the disease is present.
Internal parasites, particularly liver fluke, are a serious problem in cattle,
especially in the highland areas. Diseases, combined with uneven and sometimes
low levels of nutrition, lead to extremely heavy mortalities and slow growth
rates, and exclude unprocessed meat products from many export markets,
particularly in Europe.



C. Marketing
2.16      The marketing system for live cattle and sheep is poorly developed.
Existing primary markets have virtually no facilities or organization. They
are small, have almost daily sales, and fail in their basic function of
supplying competition in the sale of cattle since they are frequented by
only a small number of buyers who can easily control prices.
2.17      The absence of any improved stockroutes with disease control or
grazing/resting areas suitably spaced, results in tremendous losses in
cattle as they move the long distances from production areas to main con-
sumer centers at Addis Ababa and Asmara. Such losses are estimated at up
to 20Z of initial body liveweight on a 20-day trek. To date, virtually no
cattle are transported by truck although a small quantity are carried
on the Addis Ababa-Dire Dawa-Djibouti Railroad, especially en route to
export markets in the Gulf states.
2.18      In marketing hides and skins, there is adequate competition
between local tanners and exporting firms, particularly for improved hides.
However, due to the low quality of most of the hides (para 2.14), buyers
and sellers have little incentive to trade. This is amply evidenced by
the fact that almost half of the potential supply of hides is never marketed.
The adoption of improved techniques of hide preparation should, therefore,
have a dramatic effect on hide production: not only would the value of
individual hides increase, but the increased value would bring many hides
presently produced but not traded into the trade stream.
D. Government Services
2.19      The livestock sub-sector, indeed the whole agricultural sector, is
characterized by a dearth of Government services. The Veterinary Department
of the Ministry of Agriculture has five divisions comprising field services,
laboratories, disease diagnosis and survey, meat inspection and quarantine,
and animal health education, but staff currently comprises only 58 qualified
veterinarians, 36 of whom are foreign; 200 animal health assistants with
two-year diploma qualifications; and some 450 vaccinators. The veterinary
service in the field is seriously understaffed, and its effectiveness is
reduced by budgetary limitations affecting transportation, allowances, and
materials. There are no private veterinary practitioners in the country.
During negotiations, the adequacy and effectiveness of the existing services
were discussed. The Ethiopian Delegation pointed out that priority was being
given by the Government to veterinary services. It was agreed that this
would remain the case in the future and that, within the Government's budget-
ary constraints, the necessary funds would be allocated to enable the Depart-
ment of Veterinary Services to effectively carry out its duties and respon-
sibilities. The Animal Production Department, also within the Ministry of
Agriculture, has little impact on stock owners due to lack of funds, trained
personnel, and leadership. There is no livestock extension service in Ethiopia.



-6-
E. Government Policy
2.20      The predominant goal of the Third Five-Year Plan (1968-1973) is
to increase the total volume of the nation's output of goods and services by
about one-third, and of the planned increase in production of US$520 million,
agriculture is expected to account for US$142 million (27%). Emphasis
has been placed on increased exports of livestock and livestock products.
The plan recognizes the need for a carefully conceived and realistic
livestock development policy including improvements in the marketing and
processing of livestock and livestock products.
2.21      Though the potential to expand livestock production is great,
the obstacles are many and progress is likely to be slow. Lack of trained
personnel and a chronic and severe shortage of funds are the main obstacles
to the developmenit of a planning capability. But even assuming that suitable
production oriented projects were prepared the problems of implementation are
also likely to be serious. Credit institutions in Ethiopia have little, if
any, experience of lending for ranch development. Furthermore, even the
technical coefficients of ranching are not known with any certainty, let
alone the solutions to the land tenure (paras 2.07 - 2.09) and sociological
problems.
F. Livestock and Meat Board
2.22      The Livestock and Meat Board (LMB) is an independent public body,
created in 1964 to handle matters relating to livestock, poultry, meat, eggs,
and by-products, including hides and skins (Annex 3). Its objectives and
purposes are to:
(a) encourage production and marketing;
(b) collect and disseminate information and stimulate
research relating to production, processing and marketing;
(c) promote the establishment and supervision of improved
stockroutes, watering points, and marketing facilities;
(d) assist the veterinary services of the Government; and
(e) promote sales by advertising at home and abroad and by
participating in international trade fairs.
To accomplish these purposes, LMB has been given broad controlling and
regulatory powers, including, inter alia, the power to:
(a) construct, own, lease, and operate farms, warehouses,
markets, market processes, compounds, and stock ponds;



-7-
(b) demarcate and establish livestock routes and watering
points and reserved grazing areas;
(c) draw up and establish reliable weighing procedures and
specifications and enforce the same;
(d) fix, impose, and collect fees on all livestock, meat,
poultry, eggs, and by-products processed in, or exported
from, Ethiopia; and
(e) fix, impose, and collect fees on all livestock and poultry,
using facilities provided by the Board.
LMB's Board of Directors is under the Chairmanship of the Minister of
Agriculture or his duly authorized representative. Its members comprise
representatives of various Ministries designated by them and representatives
of traders, producers, and processors designated by the Minister of Agricul-
ture.
2.23      LMB employs a staff of about 100, working under a General Manager
appointed by the Board of Directors. It has the following main departments:
Production and Processing; Marketing, Planning, Research and Information;
Projects Office; and Administrative Services. Its activities have, hitherto,
covered regulatory functions, including the inspection of hygiene standards
at export processing plants and the issue of export permits; operations such
as the implementation of a successful hides and skins improvement program;
studies and surveys dealing with all aspects of livestock production, proces-
sing, and marketing; and preparation of projects.
G. Agricultural Credit
2.24      Non-institutional lenders charging high interest rates at present
constitute the main source of agricultural credit in Ethiopia. Prior to
1971, a major obstacle to expansion of institutional credit was the absence
of a suitable, efficient organization to handle such credits. In an effort
to improve the situation, the Government merged the former Development Bank
of Ethiopia (DBE) and the Ethiopia Investment Corporation (EIC) into one
new credit institution, the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
(AIDB). Government or its nominees are AIDB's sole shareholders.
2.25      AIDB has adopted a fairly conservative approach to the financing
of projects in an effort to avoid the errors of its predecessors. Its
management is determined to run the bank in a businesslike manner and,
given its performance to date and continued Government support, the future
looks promising. However, like other banking institutions in Ethiopia it has
little or no experience in financing ranch development.
2.26      The IDA recently signed the Credit Agreements for the Agricultural
and Industrial Development Bank Project. 1/ The Project is part of Ethiopia's
program for encouraging the development of industrial and agricultural
1/   The Appraisal Report (PA-123a) of the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank Project treats AIDB in detail.



production by providing financing for industrial and agricultural investment
projects and includes an agricultural credit program to help finance AIDB's
medium-and long-term commitments over a period of approximately one and
one-half years for investment projects for commercial farming, cooperatives
and agri-business undertakings such as tea production and processing, banana
cultivation and packing, dairy farming and milk processing, and alfalfa
production.
2.27      The only other bank that deals with agriculture on a substantial
scale is the state-owned Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE), but it deals
almost exclusively in short-term credit and mainly to large scale farmers.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The main objective of the Project is the provision of an integrated
market and stockroute system and a complementary LMB operated cattle trucking
service in three important cattle and/or sheep producing areas, and slaughter
facilities in 159 towns and villages throughout Ethiopia. Transportation of
cattle by privately owned trucks, and private ranching, although not financed
through the proceeds of the credit, would be pioneered by the Project. Funds
for project preparation would also be included.
3.02      The proposed Project would provide:
(a)  48 primary and six terminal markets;
(b)  about 2,500 km of stockroutes;
(c)  five cattle trucks, operated by LMB, to move
cattle from the end of the stockroutes to consumer
centers;
(d)  159 slaughter facilities with associated hide sheds;
(e)  technical assistance, including the cost of a ranching
specialist; and
(f)  funds for the preparation of future livestock
projects.
Parallel to the project, it is proposed that development of five fattening
ranches and purchase of five cattle trucks, all by private individuals, would
be financed by AIDB either from its own funds or by using funds from the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project (para 2.26).
3.03      The stockroutes, with associated primary markets, would be
developed in the southern provinces of Arussi, Bale, and Sidamo, to facilitate
sales activities and the moving of cattle from producing areas to the main
consumer centers, where terminal markets would be constructed as required.
Similar developments would be undertaken in the Jijiga area, mainly to
expedite the export of sheep and goats to Somalia and the movement of cattle



- 9 -
to Dire Dawa, a key cattle marketing town in eastern Ethiopia. A single
stockroute, with associated markets, would be developed in the north for
livestock moving from the Danakil plains toward the consumer center at Asmara
and the meat plants at Kembolcha and Mekele. Trucking services would
generally be developed to move cattle on the last stages of their journey
to consumer centers, especially where intensive cropping and traffic make
movement on foot undesirable (Map No. IBRD 3865). Slaughtering facilities
with associated hide and skin sheds would be distributed throughout the
country in selected towns and villages (Map No. IBRD 3866). The fattening
ranches would be situated in areas where interested private ranchers, with
suitable pasture land and good access to a supply of feeder steers and
consumer markets, could be found.
3.04      LMB would execute all aspects of the Project except project
preparation, which would be the direct responsibility of Government.
Loans made for fattening ranches and cattle trucks to private individuals
would be the responsibility of AIDB.
B. Detailed Features
Markets and Stockroutes
3.05      Markets.  In 1971, an FAO expert, under UNDP technical assistance,
carried out a fairly detailed analysis of the Ethiopian market and stockroute
system. This greatly assisted Project preparation and appraisal. The Project
would develop market places (suited in size and facilities to the livestock
throughput) in which properly organized auction sales would be conducted at re-
gular intervals by trained marketing teams, under the direction of trained live-
stock marketing officers (LMO). A veterinary inspection service would also be
provided. The development program would be phased over four years and, in total,
48 primary markets and six terminal markets would be constructed. The main criterior
that would be used in selecting market sites would be that each proposed market
would have to form a part of the integrated market and stockroute system under
construction by the Project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the LMB would obtain the approval of the IDA before building a Project market
in a place substantially different in location than those indicated on Map No.
IBRD 3865.
3.06      Basic inputs for primary markets would be yards, pens, simple live-
stock handling facilities, a sale ring, office building, fodder store, water-
ing facilities, livestock weighing scales, and handling equipment. Basic
inputs for the bigger terminal markets in consumer centers would also include
perimeter fencing and electric lighting connections (Annex 4, Tables 1 and 3).
3,07      The Project would establish about 16 marketing teams (para 3.34).
The veterinary staff of the market teams would enisure, by inspection, that
no clinically diseased animals were offered for sale, and would also
provide a veterinary extension service in Project markets, including the
sale of veterinary requisites.
3.08      Basic inputs for the marketing teams would be vehicles, tents,
office equipment, radio telephones, diagnostic and other veterinary equip-
ment, portable spraying equipment, and, for the Jijiga area, an office
and staff housing (Annex 4, Table 8).



- 10 -
3.09      Stockroutes.  The Project would develop fenced and watered resting
points at intervals of about 25 km along well-defined traditional routes.
The majority would enclose adequate grazing for the livestock passing through,
but those in areas of dense cultivation, where the traders would have to
provide feed, would be smaller. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the LMB would obtain the approval of the IDA before developing a Project
stockroute over any route substantially different from those indicated on
Map No. IBRD 3865.
3.10      Basic inputs for the stockroutes at grazing/resting areas would
be bush clearing, fencing, staff housing, shelters and fodder stores, spray
races, boreholes, wells, stock ponds, water pumping and supply equipment,
mobile spraying equipment, and start-up stocks of spraying fluid (Annex 4,
Table 5).
3.11      The Project would establish a set of marshalling yards on the
railway at Dire Dawa to be used to hold livestock for export by sea from
Djibouti. The yards, which would have a maximum capacity of 4,000 sheep
and 600 head of cattle, would provide holding pens, shade, water, fodder
storage, and veterinary facilities and would be administered by a qualified
IMO. The yards would be available to traders on a fee paying basis and
would provide the necessary opportunity for inoculations and inspections
before export by the Department of Veterinary Services of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
3.12      Basic inputs in the marshalling yards would be a stone perimeter
wall, gates, offices, veterinary and laboratory equipment, stores, spraying
and dipping facilities, an equipped borehole and water distribution system,
electric security lighting, radio telephone, weighing scales, office furniture,
and equipment.
3.13      To ensure that the widespread assets in the markets, stockroutes
and marshalling yards would be properly maintained, the Project would set
up five mobile maintenance units (para 3.36) to operate in specific areas
under the direction of the appropriate field LMO. The main inputs would be
diesel engines and pumps, small tools and equipment (Annex 4, Table 8).
Cattle Trucks
3.14      Under the Project, LMB would purchase, over three years, five
cattle trucks, each consisting of a lorry and trailer, capable of carrying
some 55 animals weighing about 250 kg each (Annex 5, Table 1). LMB would
operate them initially on the roads leading to Addis Ababa from the ends of
the Project stockroutes in the southern provinces to accumulate data on
operating techniques and costs, and hopefully to demonstrate the financial
advantages to truck and cattle owners (para 2.17). If the operation was
financially successful, private operators would purchase new cattle trucks
using credit which would be made available through the AIDB (Annex 5,
Table 2), and replace LMB trucks over these routes. LMB would then move its
trucks to other routes and again attempt to entice private operators into
the business. During negotiations assurances were obtained that LMB would
actively encourage private trucking operators and that once the latter would
adequately service a particular route LMB trucks would no longer service
that route.



- 1 1 -
Slaughter Facilities and Hide Sheds
3.15      The Project, over four years, would construct 159 slaughter facilities
at selected municipal centers throughout the country. Three basic types are
planned, varying from a simple roof-covered concrete slab, equipped with a
hoist and meat hooks, to a slaughterhouse, complete with a modest plant for
processing offal. In each instance, the municipality would provide land,
and, if available, water and electricity. Responsibility for design, con-
struction and operation would rest with the LMB (para 3.04). During negotia-
tions assurances were obtained that LMB would obtain the approval of IDA
before building a Project slaughter facility in a place substantially different
in location than those indicated on Map No. IBRD 3866.
3.16      The throughput of cattle at the slaughter facilities would vary
from 400 a year in the smallest (Model I) to over 5,200 a year in the largest
(Model III) (Annex 6). In the smaller facilities (Models I and II), the
slaughtering would be carried out by the butchers themselves, while the
largest would provide a complete service, including delivery of meat to
town butchers. Attached to each slaughter facility would be a hide shed,
complete with frames for suspension drying.
3.17      Basic inputs would be fencing, gates, buildings, simple slaughter
equipment, water installation, cattle pens, and hide sheds and frames. In
Model III slaughterhouses, a vehicle for meat delivery would also be provided
(Annex 6, Tables 1, 3 and 5).
3.18      Day-to-day operations at the slaughter facilities would be
directed by small LMB staffs attached to individual facilities. Where
necessary, they would be assisted, especially in maintenance and repair
and in financial matters, by one of the slaughter facilities and hide shed
teams (para 3.38). The most important input for the teams would be vehicles
and training (Annex 6, Table 7). During negotiations, it was agreed that
arrangements satisfactory to the Association for such training would be
concluded as a condition of effectiveness.
Fattening Ranches
3.19      It is expected that credit would be provided through AIDB to
landowners holding large tracts of potentially good grazing land for develop-
ment of five grass-fed fattening ranches as a pilot scheme. Projections for
such ranches have been prepared for a model ranch of 3,500 ha, carrying
some 1,180 steers and purchasing 800 unfinished animals for fattening
annually (Annex 7). The data generated by these relatively large ranches
would be most useful as a guide to future development which would probably
be based on large units owned by tribes or groups.
3.20      Basic on-ranch inputs, which would be restricted to a minimum for a
daily cattle herding routine, comprise a boundary fence, night paddock
fencing, firebreaks for fire control and grazing area demarcation, access
road, a store, staff housing, cattle handling facilities, an equipped
borehole with reservoir, pipe and troughs, a dam, vehicles, and cattle



- 12 -
handling equipment. Working capital would also be provided for initial
purchase of 1,100 immature steers for fattening and, because the ranch would
show no revenue until the third year of operation, for incremental operating
costs for the first two years. A Ranching Specialist would help ranchers in
this new endeavor (para 3.44).
Project Preparation
3.21      The Bank Group Livestock Review and Identification Mission which
visited Ethiopia in April/May 1970, and the recent Agricultural Sector
Review Mission identified many promising livestock sub-projects, which
could possibly be incorporated into one or more comprehensive development
projects. A final selection has not yet been made of the particular project
to be prepared. A selection will be necessary because Ethiopia does not have
personnel to develop all these promising livestock projects simultaneously.
An amount of US$400,000 equivalent would be included in this Project to
finance preparation of a future project. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would: (i) consult with the Association
with regard to the livestock development project or projects to be prepared,
the plan of operations, the estimated costs and proposed financing plan for
each study or studies, and the organization (if other than UIB or the Ministry
of Agriculture) that would carry out the required study or studies; and (ii)
employ personnel and/or consultants acceptable to the Association on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
LMB Headquarters Technical and Administrative Assistance
3.22      In addition to the inputs for the marketing teams (para 3.08),
the mobile maintenance units (para 3.13), and the slaughter facilities and
hide shed teams (para 3.18), the Project would finance additional technical
and administrative assistance. This would consist of the following: (a) the
Head of the Market and Stockroute Department (Annex 4, Table 8); (b) the Head
of the Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Department (Annex 6, Table 7);
(c) the Administrative Manager and his Deputy, Chief Accountant and his
Deputy, Marketing Specialist, Construction Officer and Draftsman, and account-
ing consultant services for 14B (Annex 9); and (d) the Ranching Specialist to
be seconded to the LMB. The cost of this technical and administrative
assistance (including the cost of accounting consultant services of US$165,000)
would amount to US$1.21 million.
C. Cost Estimates
3.23      The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$6.43 million, of
which US$2.22 million, or 35%, represents foreign exchange requirements.
Besides, on-ranch investments and private cattle trucks (expected to be fi-
nanced through AIDB) would cost about US$0.54 million and US$0.16 million,
respectively. Estimated Project costs are summarized as follows:



- 13 -
Total Project Cost                %        %
US$ millions       Total  Foreign
---Eth$ millions--- ----Equivalent ---- Project  Exchange
Local  Foreign Total Local Foreign Total  Cost       Cost
Markets and Stock-
routes
Water Facilities   1.43      0.25   1.68  0.62   0.11   0.73   11        15
Fencing, Yards, and
Buildings           1.14     0.29   1.43  0.49   0.13   0.62   10        20
Labor               0.93      -     0.93  0.41    -      0.41    7        0
Equipment and
Supplies            0.46     0.16   0.62  0.20   0.07   0.27    4        25
Sub-total      3.96      0.70   4.66  1.72   0.31   2.03   32        18
Slaughter Facilities
Buildings and
Equipment           1.89     0.33   2.22  0.82   0.14   0.96   15        15
Miscellaneous       0.01     0.01   0.02  0.01   0.00   0.01    -        25
Sub-total      1.90      0.34   2.24  0.83   0.14   0.97   15        15
Vehicles             0.39     0.91   1.30  0.17   0.39   0.56    9        70
Training Fees        0.22      -      0.22  0.10    -     0.10    1        0
Technical and
Administrative
Assistance          0.84     1.95   2.79  0.36   0.85   1.21   19         70
LMB Incremental
Working Capital    0.98       -      0.98  0.43    -      0.43    7       0
Project Preparation 0.28      0.64   0.92  0.12   0.28   0.40    6        70
Contingencies
Physical            0.73     0.39   1.12  0.32   0.17   0.49    7        35
Price               0.37     0.19   0.56  0.16   0.08   0.24    4        35
Sub-total      1.10      0.58   1.68  0.48   0.25   0.73   11        35
Total Project Cost  9.67      5.12  14.79  4.21   2.22   6.43  100        35
On-Ranch Investments
Fixed Investments  0.45      0.11   0.56  0.19   0.05   0.24             20
Incremental Working
Capital             0.66     0.02   0.68  0.29   0.01   0.30              3
Sub-total       1.11     0.13   1.24  0.48   0.06   0.54             10
Private Cattle
Transporters        0.11     0.25   0.36  0.05   0.11   0.16             70
Costs have been estimated at prices current during Project appraisal and,
except for project preparation, and LMB incremental working capital a physical
contingency of 10% and a price contingency of 5% of base-line cost have been
included.



- 14 -
D. Financing
3.24      Financing would be shared in the following amounts (US$ millions)
and proportions:
Government        IDA          LMB         Total
Anount   %   Amount   %  Amount   %  Amount   %
LM'3 Operations
Investments               1.36   25    4.09   75    -        -   5.45   85
Incremental Working
Capital                 -     -       -     -    0.43  100   0.43    7
Subtotal         1.36   23    4.09   70   0.43    7   5.88   92
Government Operations
Project Preparation       0.10   25    0.30   75    -        -   0.40    6
Ranching Specialist       0.04   25    0.11   75    -        -   0.15    2
Share in Total
Project Cost              1.50   23    4.50   70   0.43    7   6.43  100
_==   =  = -
In addition to financing shown above, there would be financial requirements
for private fattening ranches and privately operated cattle trucks.  It is
expected, however, that these would be financed by AIDB, either from its own
funds or by using funds from the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
Project (para 2.26).
3.25      LMB would not be able to contribute to the costs of financing
Project facilities which would be financed by Government (25%) and by the
IDA Credit (75%). LMB would, however, make a substantial contribution by
financing cumulative operating deficits in the early years of about US$0.6
million from its current cash resources (Appendix 3-5). The IDA Credit would
also finance 75% of the cost of preparing a future livestock project, and
the Ranching Specialist; the Government would finance the remaining 25%.
The inclusion of US$2.28 million for local currency financing is justified
on country grounds and would be necessary to bring about the improvements
in LMIB's organization and management required under the Project.
3.26      The IDA Credit would be made to Government on the usual terms with
Government assuming the foreign exchange risk. Except for funds for future
project preparation and grant financing (paras 3.33 and 3.45), IDA funds would
be on-lent to LMB for a term of 20 years at 3/4 of 1% for the first five years
and 8% thereafter. The financial contribution of the Government would be
made available to LMB on terms and conditions not less favorable than the above.
These terms are based on LMB's ability to service the debt from Project income
(Appendices 3-4 and 3-5). It would be a condition of effectiveness that a
Project Financing Agreement, acceptable to IDA, covering the terms and condi-
tions of on-lending and grant financing had been signed between Government and
LMB.



- 15 -
E. Procurement
3.27      Since LMB would execute the main components of the Project, bulking
of most items would be feasible. Purchase under the Project of LMB vehicles
and equipment under contracts estimated at US$20,000 or more would be subject
to international competitive bidding. The construction of markets, stockroutes,
and slaughter facilities would also be subject to international competitive
bidding, but advertising would be limited to local papers and papers in
neighboring countries because the size of individual contracts would be small.
For instance, in year-1 it is planned to construct eight markets at a total
cost of about US$50,000, and 23 slaughter facilities widely dispersed at a
total cost of about US$150,000. Borehole drilling, test pumping, and equipping
would be carried out by the Ministry of Mines or the National Water Resources
Commission. If any procurement were made over the IDA's reasonable objection,
no expenditure thereunder would be financed out of the proceeds of the credit.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that procurement would be carried
out in accordance with the above.
F. Disbursements
3.28      Disbursements are expected to extend over four years which is also
the length of the development period (Annex 10). The proceeds of the Credit
would be disbursed to cover 100% of foreign or 75%O of total expenditures
for vehicles and technical assistance. No disbursements would be made for
IMB incremental working capital. Seventy-five percent of expenditures for
other Project costs would be disbursed against certified statements of
expenditure. The records and documentation justifying expenditures for
"'other Project costs" claimed against certified statements of expenditure
should be kept by LMB and available to IDA representatives for inspection.
The estimated schedule of quarterly IDA disbursements is given in Annex 11.
Surplus Credit amounts would be subject to cancellation since their use to
cover similar expenditures would require a new project preparation and
appraisal.
G. Organization and Management
3.29      Proclamation No. 212, 1964 gives adequate legal powers to LMB,
which was originally established to undertake precisely the type of development
now proposed. The staffing and organization required for Project implemen-
tation would become an integral part of LMB and there would be no need for
special handing-over arrangements at the end of the Project period.
3.30      Project Organization Within LMB.  Project organization within LMB
would be centered around six senior posts, which would be newly created:



- 16 -
(a) Project Manager, who would be responsible to the
General Manager for overall coordination;
(b) Head of the Market and Stockroute Department, who would
be responsible for on-the-job training of the marketing
teams and operation of the livestock markets, stockroutes
and marshalling yards; the mobile maintenance units; and
the LMB-operated cattle trucks;
(c) Head of Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Department, who
would be responsible for the operation of the slaughter
facilities and hide sheds, and the slaughter facilities
and hide shed teams who would also concentrate on the hide
and skin improvement countrywide;
(d) Construction Officer, who would be responsible for the
planning and phasing of construction works including the
preparation of detailed drawings, bills of quantities,
arrangements with contractors and the supervision of work;
(e) Export Marketing Specialist, who would investigate ways of
increasing the export value of Ethiopian livestock products,
with particular reference to hides and skins, and recommend
suitable market arrangements, considering particularly
whether LMB should itself undertake export business; and
(f) Financial Officer, who would be responsible to the General
Manager for the design and operation of an effective accounting
system for the Project and for LMB as a whole.
3.31      All these positions, except that of the Export Marketing Specialist,
would be executive posts. In view of the shortage of suitably trained and
experienced managers in Ethiopia, it may be necessary to recruit internation-
ally for persons to fill the above posts. The Export Marketing Specialist
would be appointed for a three-year term while the others would remain for
four years. For those posts filled by non-Ethiopians, Ethiopians would be
recruited to serve as deputies and to eventually take over all posts except
that of the Construction Officer. This position would cease to exist when
the Project is completed. Retroactive financing from the credit has been
proposed for expenditures incurred after July 15, 1972 in an amount not
exceeding $30,000 toward employment of the six senior project officials, the
Ranching Specialist, and the Accounting Consultant for LMB.
3.32      The appointment of a suitably qualified and experienced Project
Manager, hlead of the Market and Stockroute Department, Head of the Slaughter
Facilities and Hide Shed Department, Construction Officer, and Financial
Officer acceptable to IDA and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA,
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. It was assured during negotia-
tions that prior to filling the post of Export Marketirzg Specialist, IDA
would be consulted and given time to comment on the qtalifications, terms of
reference, and terms and conditions of employment of the person proposed to
fill the position, and that such a person would be hired within eighteen
months of the date of the Legal Agreements.



- 17 -
3.33      In those cases where non-Ethiopians were appointed to any of the
positions mentioned above, LMB would be required to meet only the local cost
and the remaining cost would be met by Government as a grant to LMB
from the proceeds of the Credit (para 3.26).
3.34      Markets would be operated by teams from regional headquarters
under five LMOs and eight assistant livestock marketing officers (ALMOs).
Fifty-two of the markets wouild be operated by 13 mobile teams, each comprising
one market master/auctioneer, one driver, one cash guard, one animal health
assistant, one vaccinator, and sorters, clerks and watchmen as required.
Each team would be responsible for a group of markets that formed a convenient
circuit from the regional headquarters. The remaining two markets in Nazret
and Mekele would be operated by resident teams similarly staffed. In addition,
the Addis Ababa market, though not built by the Project, would be operated
by an LMB resident marketing team.
3.35      The stockroutes would also be the responsibility of LMOs and ALMOs,
who would ensure that stockroute permits and veterinary movement permits
were issued at Project markets by the marketing teams, on payment of the
appropriate fees, for all cattle intending to use the stockroutes. The
LMOs and ALMOs would also ensure that permits would be checked along the
stockroutes so that grazing and other facilities would be reserved for the
exclusive use of fee-paying trade stock and that the assets would be
properly maintained.
3.36      The maintenance of the market and stockroute facilities would be
carried out under the LMOs by five mobile maintenance teams. Each team would
comprise three tradesmen and four laborers with tools and equipment, including
a replacement borehole pump and engine.
3.37      The LMB cattle trucking operations, which would involve five trucks
acquired over the first three years of the Project, would be the direct
responsibility of the Head of the Market and Stockroute Department.
3.38      The Head of the Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Department
would control the 159 slaughter facilities and hide sheds through teams to be
established in 14 principal towns. Each team would consist of a superinten-
dent, a driver/mechanic, and six technicians trained in slaughterhouse
operations, but especially in correct flaying and hide preparation methods
(para 3.18). A team would be responsible for the proper operation of all the
slaughter facilities within its area and it would also license and collect
fees from butchers for the use of the centers. The mechanic would be respon-
sible for the maintenance of slaughterhouse equipment. The area office would
maintain a small stock of spares and consumable stores for the slaughter
facilities, while large items would be carried in store at Addis Ababa.
3.39      The slaughter facilities and hide shed teams would demonstrate
improved flaying and hide preparation techniques, not only at the LMB
slaughter facilities and hide sheds, but in other parts of their regions
where such methods were unknown. This extension function would be their
primary task.



- 18 -
3.40      Implementation of the Project would require close coordination be-
tween LMB and the various ministries and government departments concerned, and,
where Project facilities were located within municipal boundaries, the munici-
palities. To a large extent, this would be achieved by day-to-day contact
maintained by LMB's management. Arrangements are required for veterinary
services and for the construction and operation of slaughterhouses and market
facilities. IMB has entered into an agreement with the Veterinary Department
of the Ministry of Agriculture providing for meat inspection services and all
veterinary services connected with markets, stockroutes, and any other Project
facilities to remain the responsibility of the Department, which would provide
the necessary staff. In the particular case of the animal health assistants
and vaccinators attached to marketing teams (para 3.34), even though they would
be paid by LMB and be part of the marketing teams, they would be under the
direction of, and be responsible to, the Veterinary Department for all matters
of a veterinary nature. Assurances have been obtained that the Government
would ensure that satisfactory arrangements would be made with each munici-
pality in which Project facilities would be located, providing for, inter alia:
(i)  LMB to undertake, within its boundaries, the design, construction
by contract, operation, maintenance, supervision and control of
Project installations such as slaughter facilities, hides and
skins sheds, and livestock markets; and to fix and collect all
charges and fees in connection with these installations;
(ii)  the enforcement by the municipality of the proper utilization
of these installations.
3.41      The individual stockroutes would be gazetted as rights-of-way
and LMB would also obtain title to them. It was assured during negotiations
that as a condition of disbursement under the IDA Credit for investments on
a stockroute: (a) LMB would have title to the stockroute; and (b) the stock-
route would be gazetted as a right-of-way.
3.42      Annually, at the time of budget preparation, LMB would review,
inter alia:
(a) the level of fees charged for the use of markets, stockroutes,
slaughter facilities and trucks;
(b) staffing level at the various facilities; and
(c) adequacy of maintenance.



- 19 -
It was agreed with the Government that LMB would submit to the Association
upon request the financial projections covering its entire operations and
that an opportunity would be given to the Association to propose some changes
if judged appropriate. It was assured during negotiations that LMB would take
all stes necessary or desirable to obtain and maintain such fees as would
provide revenues sufficient: (a) to cover operating expenses, adequate
maintenance and depreciation, and interest; (b) to meet repayment on long-term
indebtedness to the extent that such repayments exceed provision for depre-
ciation; and (c) to provide a reasonable surplus.
3.43      The future role of LMB outside the Project and Government's
policy towards it are not entirely clear. Although, to date, LMB has done
a satisfactory job preparing livestock projects, it seems possible that the
work of Project preparation may be transferred by Government to the planning
unit of the Ministry of Agriculture. It seems probable that LMB's other
activities will continue more or less as at present without rapid expansion,
as implementation of the Project would lead to a rapid growth of its
staffing (from about 100 at present to about 1,200 in year-4 of the Project),
and operations and would keep its management resources fully extended. There
are no plans for it to engage in livestock trading or in price support
activities.
H. Lending Operations
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
3.44      Any subloans to private ranchers and truckers would be financed by
AIDB either from its own funds or by using funds from the Agricultural and
Industrial Development Bank Project (para 2.26). A Ranching Specialist,
acceptable to IDA and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, would be
appointed to help prepare plans for the fattening ranches and supervise
their implementation. At present there is little experience in commercial
ranching in Ethiopia and such a man would be required to gain the confidence
of potential investors and to train AIDB's staff.
3.45      Since the entire cost of the Ranching Specialist would be regarded
as a development expense, it would be met by Government as a grant. The
Specialist would, at least initially, be attached to LMB.
I. Accounts and Audit
3.46      The accounts staff and procedures of LMB are barely adequate
for its present level of activities and both would have to be greatly
strengthened for the purposes of the Project.



- 20 -
3.47      There are, at present, no professionally qualified people on the
accounting staff. A set of double entry books is maintained and trial
balances are extracted monthly and annual accounts are prepared by the
auditors; but accounts for the year ending July 7, 1971 and the auditors'
report thereon had been prepared only in draft by December 1971, while trial
balances had been prepared for July and August. An annual budget is
prepared for expenditure but not for revenue.
3.48      There appeared to be weaknesses in internal control.  First,
receipts from Customs for hide and skin export duties are deposited in a lump
sum in LMB's account with no accompanying statement or routine, methodical
checks to ensure that all revenue due has been received. Second, the
operation of a revolving fund for the purchase of hides and skins was
unfavorably commented on by the auditors, who made recommendations for an
improved procedure that LMB proposes to implement.
3.49      The Project accounts would be fully integrated with, and form a part
of, an improved and strengthened system of accounts for LMB as a whole. The
accounting system would, of course, be required to show, in accordance with
sound consistently applied principles, the application of Credit funds and
the revenues and expenditures of the various components of the Project so
that the financial results of the operation could be fairly assessed. While
the system of accounting could be relatively simple, the collection of cash
at numerous, geographically scattered locations and the related expenditures
would require a carefully designed system of internal control and that staff
at all levels be properly trained.
3.50      For this purpose, it would be necessary to appoint a Financial
Officer with suitable professional qualifications and experience (paras 3.22,
3.30 and 3.32). In addition, LMB would be required to engage within 90 days
of Credit effectiveness a firm of accountants acceptable to IDA and on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA to assist in the design and introduction of
the new system. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that LMB would
engage such a firm within 90 days of Credit effectiveness.
3.51      1IB's accounts are audited by the Ethiopian firm of Mann Judd and
Co., who are associated with the London firm of the same name. The firm
also acts as auditors for AIDB and other large organizations in Ethiopia and
would be acceptable to IDA as independent auditors. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that LIB's accounts would continue to be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that LMB would submit to IDA
audited annual accounts and the auditor's report within six months of the
end of its financial year.



- 21 -
IV. PROJECT FINANCIAL RESULTS
Government Cash Flow From Project
4.01      The demands of the Project on Government finances are detailed in
Annex 12.  By year-4, Government would have made a net Project contribution
of US$1.50 million. The cumulative negative balance would decline thereafter
and become positive by year-8.
Financial Rates of Return
4.02      Annex 13 gives the financial rates of return of all Project compo-
nents, including private ranches and trucking. LMB would obtain a financial
rate of return of 9%. The five private fattening ranches would have financial
rates of return of about 13%. While this also is modest, several landowners
expressed an interest in participating in and pioneering this type of develop-
ment in Ethiopia if specialist advice was provided. The financial rates of
return to private truckers are estimated at about 43%. If this type of
development proceeds as expected, there should be ample demand for the
trucking loans after lMB has demonstrated the profitability of different
routes. It is estimated that, after paying market and stockroute fees, the
cattle owner would save about US$1.00 per head by using Project markets and
stockroutes. This would be equivalent to about a 2X increase in the sale
price of an animal. By using correct flaying methods, the value of hides
would be doubled with little expense to the butcher.
Project Impact
4.03      LNB's Project accounts would provide a continuing source of data
from which to measure Project impact. For instance, the revenues would
reveal the extent to which Project facilities were used. In addition, during
negotiations assurances were obtained that LMB would record the weight losses
on the Project stockroutes using a sampling technique and compare these with
the losses now known to take place (para 2.17); and also record the number
of improved hides exported annually as the Project proceeds.
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The economic rate of return is estimated at about 22% (Annex 14).
About 50% of the benefits would be derived from meat saved on livestock
using the improved markets and stockroute system; about 30% from hide
improvements; and the rest from beef production on ranches, and services
from trucking and slaughtering. About 60% of the benefits from improved
hides are expected to come from improvements in hide preparation outside
the slaughter facilities constructed by the Project. These improvements,
would result from the demonstration effect of the Project hide sheds, and
the extension efforts of the slaughter facilities and hide shed teams.



- 22 -
On balance, the Project carries a low risk that the economic benefits would
not be fully realized. Should no improvement in hide quality materialize
except in the Project hide sheds, then the economic rate of return would drop
to about 15%. The organizational problems LMB might be confronted with in
connection with the Project may lead to some delays in project implementation,
thus possibly introducing some slippage in the schedule presented in Annex 10.
The abilities of LIB in this respect are difficult to judge at this stage.
5.02      The infrastructure created by the Project would be the first step
in developing the beef cattle industry of Ethiopia. The improvements in
the markets and stockroute system should lower marketing costs and enable
more large buyers to regularly buy cattle in the primary markets. This
should improve competition, raise producer prices, and improve the general
functioning and confidence of producers in the marketing system. These
developments would be important in setting the groundwork for later
production oriented projects.  The five private fattening ranches that
would be developed would generate much needed data on the technical, finan-
cial and economic coefficients required for planning future large scale
production oriented projects.
5.03      The Project would generate additional foreign exchange earnings
from expanded exports. The following table shows the foreign exchange costs
and benefits for investments, the development period which is through
year-4 and at full development in year-10:
Development Period Full Development
Investments     Through Year-4       or Year-10
----------------US$ million ------------------
Foreign Exchange Benefits       --               0.8                1.3
Foreign Exchange Costs          2.4              0.7                0.3
Balance                   (2.4)             0.1                1.0
These figures are calculated without taking account of the capital inflow
from, or cost of servicing the IDA Credit. The foreign exchange benefit is
expected to result from the increased value of hide exports. All incremental
meat production is expected to be consumed locally.
5.04      Since Project benefits would be directly proportional to cattle
marketed, moved along a stockroute or slaughtered in an improved slaughter
facility and since nearly every family in rural Ethiopia own some cattle,
benefits should be well dispersed throughout the countryside. Employment
effects would be substantial. The permanent increase in LMB staff as a
result of the Project would be about 1,100, mostly semi-skilled. In addition,
during the construction period about 3,000 man-years would be required to
build Project facilities.



- 23 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During Credit negotiations, the following main assurances were
obtained:
(a) the Government would obtain IDA approval on the livestock
projects to be prepared, and on the organizations and/or
consulting firms and the individuals to be engaged for
the preparation, and on the terms and conditions of their
engagement (para 3.21);
(b) the LMB would, within 90 days of Credit effectiveness,
engage a firm of accountants acceptable to IDA and on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA to assist in the
design and introduction of an accounting system for the
LMB (para 3.50).
6.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that:
(a)  LMB had hired a Project Manager, Head of the MIarketing
and Stockroute Department, Head of the Slaughter Facilities
and Hide Shed Department, Construction Officer, and Financial
Officer acceptable to IDA and on terms and conditions accept-
able to IDA (para 3.32);
(b) the Government and IMB had signed a Project Financing
Agreement, acceptable to IDA, covering the terms and con-
ditions of on-lending and grant financing (para 3.26);
(c) arrangements satisfactory to IDA had been made for the
training of the teams responsible for operating and main-
taining the slaughter facilities and hide sheds (para 3.18).
6.03      With the foregoing assurances, the Project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$4.5 million.
October 17, 1972






ANTNEX 1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Production and Marketing
A. Introduction
2
1.        Ethiopia has a total area of some 1.2 million km . Much of this
is either mountainous or desert, but some 0.7 million km2 are estimated to
be suitable for economic livestock development. The livestock population
which is the largest of any country in Africa, is currently estimated to
comprise 26 million cattle, 24-27 million sheep and goats, 6.6 million
equines, and 1 million camels, and, although there are no reliable statistics,
it is believed that numbers have not changed significantly over the past
10 years.
2.        The arable areas with better rainfall are typically farmed by
smallholders on a subsistence economy, each keeping small numbers of
cattle, sheep and goats for milk and meat and relying on oxen for draft
power. The drier areas -- below 700 mm rainfall per annum -- are mainly
occupied by nomadic and semi-nomadic people with larger herds of cattle
and sheep which provide surpluses for sale.
B. Background
Land Tenure
3.        There are four main classes of land tenure:
(a)  Ccmmunal, mainly practiced in the north where families and
other grousps own and farm the land. Periodic redistributions
of the lands have led to fragmented holdings;
(b) Leasehold, from individuals, the Government and the Church.
In many cases, this system is complicated by sub-leases and
grazing agreements which exploit the ultimate user, and is
typified by a reluctance of landlords to develop their
properties;
(c) Individual owner occupancy over a relatively small part
of the total area; and
(d) Traditional rights over Government land. Some 75% of land
classified as "Government Land" is occupied by nomadic
pastoralists who have developed social systems for its use
and water control.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
A Ministry of Land Reform and Administration has been established to improve
the leasehold system, and legislation drafted by this Ministry is currently
being examined by Government.
Transport
4.        The country is served by paved or all weather dirt roads
radiating from Addis Ababa to the main towns but the system of secondary/
feeder roads is poor, and there are no stockroutes with grazing and watering
facilities. Addis Ababa is connected to the port of Djibouti in French
Somaliland by rail, but cattle carrying capacity is limited to 44 wagons.
There is also a railway connecting Asmara with the port of Massawa on the
Red Sea.
Contribution to the Economy
5.        Although productivity is low, livestock still makes a substantial
contribution to the Gross Domestic Product. In 1970, the value of agricul-
tural production was as follows:
Eth$ million at 1967 prices
Meat                             285
Milk                             148
Hlides and Skins                  21
Eggs                             40
Other                             60
Farm Processing                   97
Total                      651
This compares with the estimated 1970 GDP for the agricultural sector of
Eth$ 2,200 million and the total GDP of Eth$ 3,800 million. On this basis,
livestock contributes 24% to the agricultural sector GDP and 15% to the
national GDP.
6.        Following coffee and oilseeds which are Ethiopia's largest exports
and earners of foreign exchange, hides and skins are the most important
export item and in 1970 accounted for Eth$ 25.0 million or about 8% of
total exports. Meat exports, mainly in canned form, are comparatively
small.
7.        The predominant goal of the Third Five Year Plan is to increase
the total volume of the nation's output of goods and services by about
one-third, and of the planned increase in production of Eth$ 1,200 million,
agriculture would account for Eth$ 327 million (27%). Emphasis has
been placed on increased exports of livestock and livestock products. The
plan recognizes the need for a carefully conceived and realistic livestock
development policy including improvements in the marketing and processing
of livestock and livestock products.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
C. Livestock Species
Cattle
8.        These are mainly of Zebu type (Bos Indicus) and range from small
short-horned black cattle resistant to the wet cold highland areas to the
superior beef types of the low, warmer arid areas.
9.        Sixty percent of all cattle in Ethiopia are owned by some 20
million sedentary farmers in the highlands whose herds include about 28%
adult females and 40% work oxen. The remaining 40% are owned by 2.5 million
nomadic pastoralists whose herds include about 50% adult female cattle.
10.       The small cattle owners in the highlands use the cattle in arable
farming on the plateau, and it is estimated that some 6 million head of
cattle are used for draft purposes. When worn out and no longer capable
of work the oxen are mainly consumed by the farming community. Some 1
million per year are culled from the herd of draft cattle, but only about
100,000 of these come into the market stream and provide the main cattle
supply for the export canning plants.
11.       Milk, rather than meat, is another reason for owning cattle
especially in the nomadic areas of the lowlands where the herds consist
mainly of cows and stock with a few bulls. The lowlands is the real cattle
country and from the more settled herds come the bulk of the better type
slaughter stock for the major centers, such as Dilla, a large consuming area,
and Addis Ababa where local consumption calls for about 80,000 head/year.
12.       Cattle management is generally of a low standard typified by
overgrazing, night paddocking without food, ineffective culling, and
ignorance of disease control resulting in low production: 40% to 50%
weaning rates, high adult mortality, and a total offtake of around 6%. The
situation is exacerbated in many areas by poorly distributed and inadequate
water supplies.
13.       A further factor influencing the cattle industry is the steady
increase in the acreage of cultivated land resulting from rising grain prices
and population growth. This is causing further overgrazing and the necessity
to destock; if the trend continues, moreover, it would become harder to find
suitable areas which can be set aside for grazing reserves along stockroutes.
14.       The major diseases affecting cattle are:
(a) Rinderpest. In recent years, some 2.5% of the national
herd has been affected annually by this disease.
The Africa-wide JP-15 Joint Campaign for the eradication
of rinderpest by a series of compulsory but free vaccinations
is progressing and can be expected to cause a reduction in
mortality rates. The program will, however, aggravate the
problem of overgrazing unless offtake is increased;



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(b) Contagious Bovine Pleuro-Pneumonia (CBPP) is widespread and
continues to be spread by the movement of livestock without
veterinary control. To the extent that vaccine is available,
vaccinations against CBPP are being given with those for
rinderpest during the JP-15 program, and this will help
control the disease;
(c) Foot and Mouth Disease is endemic to Ethiopia and types A,
0 and C have been identified. Vaccination is not widely
practiced in the ranching areas but are administered in
association with quarantine inspections to cattle entering
certain meat factories;
(d) Brucellosis is common in herds and probably contributes
to low calving rates in the national herd;
(e) Trypanosomiasis is confined to parts of the western and
southwestern areas of the country;
(f) Tick-born Diseases. A variety of ticks occur and act as
vectors for a group of livestock diseases - anaplasmosis,
prioplasmosis, etc. - but although the vector - ripecephalus
appendiculatus - responsible for transmitting East Coast
Fever is present, the disease has not been identified in
Ethiopia;
(g)  Anthrax, Blackguarter, Haemorrhagic Septicaemia are present
and sporadically cause locally severe losses;
(h) Internal parasites are a major cause of poor productivity
throughout the country. Eighty to ninety percent of all
livers at slaughterhouses are contaminated, probably 25%
of the national herd carries beef measles with some 2%
of commercial slaughterings being totally condemned, and
the incidence of round worms is widespread. Campaigns by
the Veterinary Department to encourage farmers to treat their
cattle with available low cost drugs are unsuccessful because
of the limited field service and inadequate distribution
outlets for the drugs; and
(i) Skin Diseases. There are a variety of the common skin
diseases in Ethiopia contributing to reductions in the value
of hides.
Sheeps and Goats
15.       About 75% of the national flock is located in the highland areas
and comprises lightweight - mature ewes 28-30 kg liveweight -- fat-tailed
hair sheep of poor conformation. Sheep mainly comprise indigenous mutton
types of which the blackhead, fat-tailed Persian breed found in the dry
western lowlands (Ogaden, Jijiga) is of great economic importance and is in
demand by Arabian importing countries.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
16.       There is a substantial difference in management techniques and
production patterns between the highlands and the lowlands. The former
area is characterized by close cultivation and heavy human population
densities where small flocks of sheep and goats receive little attention
and are left to forage on the poorer lands with resultant overgrazing and
poor growth weights. The flocks are mainly used for local and subsistence
consumption and in some cases also have social prestige values.
17.       Lowland sheep production - where flocks are larger - is
characterized in the Ogaden/Jijiga area by seasonal lambing, castration,
culling for age; ewe hoggets and wethers are normally grazed separately
from lambs and rams. Weaning percentages are probably around 65-70% per
annum and adult mortality 7-8%. Total offtake including home consumption
is believed to be about 25%.
18.       Goats, which are typically small indigenous types, are an
important component of subsistence and cash income in the lowland areas
where some 75% of the national flock is distributed.
19.       From the limited data available it would seem that the following
diseases are important in sheep and goats:
(a) Pneumonia. Infectious and with a high incidence during
rainy seasons is probably a major contributor to lamb
mortality;
(b) Haemorrhagic Enteritis (possibly caused by Nairobi sheep
disease) causing locally severe mortality has been noted;
(c) Tick-born Diseases. A variety of ticks occur and act as
vectors including Amblyomma variegatum, the vector
responsible for transmitting heartwater, but a full evalua-
tion of the importance of these diseases to the indigenous
sheep and goats of Ethiopia has not been made;
(d) Internal Parasites are a major contributor to poor pro-
duction levels with liver fluke being particularly serious
in certain areas (not including the Jijiga area). Nasal
worms are also a problem in some areas;
(e) Lameness. Continuous night paddocking in contaminated
ground perpetuates foot-rot and contributes to poor weight
gains; and
(f) Predators. Jackals and hyenas are serious problems in many
areas.
A general characteristic of Ethiopian farmers is their receptiveness to
livestock extension advice. This is particularly true of the predominantly
sheep and goat graziers of the Jijiga area who have developed grazing and
management systems but lack veterinary advice and opportunities for the
purchase of veterinary requisites.



ANNEX I
Page 6
Camels
20.       These are of the heavy pack type as opposed to the lighter riding
type and are used for the transport of goods and for their milk and meat.
They are of great importance for subsistence for the nomadic pastoralists
living in the drier lowlands and also contribute to the cash economy of the
Ogaden area as an export to Somalia.
D. Government Services to the Livestock Industry
Veterinary Services Department
21.       This department, which is in the Ministry of Agriculture, has
five divisions comprising: field services, laboratories, disease diagnosis
and survey, meat inspection and quarantine, and animal health education.
Staff currently comprises 58 qualified veterinarians of whom 36 are foreign,
200 animal health assistants with two-year diploma qualifications, and some
450 vaccinators. There are no private veterinary practitioners in the
country. The Animal Health School at Debre Zeit, with an annual throughput
of 35 students (shortly to be increased to 50), provides some 25 new animal
nealth assistants a year and vaccinators are being recruited at a rate of
about 50 a year. The veterinary service in the field is, nevertheless,
seriously understaffed and its effectiveness is reduced by budgetary
limitations affecting transportation, allowances and materials. Lack of
continuous professional direction in the field is also a serious constraint.
It is possible that the service to stock owners will improve in 1973 when
more veterinary staff are released from their present duties with the JP-15
programa.
22.       Meat inspectors are selected from in-service animal health
assistants and are now given a five-month course at Asmara where there are
currently ten in training. They were formerly trained in Kenya. The number
available for duty in Ethiopia is inadequate.
23.       The Research Laboratory at Debre Zeit undertakes the regular
production of vaccines against rinderpest, CBPP, blackquarter and anthrax
combined and haemorrhagic septicaemia, and no charge is made for their
use. Imported vaccines are charged out to users at cost.
Animal Production Department
24.       The staff are mainly employed in running 16 Government farms
and stations, and this department has little impact on stock owners.
E. Stockroutes and M1arketing
Tradestock Movement Flows
25.       The country can roughly be divided into consumption and
production areas, and these set the pattern for the flow of trade stock.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
In the south, the three main consumption centers are Addis Ababa, with its
satellite market at Nazret, the Melgue Wondo Meat Packing Plan and the
densely-populated coffee growing area around Dilla. The main production
areas in this part of the country with surpluses for export are the southern
rangelands and the area to the east of the Rift Valley, thus the main flows
of trade stock are from these producing areas to Dilla, the Melgue Wondo
Meat Plant and northwards to Addis Ababa.
26.       In the north, surpluses are available in general throughout the
whole area, and there are four main consumer centers: the meat factories
at Gonder, Kembolcha and Mekele, and the Asmara meat factories and town.
The trade stock pattern is:
(a) from the western parts of Tigre Province to Gondar
and direct to Asmara;
(b) from the remaining highland areas to whichever of
the two meat plants is the closer; and
(c) from the eastern lowlands (Danakil area) mainly to
Kembolcha but with some slaughter stock moving northward
to Mekele.
27.       In the east, the main producing area is the Ogaden between the
Wabi Shebelli River and the Somalia border. The focal point for cattle
consumption is Dire Dawa, with its meat factory and its rail outlet to
Addis Ababa and Djibouti. For sheep and goats, however, the trade stock
movement is across the border at various points east and southeast of Dire
Dawa to traders in Somalia who re-export the stock to Arabian countries
through the Somalia port of Berbera.
28.       In addition to the above trade stock movements there is a
constant flow of immature male cattle from the main producing areas for
resale as work oxen in the more heavily cultivated highland areas throughout
the country.
29.       The number of animals currently supplied to the final consumer
centers from the stockroutes under review is estimated as follows:
Sheep
Cattle   and Goats   Camels
Addis Ababa (and Nazret)                            67,000    400,000        -
Melgue Wondo Meat Factory (60,000 capacity)         30,000        -
Dilla Coffee Area                                   33,000      18,000       -
Kembolcha M4eat Factory (45,000 Capacity)            15,000       -
Mekele Meat Factory (50,000 Capacity)               22,000        -
Mekele Market                                          -        90,000       -
Dire Dawa Meat Factory (60,000 Capacity)             16,000       -          -
Somalia                                             23,000    780,000    16,000



ANNEX 1
Page 8
The above numbers which do not show immature work oxen and local movements
of slaughter and breeding stock give an indication of the importance of the
stockroutes serving these consumer centers.
30.       Trade stock including immature work oxen are normally moved on
the hoof without veterinary restriction along traditional routes to the
consumer areas. These traditional routes, which often pass along the side
of an existing road, do not constitute legal rights of way and have no
fenced and controlled grazing and watering facilities, nor fenced night
resting paddocks. Journeys between watering points are, therefore, often
much longer than desirable, and animals are only able to graze sporadically
as they move along the route. This unsatisfactory situation results in
heavy weight losses during movement, excessive feed costs - particularly in
closely farmed areas - and in fines for trespass and damage to crops.
31.       Surveys carried out by the Livestock and Meat Board during Project
preparation indicate a mean weight loss of 1-1.5% liveweight per head per
day of movement, which amounts to some Eth$ 13.80 per head per trip for the
stockroutes included in the proposed Project if valued at the market price
paid per kg at the terminal market. The value of theft and mortality is
indicated as Eth$ 1.80 per head per trip.
Present Markets and Marketing Systems
32.       With few exceptions, a l-vestock market in Ethiopia comprises an
open place with no facilities, situated in or close to a town or village to
which livestock are brought in small lots at frequent intervals - often
daily - for sale.  Animals are normally traded by direct and time-consuming
bargaining with limited pub'lic awareness of actual price levels. In the
smaller markets the buyers, apart from a few local butchers, are usually
small livestock traders sometimes purchasing on behalf of bigger traders
and sometimes purchasing with the sole ob ective of re-trading the stock
in another market further down the stockroute. In a few markets, auctioneers
have established themselves and operate on a tribal basis, but this method
of selling is not widely practiced. Direct bargaining is also the rule
in the bigger markets at or near consumer centers where the buyers are
predominantly butchers and butchers' agents. Municipalities throughout
the country charge a fee for the use of the "market", conmonly Eth$ 2.00
per head for cattle and camels and Eth$ 0.30 for sheep and goats but only
a proportion of the fees are actually collected.
33.       Sales of slaughter stock to the rmeat factories are sometimes
made direct by the producer, but the more usual system is for the factory
to support a few major traders who themselves buy at the bigger markets
and have arrangements with smaller traders and agents at smaller markets.
34.       There is an urgent need to stimulate the offtake from the national
herd and channel it into the market stream. This will be determined by how
Var into the producing areas, and the rate at which organized marketing
:ac4lities will be introduced.  The small producer, presently a reluctant
sdeler, may change his cultural outlook towards cattle if given greater
tfianncal incentives.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
E'THIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPM1ENT PROJECT
Slaughter Facilities, hides and Skins Preparation and Marketing
A. Introduction
1.        After coffee and oilseeds, hides and skins are Ethiopia's most
important export item, with foreign exchange earnings of Eth$ 24.3 million
in 1970, or about 8% of total exports. Meat exports, mainly in canned form,
are comparatively small.
2.        More than 75% of the 1.2 million hides exported come from the
rural areas. The cattle are slaughtered under primitive conditions, usually
in an open field, and are flayed without skill using unsuitable tools. The
hides are mainly sun-dried "caravan" hides with a very low value on the
export market. By adopting improved flaying and drying techniques, the
present value of the hides could be more than doubled. The municipal
abattoirs at Addis Ababa and Asmara and the meat processing plants account
for the remaining 25% of hide exports.
3.        Export figures for sheep and goat skins average just over seven
million annually and account for about 70% of the total value of hide and
skin exports. As in the case of hides, the treatment and quality is poor.
The slaughter of sheep and goats, however, takes place for the most part
in homesteads for family consumption, so that it would be difficult to
disseminate improved methods of preparing the skins.
4.        The successful further development of the meat processing and hide
industry presupposes the introduction of an organized, effective cattle
marketing system, improved and additional stockroutes provided with water
facilities and enclosed night stops. In addition, the rural butcher and
producer require hygienic slaughter facilities together with hide-drying
sheds and suitable tools.
B. Slaughter Facilities
Rural Slaughter Facilities
5.        Except in a few large towns which possess a building and the basic
equipment usually found in a srmiall abattoir, the general practice throughout
the country is to slauglhter cattle in an open field and to cut up the carcass
on the ground.  A survey of 164 municipal slaughter facilities showed that



ANNEX 2
Page 2
only 20 possessed a building in w'hich slaughtering took place and seven worked
from a cement slab in the open. Only 14 of the facilities employed a
carcass hoist and 18 had electric lighlt; 36 had piped water and most of
the other centers had access to well or spring water, though 15 appeared to
be without any source of water supDly. One hundred and two of the facilities
surveyed were without any veterinary or health insDection services. Since
the 164 facilities covered by the survey, which had a total annual throughput
of about 240,000 liead of cattle, are located near main roads and points of
communications, it can be assumed that even larger numbers of cattle are
slaughtered in the remote areas without any facilities whatever.
.eat Processing Plants
6.        A significant feature of the meat processing industry of Ethiopia
is the geographical maldistribution of plants in relation to supplies of
slaughter cattle. Most of the plants are located in Northern Ethiopia
although, since commencing operations in Asmara, twjo organizations have found
it necessary to open abattoirs in Gonder, Mekele and Kembolcha to obtain
supplies of beef for their processing plants. The Shashamane plant, the only
one serving the southern region, which is potentially the most important cattle
producing area, has had a varied career since beginning operations in 1q63.
After becoming insolvent. it closed i4n 1967 and reopened in 1970 under new owner-
ship with Government participation through the Livestock and Meat Board
(DL).
7.        In all, there are eight export meat plants in Ethiopia.  Many
are equipped for freezing but, because of veterinary restrictions imposed
by the principal importing countries, do not have access to a market for
frozen beef wnich would permit them to pay a higher price for cattle. For
many years the meat plants have been operating well below capacity. They
are marginal buyers of the lowest quality cattle, mainly worn out draught
animals and do not compete at the markets for better quality cattle.
8.        The export processing plants are, therefore, engaged essentially
in canning. Because of the steady and substantial increase in the price
of corned beef over the past few years and with a more recent marked increase
in the price of meat extract, a by-product of corned beef, the canning plants
are extending their operations. One new venture is nearing completion and
the plant at Shashamane is planning large-scale canning operations.
C. ilides and Skins
Marketing of Hides and Skins
g.        The international hides and skins market is sensitive to tariff
levels and to changing fashions in footwear and clothing, as well as to the
overall balance of supply and dem1and.
Ten firms with offices in Addis Ababa and Asmara were responsible
or Eth$ 22 Lillion of the total Eth$ 25.0 million exports in 1970.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Competition exists between local tanners and exporting firms, particularly
for improved hides, but the exporting firms invariably outbid the tanners.
Both tanners and exporting firms are making new investments for the production
of pickled sheep skins destined for the export market.
11.       Although little information is generally available on the invoice
prices obtained overseas by the exporters, it is estimated that up to 90%
of the 1.2 million hides exported annually are low grade "caravan" hides
and bring a return to the producer of no more than Eth$ 3 per hide. This
is less than 50% of the price obtained for East African sun-dried hides from
roughly equivalent animals.
12.       The exceptionally low grading is the result of poor flaying and
improper drying; dirt, blood, and insect infestation are also common.
Faulty preparation very often results in damage which does not show up until
the hide is in the process of being tanned. By experience, however, the
tanning firms know the countries which produce low quality hides and offer
low prices to cover against possible losses.
Supply and Preparation of Hides
13.       The Ethiopian national cattle herd is estimated to be about 26
million; hide production for 1970 has been put at 2.7 million. Of this
latter figure, 1.2 million were exported and a little more than 0.2 million
used by the larger domestic tanneries. The remaining 1.3 million hides are
not accounted for, but may be assumed to have been taken up by rural tanners
or retained on farms. The prices paid for low quality hides offer little
encouragement to sell and, in many areas, there is also a lack of suitable
marketing channels.
14.       There is, therefore, great potential for increasing both the
quantity and quality of exports. Some preliminary steps have already been
taken to improve the situation. At 22 municipal centers, suspension drying
has been introduced and the improved hides have brought an average return
to the producer of about Eth$ 6.00.  Those hides prepared at the LIlAB's
demonstration centers bring an even better return. Certain of the processing
plants are using a dry salting process for hides, but these are too few
to have any impact on the market.
15.       Though the LM  possesses a nucleus of skilled staff operating
from their demonstration and instruction centers at Shashamane and Gonder,
there is still a lack of trained and technical personnel at all levels in
the hide industry. The training of more people in all aspects of flaying
and hide improvement is an indispensable component of any project to improve
hide quality in Ethiopia.
Supply and Preparation of Skins
16.       Census estimates of sheep and goats are generally combined.  The
estimates vary considerably but the numbers are gelnerally accepted as being
between 24 and 27 million. Production is limited to the sale of mature
animals although lambs are sold in limited numbers during major feasts.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
17.       Apart from exports, most of the sheep and goats are slaughtered
and consumed within family groups. Those for Moslem consumption are, of
course, required to be slaughtered in Halal-approved establishments. The
numbers going through municipal abattoirs, even in the large towns, are
small.
18.       The skins are air-dried, mainly by pegging, and are collected
from sub-agents in the rural areas by the dealers. Through lack of knowledge,
slaughtering facilities and suitable equipment, skins suffer the same poor
treatment as hides but since slaughtering for the great part takes place
in homesteads, the faults will be difficult to eradicate.
19.       Export figures for sheep and goat skins average just over 7,000,000
per annum and comprise about 70% of the total value of hide and skin exports.
The overseas demand for the skins in pickled state is keen and new ventures
into the business are being set up while existing firms are expanding their
activities in this direction.
20.       The larger local tanneries take some 1.3 million skins annually
and this demand is expected to double in the near future (para 25).
D. Tanning
Rural Tanneries
21.       There is little reliable information regarding the number of
people engaged in rural tanning, the number of hides processed or the
leather goods manufactured in thne villages.
22.       Undoubtedly, the main sources of supply for the rural tanners are
"1fallen hides"! and cattle slaughtered outside the jurisdication of municipal
authorities. In addition, a survey of the returns from rural slaughter
facilities indicates that rural tanners took rather more than 10% of the
ihides of the animals slaughtered there. The hides purchased by the village
tanners are, with very few exceptions, ground-dried, that is "caravan"
hides. Where facilities exist for suspension drying, the hides are sold
for the export trade and are not taken up by village tanners.
23.       It is to be expected that as the proposed greatly enlarged and
specially trained staff of LMB field technicians, operating on a nationwide
scale from the new slaughter facilities, teach correct methods of flaying
and drying of hides, their endeavors will so substantially increase the
value of the hides that they will be sold for the export market or to the
large tanneries. This is the pattern where hide improvement facilities
presently exist.



AN-NEX 2
Page 5
24.       The rural tanner will, therefore, continue to process a
diminishing supply of hides of poor quality.  The outlet for his finished
leather can only be for local, traditional, but diminishing domestic use
or for the production of bags, belts and leather novelties for a limited
tourist trade. This is best left as a village handicraft rather than be
supplemented by the addition of rural tanneries. Nonetheless, it is desirable
that village craftsmen be given an opportunity to improve upon their existing
methods. The skills of these men will be in demand when the time comes to
establish tanneries in the provinces for processing semi-finished leather.
INiechanized Tanneries
25.       There are two major tanneries in Addis Ababa which have a
combined annual throughput of about 200,000 hides and 800,000 skins. A
third tannery in Asmara has a throughput of about 100,000 hides and 500,000
skins. In addition, the new INVESTA Tannery will have capacity for an
annual throughput of 350,000 hides and 1,350,000 skins. It is being
constructed south of Addis Ababa and is expected to come into production
in 1973. Government has a major share in the venture.
26.       The manager of the largest of the existing tanneries admitted to
working at only 40% of capacity, partly because of the inadequate supply
of good quality hides. The mechanized tanneries should, therefore, be a
useful outlet for the improved hides becoming available as a result of the
Project. This is particularly important as the poor reputation of Ethiopian
hides in the export markets will take some time to overcome.
Proposed Regional Tanneries
27.       The Project as proposed by the LiKs included the establishment
of four regional tanneries producing semi-processed leather, with a combined
throughput of some 150,000 hides a year.
28.       This proposal is, for the longer term, well conceived and sound
in principle. The demand for semi-processed leather is growing as indus-
trialized countries face increasing problems, particularly with labor costs
and the disposal of effluent, in the preliminary stages of processing hides.
These problems are usually less severe in the developing countries. The
semi-processing to the "wet blue" stage adds some 30% to the value of the
hides. Ideally, the export of "caravan" hides should eventually be eliminated
and replaced by the export of semi-processed leather rather than by improved
suspension dried hides.
29.       Nevertheless, the proposal to establish regional tanneries within
the same period as the development of the hides improvement scheme is
premature.
30.       Firstly, the time required for the implementation of thle hides
improvement scheme, together with the likely demands of the larger tanneries,
make it doubtful that the required supply of improved hides would be
imuediately available.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
31.       Secondly, and in the long-run more importantly, the establishment
of regional tanneries before an adequate supply of good, sound hides were
available for semi-processing could cause lasting damage to the new industry.
To follow tine poor image of Ethiopian "caravan" hides on the export market
with the possible offering of sub-standard semi-processed leather would, in
the long-term be disastrous.
32.       The regional tannery component of the Project proposal needs to
be reviewed at a later date and might well form part of a future project.
In the meantime, any improved hides surplus to the requirements of the
existing tanneries, and later those of the new INVESTA Tannery, should be
placed on the export market with a view to building up a better image for
Ethiopian hides.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SECONID LIVESTOCK DEVELOPiENT PROJECT
Livestock and Ileat Board
Objectives and Powers
1.        The Livestock and Meat Board (LMB) is an independent body wnich
was created in 1964.  Copies of the Order establishing L,23 and the Procla-
mation conferring its powers are attached as Appendices 3-1 and 3-2
respectively.
2.       'T1he activities of LI-U relate to livestock, poultry, meat, eggs
and by-products (including hides and skins). Its objectives and purposes
are to:
(a) encourage production and marketing;
(b) collect and disseminate information and stimulate research
relating to production, processing and marketing;
(c)  promote the establishmenat and supervision of improved
stockroutes, watering points and marketing facilities;
(d)  assist the veterinary services of the Government; and
(e) promote sales by advertising at home and abroad and by
participating in international trade fairs.
3.        For these purposes, the LMBl has been given broad controlling and
regulatory powers including, inter alia, the power to:
(a) construct, own, lease and operate farms, warehouses, markets,
market processes, compounds and stock ponds;
(b) demarcate and establish stockroutes and watering points
and reserved grazing areas;
(c) draw up and establish reliable weighing procedures and create
specifications and enforce the same;
(d)  fix, impose and collect fees on all livestock, meat, poultry,
eggs and by-products processed in, or exported from, Ethiopia;
and
(e) fix, impose and collect fees on all livestock and poultry using
facilities of any sort provided by the Board.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        The components of the proposed Second Livestock Development
Project that would be implemented by LIB typify the sort of development
which it was created to undertake.
Present Organization and Staffing
5.        The L3B's Board of Directors is under the Chairmanship of the
Rinister of Agriculture, or his duly authorized representative; its members
comprise representatives of various ministries designated by the respective
ministries, representatives of the traders, producers and processers
designated by the Minister of Agriculture.
6.        The present organization of the LMB and its main departments may
be summiarized as follows:
(a) Management
(i) Board;
(ii) General Manager;
(iii) Internal Auditor; and
(iv) Secretarial;
(b)  Administration Department
(i) Finance;
(ii) Property and Communications;
(iii) Secretarial Services; and
(iv)  Branch Administration, Dire Dawa - Asmara;
(c) Production and Processing Department
(i)  Beef Cattle;
(ii)  Mutton and Sheep;
(iii) Poultry and Eggs;
(iv)  Meat Industry; and
(v)  Hides and Skins;
(d) Planning, Research and Information Department
(i) Planning and Research; and
(ii) Publication and Public Relations;
(e)  7arketing Department
(i) Internal Mlarketing;
(ii) External Marketing; and
(f) Projects Office
7.        The LMB is not a large organization - its present staff number
rather miore than 100. The General M1anager gives an impression of competence
an(d shows a good understanding of the tasks which would confront LMB in the



A';NNX 3
Page 3
execution of the Project. In particular, lie is aware that the management
resources at his disposal would have to be greatly strengthened in order to
cope with the very rapid expansion of staffing and activities which the
Project would entail. The organization and staffing which would be required
for the Project is discussed in further detail in paragraphs 17 to 22.
Present Activities
8.        The activities of LNrB fall into five main classes:
(a)  regulatory, including the inspection of hygiene standards at
export processing plants and the issue of export permits;
(b)  operational and training, including
(i)  the initial stages of nides and skins improvement
program, introducing the suspension drying of cattle
hides in order to raise the quality and price obtained.
Complementing this program^, LJB has established a
warehouse in Addis Ababa and buys from producers on
a graded basis and sells to export dealers;
(ii) the construction of two staging points on a stock
route; and
(iii) construction of a demonstration slaughterslab;
(c)  studies and surveys covering, for example, ways of increasing
the export of live sheep; rural slaughter facilities; poultry
consumption and production in the Addis Ababa area; Addis
Ababa livestock and meat market; liveweight, carcass yields
and prices paid in slaughiter facilities; local tax rates in
the Asmara area and their effect on livestock exporters and
meat processing plants;
(d)  project preparation - a Projects Office was established in
1970 to prepare for presentation to IBRD a number of projects
tentatively identified by the livestock sub-sector review
mission which visited Ethiopia in May 1970; the Project
presently under consideration is the first to be prepared by
this Office; and
(e)  equity investments in tihe Melgue Wondo slaughterhouse and
the Ethiopian MIeat Concentrate Company. The former is in
partnership with foreign interests who have contracted to
purchase all exportable production; LiB holds 40% of the
shares and is represented on the Board.
9.        None of the previous, or current activities of LNB have been on
a scale comparable to the country-wide operations envisaged under the Project.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Audit and Accounts
10.       The accounts staff and procedures of LMB are barely adequate for
its present level of activities and would require to be greatly strengthened
for the purposes of the Project.
11.       At present, LMB does not have a professionally qualified accounting
staff. A set of double entry books is maintained and trial balances are
extracted monthly. The annual accounts are prepared by the auditors. At the
time of the mission's visit in December, accounts for the year ended July 7,
1971 and the auditors' report thereon had been prepared in draft: trial
balances had been prepared for July and August. An annual budget is prepared
for expenditure, but not for revenue.
12.       There are weaknesses in internal control.  Firstly, receipts from
Customs in respect of hides and skins export duties are deposited in lump
sums in LMB's account without any accompanying statement. No routine,
methodical checks are made by LMB to ensure that all due revenue from this
source has been received. The mission made, however, a very rough check
with the Custom's published statistics for the year ending June 1971; this
showed that LMB had received broadly what would have been expected. Secondly,
the operation of a revolving fund for the purchase of hides and skins was
the subject of unfavorable comment by the auditors, who made recommendations
for an improved procedure which LMB proposes to implement.
14.       The Project accounts would be fully integrated with, and form a
part of, an improved and strengthened accounting system for LMB as a whole.
The system would, of course, be required to show, in accordance with sound
consistently applied principles, the application of credit funds and the
revenues and expenditures of the various components of the Project, so that
the financial results of the operations could be fairly assessed. While
the system of accounting could, in keeping with the operations themselves,
be relatively simple, the collection of cash at numerous, geographically
scattered locations and the related expenditures would call for a carefully
designed system of internal control and properly trained staff at all levels.
15.       For this purpose, it would be necessary to appoint a Financial
Officer with suitable professional qualifications and experience. It is
unlikely that such a man could be recruited in Ethiopia. In addition, LMB
should be encouraged to engage a firm of accountants to assist in the design
and introduction of an accounting system and the training of staff.
16.       LMB's accounts are audited by the Ethiopian firm of Mann Judd & Co.,
who are associated with the London firm of the same name. The Addis Ababa
office of Mann Judd & Co. comprises two resident expatriate partners, three
qualified accountants and ten trainees including three graduates. The firm
also act as auditors of the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
(AIDB) and other substantial organizations in Ethiopia. They would be
acceptable to IDA as independent auditors.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Organization and Staffing for the Project
17.       The organization of the Project within LMB would be based on the
following senior posts, which would be newly created:
(a) Project Manager, who would be responsible to the
General Manager for overall coordination;
(b) Head of the Market and Stockroute Department, who would be
responsible for the training of the marketing teams on-the-
job, and the operation of the livestock markets; the stock-
routes and marshalling yards; the mobile maintenance units;
and the cattle trucking units;
(c) Head of the Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Department,
who would be responsible for the operation of the slaughter
facilities and the hides and skins improvement program;
(d) Construction Officer, who would be responsible for the
planning and follow-up of construction works including
the preparation of detailed drawings, bills of quantities,
arrangements with contractors and the supervision of work;
(e) Export Marketing Specialist, who would investigate ways of
improving the export earnings from Ethiopian livestock
products, with particular reference to hides and skins,
and would prepare recommendations for suitable market
arrangements and, in particular, whether the LI4B should
itself enter the domestic or export trade; and
(f) Financial Officer, who would be responsible to the General
Manager for the design and operation of an effective
accounting system for the Project and for LMB as a whole.
A summary chart of the departmental organization is attached to this Annex
(Appendix 3-6).
18.       In view of the shortage of suitably trained and experienced
managers in Ethiopia, it would probably be necessary to recruit non-Ethiopian
for the above posts. The appointment of the Export Marketing Specialist
would be for three years and the other appointments for four years. Ethiopian
Deputies would be recruited with a view to eventually taking over these
posts, except in the case of the Construction Officer, whose post would
cease to exist when the non-Ethiopian left.
Markets and Stockroutes
19.       The markets would be operated by marketing teams from regional
headquarters under five Livestock Marketing Officers (LMOs) and eight
Assistant Livestock Marketing Officers (ALMOs). Fifty-two of the markets
would be operated by 13 mobile teams, each comprising: one market master/
auctioneer; one driver; one cash guard; one animal health assistant; one



ANNEX 3
Page 6
vaccinator; and sorters, clerks and watchmen as required. Each team would
be responsible for a group of markets forming a convenient circuit from the
regional headquarters. The remaining three markets (Addis Ababa, Nazret
and Mekale) would be operated by resident teams similarly staffed.
20.       The stockroutes would also be the responsibility of LMOs and
ALMOs who would ensure that stockroute permits and veterinary movement
permits were issued by the marketing teams to all cattle using the stock-
routes, on payment of the appropriate fee. The LMOs and ALMOs would also
ensure that permits were checked along the stockroutes so that grazing and
other facilities wqould be reserved for the exclusive use of fee-paying
trade stock, and that the assets would be properly maintained.
21.       The maintenance of the market and stockroute facilities would be
carried out under the LMOs by five mobile maintenance teams, based on the
regional headquarters. Each team would comprise three tradesmen and four
laborers with tools and equipment including a replacement borehole pump and
engines.
22.       The cattle trucking operations, which would involve five trucks
acquired over the first three years of the Project, would be the direct
responsibility of the Head of the Market and Stockroute Department.
Slaughter Facilities and Hides and Skins Improvement
23.       The Head of the Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Department
would control the 159 slaughter facilities and hide sheds through area
centers to be established in 14 principal towns.
24.       Each center would have a slaughter facility and hide shed team
which would comprise a superintendent, six technicians and a driver/mechanic.
The functions of the team and the responsibilities of the area superintendent
would be:
(a)  the direction and supervision of all LMB staff of the
Slaughterhouse Facilities and Hide Shed Department in
their area, including the maintenance of plant and
equipment (this would involve holding a small stock of
consumable stores); and
(b) demonstrating improved hide and skin preparation techniques
in the area.
25.       The slaughter facilities and hide sheds under the slaughter
facilities and hide shed teams would be manned as follows:
(a)  Model 1:  One hide shed worker who would flesh, and
suspension dry the hides flayed by the butchers;



ANNEX 3
Page 7
(b)  Model 2:  One technician responsible for day to day running
and insuring that sanitary conditions would be
maintained; two hide sheds workers would flesh and
suspension dry the hides flayed by the butchers;
two guards for the property and hides; and
(c)  Model 3:  Provides a full abattoir service including flaying
and butchering, the staff, under a senior technician,
would comprise: two slaughterers, four flayers, one
eviscerator, three butchers, three hide workers, one
offal worker, two property guards, and one driver
for meat delivery service in the town.
Administrative Coordination
26.       Implementation of the Project would require close coordination
between LMB and the various Ministries and Government departments concerned.
To a large extent, this would be achieved by the day to day contacts main-
tained by LMB's management. More formal arrangements would be required in
the case of the municipalities and the provision of veterinary services.
Therefore, the LMB would enter into agreements with:
(a) each municipality providing for, inter alia:
(i) LMB to be responsible for: the design, construction
by contract, operation, maintenance, supervision and
control of Project installations within municipal
boundaries, such a slaughter facilities, hides and
skins sheds, and livestock markets; and for the fixing
and collection of all charges and fees in connection
with these installations; and
(ii) the enforcement by the Municipalities, under their
existing legal authority, of the proper utilization
of these installations; and
(b)  the Veterinary Department of the Ministry of Agriculture,
providing for meat inspection services and all veterinary
services connected with markets, stockroutes and any other
Project facilities to remain the responsibility of the
Department, which would provide the necessary staff.
Future Role Outside the Project
27.       Government's policy regarding the future of UmB, and the role it
will play outside the Project, has not yet been defined.
28.       Although, to date, LMB has done a satisfactory job preparing
livestock project, it is presently being considered by Government whether
the work of project preparation, that is now carried out within 1MB, should
be transferred to the Planning Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
29.       The LNB's activities with regard to marketing may also develop.
This, however, will depend on the marketing arrangements recommended by the
proposed Export Marketing Specialist.
30.       LIMB's regulatory functions would continue as at present.  The
extent of other activities would, however, be governed by two factors:
(a) the very rapid growth which would result from implementation
of the Project would extent LMB's management resources and
make other developments difficult and risky; and
(b) LMB's revenues leave little if any margin for further
expansion, unless this were to be financed directly by
Government.



Appendix 3-1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock and Meat Board Order, 1964
ORDER No. 34 of 1964
AN ORDER TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISH-
MENT OF THE LIVESTOCK AID HEAT BOARD
CONQUERING LION OF THE TRIBE OF JUDAH
HAILE SELASSIE I
ELECT OF GOD, EMPEROR OF ETHIOPIA
WiHEREAS, it is known that the large livestock population of Our
Empire forms a valuable national resource; and
WHEREAS, in the interest of the economy of Our Empire, the quality
of livestock, livestock products and hides should be improved and their
production increased; and
IWHEREAS, it is necessary for these purposes to provide guidance and
assistance to producers, traders and processors, to facilitate and encourage
the establishment of requisite facilities and to provide regulations for
their efficient operation; and
WHEREAS, it is deemed that these purposes can best be achieved by
the creation of an organization possessed of such powers as shall be conferred
by law;
NOW, THEREFORE, in accordance with Article 27 of Our Revised Constitution,
and on the advice of the Council of MIinisters, We hereby order as follows:
1.   Short Title:
This Order may be cited as the "Livestock and Meat Board Order, 1964".



Appendix 3-1
Page 2
2.   Establishment of the Board:
Thiere is hereby created an independent body, to be known as the
'Livestock and Meat Board" (hereinafter referred to as the "Board")
which shall act through the Board of Directors and General Manager
as provided herein and in other relevant laws.
3.   Definitions:
W4hen used in this Order, unless the context shall require otherwise:
(1)  "by-product" shall mean everything of value produced from
the slaughter of livestock other than the meat, but shall
not include milk;
(2)  "hide" shall mean the outer covering of bovine and camels;
(3)  "livestock" shall mean bovine, sheep, goats, camels, horses,
donkeys, mules and similar animals;
(4)  "meat" shall mean the flesh of bovine, sheep, goats, camels,
poultry and similar animals produced for food;
(5) "poultry" shall mean domestic birds which serve as a source
of food;
(6) "processor" shall mean any person involved in the operation
of converting livestock, poultry and eggs, meat and by-products
into a saleable form;
(7) "producer" shall mean a farmer of livestock and poultry;
(8) "'skin" shall mean the outer covering of a sheep or goat; and
(9) "trader" shall mean a merchant in livestock, poultry, meat,
eggs and by-products.
4.   Objects and Purposes of the Board:
The Board shall have the following objectives and purposes:
(1) to encourage the production and marketing of healthy and high
quality livestock, poultry, meat, eggs and by-products;
(2) to collect and disseminate information relating to the
production, processing, transporting and marketing of livestock,
poultry, meat, eggs and by-products;
(3) to promote the establishment and supervision of improved
stockroutes,. watering points and marketing facilities;



Appendix 3-1
Page 3
(4) to stimulate research on any aspect of livestock and poultry
production, transporting, processing and marketing;
(5)  wnen requested, and in accordance with such request, to
assist in and facilitate the carrying out by the Veterinary
Services of the Government of their vaccination and related
services and to cooperate in the expansion and application
of veterinary standards and requirements; and
(6) to promote the sale of livestock, meat, poultry, eggs and
by-products by advertising at home and abroad and by
participating in international trade fairs.
5.   Responsibilities:
The Board shall, in accordance with relevant laws, be responsible
for:
(1) the establishment and enforcement of suclh policies and
programmes as are necessary for the attainment of the objects
and purposes stated hereunder;
(2) the establishment of such administrative organization as is
necessary and conducive to the proper execution and adminis-
tration of its policies and programmes;
(3) the preparation of its budget; and
(4) the discharging of such additional functions as may be vested
in it by law.
6.   Organization:
The Board shall be comprised of:
(1) Board of Directors:
(a) all of the powers of the Board shall be vested in a
Board of Directors;
(b) the Board shall be composed as follows:
A Chairnan, the Minister of Agriculture or his duly
authorized representative.
Members: one representative of eachi of the .Ministries
of Public ilealtu, Commerce and Industry, Finance and
National Community Development, designated by the
respective Ministers.



Appendix 3-1
Page 4
One representative of each of the traders, processors
and producers, designated by the Minister of Agriculture
after consultation with representative bodies of these
sections of the industry.
Tne representatives of the traders, processors and pro-
ducers shall serve for two (2) years and shall be eligible
for designation again.
(c) The Board shall make its own rules of procedure;
(2)  General Manager:  There shall be a General Manager appointed
by Us upon the recommendation of the Board of Directors for
such period as We shall determine. He shall be the Head
Executive of the Board and, subject to the general direction
of the Board of Directors, he shall direct the management and
operations of the Board. The General Manager may delegate
such of his functions, duties and authority to such persons
employed by the Board as he may deem appropriate for the
efficient management of the business of the Board; and
(3)  Staff:  The Board may employ officers and staff necessary for
the carrying out of its operation, subject to the Central
Personnel Agency Public Service Order (Order No. 23 of 1961,
as amended) and regulations issued thereunder.
7.   Annual Report:
The Board shall publish an Annual Report of its activities and the
progress that it has made in achieving the objectives and purposes
of this Order within three (3) months after the end of each year,
and shall submit a programme of work for the coming year within
three (3) months before the end of the year to the Ministry of
Agriculture.
8.   Regulations:
Our MIinister of Agriculture may upon the recommendation of the
Board, issue Regulations for the better carrying out of the provisions
hereof.
9.   Repeal:
Unless otherwise expressly provided in this Order, all Orders or
Regulations previously in force concerning matters provided for in
this Order, whether wirtten or customary are hereby repealed.



Appendix 3-1
Page 5
10. Effective Date;
This Order shall enter into force on the date of its publication
in the Negarit Gazeta.
Done at Addis Ababa this 14th day of 'March 1964.
TSEHAFE TAEZAZ AIKLILU HABTE WOLD
Primie Minister and hinister of Pen






Appendix 3-2
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock and Meat Board Proclamation, 1964
PROCLAMATION No. 212 of 1964
LIVESTOCK AND MEAT BOARD
PROCLAMATION
CONQUERING LION OF THE TRIBE OF JUDAH
HAILE SELLASSIE I
ELECT OF GOD, EMPEROR OF ETHIOPIA
WHEREAS, We have ordered the establishment of the Livestock and Meat
Board; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary that the said Board be conferred with such
powers as are necessary for the attainment of its object and purposes;
NOW, THEREFORE, in accordance with Article 34 and 88 of Our Revised
Constitution, We approve the resolutions of Our Senate and Chamber of Deputies
and We hereby proclaim as follows:
1.   Short Title:
This Proclamation may be cited as the "Livestock and Meat Board
Proclamation, 1964".
2.   Definitions:
Where used in this Proclamation, unless the context shall require
otherwise:
(1) "Board" shall mean the Livestock and Meat Board;
(2) "by-product" shall mean everything of value produced from
the slaughter of livestock other than the meat, but shall
not include milk;



Appendix 3-2
Page 2
(3) "fee" shall mean a charge fixed in accordance with the
provisions of the present Proclamation;
(4) "hide" shall mean the outer covering of Bovine and Camels;
(5) "livestock" shall mean bovine, sheep, goats, camels, horses,
donkeys, mules and similar animals;
(6) "meat" shall mean the flesh of bovine, sheep, goats, camels,
poultry and similar animals produced for food;
(7) "poultry" shall mean domestic birds which serve as sources
of food;
(8) "processor" shall mean any person involved in the operation
of converting livestock, poultry and eggs, meat and by-products
into a saleable form;
(9) "producer" shall mean a farmer of livestock and poultry;
(10) "skin" shall mean the outer covering of a sheep or goat;
(11) "trader" shall mean a merchant in livestock, poultry, meat,
eggs and by-products.
3.   Power of the Board:
The Board shall have and exercise such power to control and regulate
the production, use, possession, movement, sale, import and export
of all livestock, poultry, meat, eggs and by-products as may be
necessary to carry out its objective and purposes, including and
without limitation the power:
(1) to construct, own, lease and operate farms, warehouses,
markets, market places, compounds and stock ponds, in places
where such facilities are required but have not been provided
through initiative of private enterprise and to encourage
the establishment in such places of adequate processing
facilities;
(2) to borrow, lend, mortgage, pledge and dispose of moveable
and immoveable property;
(3) to designate and direct livestock and poultry markets.:
(4) when requested and in accordance with such request by the
Veterinary Services, to organize and operate the quarantine
stations for use in the export and import of livestock,
poultry, meat, eggs and by-products;



Appendix 3-2
Page 3
(5)  to demarcate and establish livestock routes with watering
points and reserved grazing area to enable livestock to
be moved from primary markets to processing facilities and
central transportation points, in the best possible
condition;
(6)  to introduce measures designed to expand and improve the
livestock, poultry, meat, and egg industries generally, and
in particular, but without limitation, to recommend to the
Government to protect producers and processors from excessive
taxation or other impositions which tend to stifle and impede
the expansion of trade in these commodities;
(7)  to propose to the Government to fix livestock, poultry, meat,
eggs and by-product floor prices when considered necessary
for the national economy;
(8)  to draw up and establish reliable weighing procedures and
grade specifications for livestock, poultry, meat, eggs and
by-products and enforce the same;
(9)  to fix, impose and collect fees on all livestock, meat,
poultry, eggs and by-products processed in or exported from
Ethiopia; provided, however that in no event shall such
fees exceed the following rates;
Hides                $0.20 per hide
Skins                 0.08 per skin
Cattle          (Live                 1.50 per head
Cattle          (Slaughtered          1.50  "
Sheep and       (Live                 0.40  "
Goats           (Slaughtered          0.40  "   "
Camels          (                     1.50  "   "
Horses          (                     0.40
Mules           (
Donkeys         (
Poultry         (Live                 0.02
(Slaughtered          0.02  "
Eggs                                  0.01 per dozen
(10) to fix, impose and collect fees on all livestock and poultry
using facilities of any sort provided by the Board, whether
livestock and poultry markets, water supply centers, stock-
routes and ponds, quarantine station, slaughterhouses and
other processing facilities; provided, however, that such
fees shall be fixed upon a uniform basis and shall reflect
as nearly as possible, the cost and value of the services
and the facilities being provided to the users thereof,
having due regard to the need to expand and finance the
expansion, maintenance and improvement of such services
and facilities; and



Appendix 3-2
Page 4
(11)  generally take such measures and recommend such regulations
as shall seem appropriate to realize the purposes of the
present Proclamation.
4.   Fund:
(1) There shall be established a fund which shall consist of:
(a) all monies collected from fees charged on all livestock,
poultry, meat, eggs and by-products;
(b) contributions or donations as may from time to time be
made to the fund; and
(c) any subsidy provided by the Government.
(2)  Such fund shall be lodged with the National Bank of Ethiopia
in a separate deposit account in the name of the Board, which
shall be responsible for the expenditure of the fund to effect
the objects and purposes of this Proclamation in accordance
with an Annual Budget.
(3)  The Board shall keep an account of receipt and disbursement;
and shall render such statements of revenue and expenditure
as Our Auditor General may require.
(4)  Within three (3) months after the expiration of each year, the
Board shall prepare a statement of receipts and disbursements
during the previous year. Every such statement shall be
subject to audit and shall be published in the Negarit Gazeta.
5.   Regulations:
Our Minister of Agriculture may, upon the recommendation of the
Board, issue Regulations for the better carrying out of the
provisions hereof.
6.   Penalty:
Any person who violates the provisions of this Proclamation or
of any Regulations issued in accordance with it, shall be punished
in accordance with the provisions of the Ethiopian Penal Code of
1957.
7.   Repeal:
Unless otherwise expressly provided in this Proclamation, all
Proclamations, Decrees or Regulations previously in force concerning
matters provided for in this Proclamation, whether written or customary,
are hereby repealed.



Appendix 3-2
Page 5
8.   Effective Date:
This Proclamation shall enter into force on the date of its
publication in the Negarit Gazeta.
Done at Addis Ababa this 14th day of March, 1964.
TSEHAFE TAEZAZ AKLILU HABTE WOLD
Prime Minister and Minister of Pen






0
CD                                                                                                       ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock and Meat Board
Actual and Projected Balance Sheets as of July 7, 1971-1983
(Eth$ '000)
Actual------------------------------rojected ----------------------------
Categor                  ~~~~1971      1972       1973        1974       1975       1976        1977        1978       1979        1980        1981       1982        1983
Category-year--- - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - --y-r-                               -- - - - -- -   - - -  -- - - - - -- - -    - - -- - -   - -
ASSETS
Fixed Assets at Cost
IDA Project - Land, Buildings and Equipment. -                    -                   1,325      3,469       6,159      7,891       7,891       7,891      7,891       7,891      7,891       7,891
- Motor Vehicles..-........-                                              491         954      1,379      1,550       1,550       1,405      1,260       1,187       1,187      1,187
Other - Land, Buildiyngs and Equipment .... 307                    550        800       850         900        950       1,000      1,050       1,100       1,150      1,200       1,250       1,300
- Motor Vehicles .........I... 218                         200         200       200         200        200         200        200         200         200        200         200         200
Total Fixed Assets at Cost ...... 525                    750      J1J0Q9    2.866       5,523       8,688     1064        1069        1059       10,50       10.478      10.528     10.578
Less:  Depreciation -IDA Project ...... -                         -           -         164         478        962       1,497      1,952       2,233      2,485       2,794       3,176      3,558
-Other. ........ 112                      145         173       213        255         300        348         398         450        500         550         600         650
Total Net Fixed Assets........ 413                       605         827    249         4.70        742         ,96        87913                     1        713 
-   -       ,          __~~~~~~~90 7.2       8.964__11  5_6                                  _3                    6-11
Loan to Ministry of Interior ..........                  20           16         12          8          4        -           -           -          -           -           -          -
Inivestments................... 253                                  253        253       253         253        253         253         253        253         253         253        253         253
Current Assets
Invenitories .................                          4           10         10       100         100        100         100        100         100         100        100         100         100
Debtors anid Prepayments ...........                   60           64         68        72          76         80          80          80         80          80          80         80          80
Treasury Bills................ 500                                 500        500       500         500        500         500         500        500         500        500         500         500
Cash.....................1.221                                 1L07           900       459          80       (1 30)       165      1,8         1_,325      1.524      1~8         2j519       3.054
Total Current Assets.1.......  l785                    1 646      1 478      1131         756          550        845      1           26,1005    2 704       2.665       3,199      3.734
Total Assets.............2,471                         2,520       2 570    3_881       5.803       8,229      9 894      1042        10,171      9., 973    10.052      10.204     10.357
LTABITLTIES AND EQUITY
Developaient Loan19494J
Principal ...............   ...                             -                 -       2, 07 7     5,002-    8,409       10,544     10,544      10,155       9,7 35      9,282      8,793       8,264
Current Liabilities..............                        20           20         20         20         20          20          20         20          20          20         20          20          20
Income and Expenditure Account
TDA Project.................. -                                    -          -        (8i6)   (1,869)    (2,900)   (3,420)    (2,902)    (2,954)    (2,782)    (2,300)    (1,709)    (1,077)
Otlier ...... ............... .241                              210         2,550   21 6OO        2,650        2~  2,70     5        2 Bo           5       3.000       3,5        3,0         3. 150
Total Lipbilities and Equity .. . .... 2 47157                               3,881      5,803       8,229       984       10,462      10,171       9,9       i0,052..   !01,204~   10,357
ij interest of 3/14 of 1% for the fireet five years and 8% thiereafter.



ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESrOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock and Ueat Board
Projected Profit and Loss Accounts  1974 - 1983
(Eth$ 000)
1974           1975            1976            1977            1978           1979            1980            1981            1982            1983
REVENUES
Market and Stockroute Component
Stockroutes .49                                                      190             433             767             998          1,084           1,168           1,201           1,217           1,217
Trucking .,                                 ,..  ,,.47                160            251             284             284             170              57                            _               -
Markets .                                             221             752          1,486           2 236           22781         .2905            3.012           3.093           3.135           3.135
Sub-total .317                                       1.102          2.170           3.287           4.063          4.159           4.237           4.294           4 352           4.352
Slaughter Facilities and Hide Sheds .23                                 197            531             898           1.129          1_186           1.246           1 300           1.335           1.350
Total Revenue .340                                     299           ,7             4.185             192           5,345          S 483           5 594           5      87702
DIRECT COSTS
Markec and Stockroute Component
Stockroutes. .,   ,,                                  46             152             304             428            465             468             470             473             473             473
Trucking..............................    31                           92            138             153             153              92              31            -
Markets ............... I                              66             186            324             464            471             471             471             471             471             471
Technical and Administrative Services j/ .    413                     767          1,231           1,539           1,522          1,522           1,522           1,522           1,522           1,522
25% of Expatriate Salaries ..          ,,,,,           26              26             26              26            -               -                       -               -               -
Depreciation: Motor Vehicles (20%).         ,          64            122             180             195            195             166             137             122             122             122
Buildings and Equipment (5%) ...   48                 118            209             268             268             268             268             268            268              268
Sub-total.           ,      , ,        694          1,461           2412            3               3.074          2.987           2.899           2,856           2.856           2.856
Slaughter and Hide Shed Component
Slaughter Facilities and Hide Sheds  2/ .              12             118            327             566             715            749             779             805             825             839
Technical end Administrative Services  2/             181            387             526             554             514            526             529             380             380             380
25% of Expatriate Salaries .26                                        26              26              26                            -               -                       -
Depreciation:  Mitr Vahielea (20%) .27                               62              89             108            108             108             108             108             108             108
Buildings and Equipment (5%)  ,,18                    5              99             127             127             127            127             127             127             127
Sub-total .264                                         648          1.067           1.3811            16 510                       1.543           1.420           1.440           1.454
Total Direct Costs .                   958          2_109           3,479           4.454           4.538          4.497           4,442           4.276           4,296           4.310
GROSS MARCIN
Markets and StcckLootes .(377)                                         (359)           (242)           214             989           1,172           1,338          1,438           1,496           1,496
Slaughter Facilitles and Hide Sheds .(241)                             (45)           (536)           (483)           (335)           (324)           (297)          (120)           (105)           (194)
Total Gross Margin .(618)                             (810)           (778)          (269)            654             848           1.041          1,318           1,391           1.392
HEAD0UARTERS COSTS
257. of Expatriate Salaries. ..  108                                    134             121             98             -               -               -               -               -
Depreciation:  Motor Vehicles (207) .           .         7               7               7               7              7               7               7               7               7               7
Other SalAries, Operating Cost .75                                       75              75             75              50              50              50              50              50              50
Interest on Development Loan.                             8              27              50             71              79             843             812             779             743             703
Total Headquarters Costs .             198             243             253            251             136             900             869             836             800             760
PROJECT OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS)                        *     (21)                                       (520)            518             (52)            172             482             591             632
CUMULATIVE PROFIT (LOSS)    ,,,,.       ,,.  ,,,....                  (1.869)         (2.900)         (3,420)        (2.902)         (2.954)         (2782)          (2.300)         (1,709)         (1.077)
1   The profits from LMi's other operations are relatively small.  The results are taken into account
in the balance sheets but not set out in detail here.  They will, of course, be shown in LlB's actual profit
and loss accounts along with the above.
2/  'I'he incremental operating costs shown at Annex 13 include provisions for the replacement of motor
vehicles.  These amounts, to8ether with contingency allowances, have been excluded from  the operating
costs charged above.



0
'1                                                                                                   ETHIOPIA
C
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock and Meat Board
Sources and Applications of Funds 1972 - 1983
(Eth$'000)
1972       1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        1982        1983
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Operating Profits (Losses) - IDA Project ........         -           -          (816)    (1,053)    (1,031)         (520)        518         (52)        172         482         591         632
- Other .49                               50          50         50          50          50          50          50          50          50          50          50
Add:Depreciation - IDA Project .-    -                                            164         364         584         705         705         676         647         632         632         632
- Other ......................          33          28          40          42          45          48          50          52          50          50          50          50
Internal Cash Generation - Project.-                             -          (652)       (689)       (447)        185       1,223         624         819       1,114       1,223       1,264
- Other .82                            78          90          92          95          98         100         202         100         100         100         100
Development Loan
- for Fixed Assets  ......      .....................               -        1,816       2,607       3,115       1,903         -           -           -           -           -           -
- for other Development Costs ....       .............             -            261        318         292         232
Government Grant - 75% of Expatriate Salaries ...         -           -           479         557        518         449
Reduction of Cash Balance .....       ..................  149         172         441         379         210               -                -            -           -
Total Sources of Funds ..................        231         250       2,435   3,264           3,783       2,867       1.323         826         919       1,214                    1B
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Fixed Assets  - IDA Project ....................          -           -        1,816       2,607       3,115       1,903           -                     -           -                  -    -
- Other ..........................         225      250             50         50          50          50          50           50          50         50           50          50
- Replacements ........          ..        -           -           -           50         100         170         250         250         250         250         250         250
Loan - Repayment of Principal ....       ..............   -           -           -         -           -            -             -         389         420         453         489          529
75% of Expatriate Salaries .....      ................    -           -           479        557         518         449-                     -           -           -           -           -
Increase in Inventories ............                        6         -            90
Increase in Inventories.-                                          -          - --                     295       1.023         137         199         461         534         535
Increase in Cash Balance .        ......................              -         -           -           -                 -                                               
Total Applications of Funds ..         .        231         250       2,435       3,264       3,783       2,867       1.323         826         919       1.21        ;           1.364.
CASH BALANCE (1971   1,221) ...........    1,072            900         459 80L (13)                      165           1.8 8      1,325      1,524       1.985       2,519   3L.054






'o,                                                                                                                                     ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LMB ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of Directors
Genera Manager         l
Procetsng                                                  a~~~~~~~~~~~~Srcndutr            Slaugh  athouss         lorn  tbonfjCe
an S artrck    ins                        Hie an  Skinsntucio 
Note. In addition to the Drpaitmrnts shown undei the hrading "IDA Project Admniiistration", rho
Prnlect wnuld alto presidetone Financial Officer and Accounting Cnnroltant Servicesto
the Accounts Depanrtment, and an Export Maiketing Specialist In tht Manrkeing Departmrntr
pl.tt-                                                                                          A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~55i O,yOOlt 






ANNE: 4
'Table 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPENT PROJECT
Model I - Primary Market
Investment Costs
(Eth$,)
No. of
INVESTM5NTS                            Unit       Units     Unit Cost        Year-l       Total Cost
Yards
Cattle Pens .................   set            1          1,990          1,990           1,990
Sheep and Goat Pens .... ....   set            1            520             520            520
Crush and Spray Race .......... .. set.        1          1,300          1,300           1,300
Loading Ramp            ......    no         0.1            300              30             30
3ub-total               3°.8.0                                                       3,840
BuildinRs
e  Eting and Office ........... no          1          1,960          1,960           1,960
Watchnan's House ......... ...... no           ½             i400           200            200
Fodder Shed       ..........        no         i             600            300            300
Sub-total ........... 1.....60                                                       2,460
Water
Wel  (Lined)  1/ .............. no             it            300            150            150
Pump and Engine   .      .......... set                   4 4 ,000        2,000          2,000
Piping  ...................... m             150               5            750            750
Storage Tanks (12,000
Gallons)  .............. I...... no           ½          2,000           1,000          1,000
Troughs ...............   .... no              ½.            700            350            350
Sub-total 4..o .......                                                4l250          41250
labor
For Construction  2/  ..........                                          3,160          3,160
Movable Assets
Cattle Scales      .................. no       1          1,100           1,100          1,100
Equipnent  2/ .................. . set         1             380            380             380
Sub-total ............                                               1,1480          1,1480
Veterinary Drugs - For
Resale
Start-up (3-mionth Inventory) hi. herd.    500                 3          1,500          1,500
Total         .....     ..                                           16,690         16,690
Contingencies
Pbysioal 10..          .........                                          1.670           1,670
Price 5%                                                                     830            830
Total Investament Costs                                              19,190         19,190
1/  Includes labor at Eth$10/m.
T/ hirty per cent of fixed assets, not including well digging.
3i Includes safe, cattle control equipment and furniture.
v Based on 2,000 doses sold per year per primary market.
February 25, 1972



ANNEX  4
Table 2
KMXOPIA
S5COND IIVESTOCK DEVXWPMENT PROJECT
Adel I - Primary Market
Reverne and Operating Costs
(Etb$) 
----------------------------Year--------------------------------
Category                        1           2            3           4             5            6-20
REVIUE
Throughputs 1/
Cattle (o) ..........................         5,100     10,300       10,860       11,340       Il,900       12,480
Cheep and G ,ts (No) ................  .    15,300      30,510       32,080       33,610       35,290       37,130
Gamels (ob)-       .        .........           300         600          630          670          700          730
Fees
Cattle 4 Eth$2.00/Head  ....*a .........    10,200      20,600       21,720       22,680       23c000       24,960
Sheep and Goats L Etb$0.30/Head  6......    4,00          9,150       9,620       10,080       10,590       11,140
Camels @ Eth$2.00/Head ......    .........      600       1,200       1,260        1.340        1,1400       I1,460
Sub-total .....................   15,400         30,950       32,600       34,100       35,790       37,560
urugs ..                                        6., 6                    6,ooo 66000 6,ooo
Total Revenue ......... ........    21,400       36,950       38.600       40,100        1,790       43560
OPERATING COSTS
Veterinary Drugs for Resale ............        6,000       6,000        6,000        6,ooc        6,ooo        6,ooo
Replacements .......     .     .     . .         -            350          350          350          350          350
Fuel and Maintenance . ..................         610         610          610          610          610          610
Stationery .     , , ..            .........      650         650          650          650          650          650
Labor    .       .....................                .       750          750         750          750           750
Sub-total.         .     .    .       8,010        ,3          8,360        8,           8,360        8,360
Contingencies:  Physical 10% ...........          201         236          236          236          236
Total Operating Coste .........       8,211       8,596        8,596        8,5,6        8  596
1/ Throughput increases by approximately 5% per year from year-3 to year-6.
2/ Jijiga area only, but spread over all markets for the purpose of constructing
this model.
February 25. 1972



ANNEX 4
Table 3
ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIvESTOCK DEVEIDPHENT PROJECT
Mode} II - Terminal Market
Investment Costs
(Eth$)
No. of
INVESTMENTS                      Unit     Units      Unit Cost      Year-1      Total Cost
Yards
Perimeter Fence  ............ m         800           1           800            800
Perimeter Gates     o....*.               2        150           300            300
Cattle Pens .     .......     set         1       2,800         2,800          2,800
Sheep & Goat Pens .0*  ......  set        1         980           980            980
Loading Ramp                  no          1         300           300            300
13Sub-total  ota.....l0.00,                                5,180          5,180
Buildings
Sale Ring & Office .........  no          1       2,870         2,870          2,870
Watchman's House ........... no            1        400           400            400
Fodder Shed  ... * ...........  no         1        600           600            600
latrines ...... ,,.,...     no          4         150           600            600
Sub-total ......                                           4,470          4,470
Water
Piping (From Mmnicipal
Supply) ................... m           200          5         1,000          1,000
Electric Booster Pump ...... no           1         200           200            200
Storage Tank    ...............  no        1      2,000         2,000          2,000
Troughs ............ .o*..*..   no         2        700         l,L400         1100
Sub-total          t4.600                                                 4.600
Services
Electric Security Lighting..               1        600           600            600
labor
For Construction .4.........                                    4,360    4, 360
Other Assets
Cattle Scales ..............  no           1      6,740         6,740          6,740
Equipment  1/ ......... .......   set      1        950            950           950
Sub-total .............                                    7,690          7,690
Total       ., ........,                                   26,900        26,900
Contingencies
Physical 10% ...2,690                                                          2,690
Price 5%  ....... .......                                        1,350         1,350
Total Investment Costs.                                   30,940         30 940
1/ Includes loud-hailer, safe, cattle control equipment and furniture.
February 25, 1972



ANNEX b
Table4
ETHIOPIA
SESOND LIVESTOCK DEVCLOPMBNT PROJSCT
Model II - Terminal Yarket
Revenue and 0 eatine Costs
(Nth$)
--------- ------------- ---- -Year ---------------- -------- ------
Category                                                            4 Z  3  4   5           6-20
REMMTJS
T-hroughputs 1/
5attle 5b) ............... ................   23,600    47,290      49,630      52,140      54,760      57,470
Sheep and Goats (No) .....................    77,900  155,860      16j,66o  171,830        180,480     189,hao
Camel (No) 2/ ..........................       400         790         830         870         910         960
Fees
Cattle 9  Eth$2.00/Head ................   47,200      94,580       99,260     104,z80     109,520     114,940
Sheep and Goats ' Eth,$0.30/Head .......   2j,4o00 o    46,760      49,100      51,550      54, 140     56,820
Calnels 9 Eth$2.00/Head .............. ...    800       1,580        1,660      1,740        1           1,920
Lotal Rennuem.* ...............    7124,00     142,920    150,020       157,570     165,480     173,680
OPERATING COSTS
Replacemwrts ............................ .        _85                   850         850         850         850
Utilities and 1aintenance .............. ..    5,200       5,200       5,200       5,200       5,200       5,200
stationery ..........................    1,000            1,000        1,000       1,000       L, oo       ±1,000
Labor ........ ............. ..1,500                                   1,500       1 1,50.0    1,500
Sub-total .       ......................    7,700  8,550     8,550       8,50         8,550       8,550
Physical Contingencies:  Ph7yical 10% ....      770         855         855         855          855         855
Total operatmg Costs ...........    8.470        9,405       9.105       9,105        9,Lo5 90505
Jv Throughput increaJe by approximately 5% per year from year-3 to year-6.
2/  Jijiga area onLy, btnt spread over all narlata for the purpose of construeting
this nodel.
F-bruary 25, 1972



ANNEX 4
gteckrnates And w*rbalO±os Yards  2
Iovet.snt Co.ts
No. of                                    ------------Yea,r--------- ----
INVESTMENT                                             unit               Unit.              Unit Coat,              1T.tota  Cant
Land Purchase      ................                  0.6 ha               28                 1,40                                  8.4.            8.4.          22.1.               39.2
Clearing en Routes  ..............                   km                  820                    6?                 3-7            32.9             7.0           11.3                54.9
1.a                                                                    .2015                                      -                             1.0-                                  80
FenCing (and Gates) .............                 Ia                  71          ,a                1          1.6.U40        186.2           9 52.0          165.07.0
Stalls and Yards (sand Gates) .........              pectimns            8                19,170                                 -            115.0                               115.0
Sub-tntal ..............                                                                              1iR016.0                        385.0           165.286.
ff'lns,latrine and St r.......... Sato                          31                    515                n.8             i6. o           22,1           19.1                 6.
offic..  LabostorY and Store.........              Sest                 1                  8,0oo                                 -              8.0             -                     .
Drove? and Firs Shelter...        .......            Sato             104                    330                 4.9             8.2           10. 6           10.6                3-. 3
redde'r Shed .no......  :,:....... .                                    18                   600L.                              _. 6.                          9.6                 16.4
SoR-total ..............16.?                                                                                           27.8            44.             3.3                026.0
Hadin -ailities
. ..........sets                                                1                  i,600                 -              -1.6                            -.                  13.6
Sta  Rc adCrash (cattle).nets.27                                                      1,600                12.8              .             2880o.
Lorr  RapS .................. no                                       20                    300                 0.9             1.8            1.8             1.5                 6.0
82J1 Raepe................... no                                                           1,600                 1.6            i.6             1.8             1.6                  .
Sob-tot.1..............                                                                                 15.3           13.0            17,8            11.1                0.
Zeholee and Ca.ning..............                   s                   2?                 181000               141.o.         108.0           1446.0           9,0.0              1,o6.0
wea is  Hand Dog) ............... no                                    13                    300                -1.8                            0.9             1.2                 3.9
Stock -O5d . ................. no                                       50                12,000                56.0           156.0          228.0           132.0                610.0
Ungine, Pup~ and Shed ............                 Set                 1.0                 4,000                32.0           4.8.0           446.0           36.0               i60.0o
!seole(12,000 *.I.) ........... no4                                                  2,000                16.o            24.0            24.0           18.0                 82.0
Pipioc. and Fittings    .............a                             10,00                       5                12.5            12.5           15.0            10.0                50.0
Tanaghi.no.................. U                                          95                   700                12.6            18.2            19.6            16.0                61.1
Sat-t.tal                                                                                              301.1............  6.          455301.2                          1.446.3
~8F.W n  Seosa my Lighti eg.no..........3,500                                                                    --                              1.5             -1.0
Telephone Consactlon FeeS........... no                                                      200                 --0.2                                           -02.2
Sub-total I........I-....                                                                                                               1.7             -1.7
Lao   2/..-                                                                                    -                 2a3.1           178.6           277.2           155.0               753.9
Movable Aonsets
Radio 71-en asne.no.......1.....2,970                                                                            --                              3.0            -3.0
Laborace  Wqip9usnt .s............                   t                   1                 2,000                 --2.0                                           -2.0
Weighing Scales.........   .....                   no                    1                  1,100--                                              1.1             -1.0
Fodder Corr.no........1..........,000                                                                            --                              0.0             -                   1.0
Sreay Eqoisment Fixed.no..1..1,.00....-..1.0o-                                                                                                                                       1.0D
Svray Equiopsent Hand.............   no                                 26                   350                 2.8             2.1             2.5             1.7                 9.1
Ca-te..................... n                                            2                    200                 --0.6                                           -                   0.1.
For,ttore. Strong en, CleariAg
Rsiouiaset ..................                     Sets               105                    190                 2.7             8.3             6.6             6.6                0.0
Sob-total..............                                                                                  5.5             6.2.          17.6             8.i                 7
... S- Stat-e............I..                 1000 head           100                    100               10.0             ---10.0
Total......I -........                                                                                 609.6           821.6        10234.6            713.41,0-
C-ti~~~~~~~~~,g-i   . ~~~~~~~~~~~63.9                                                                 82.2           123.5            71.3               34.0.9
Prose..I.............32.0                                                                                                61.1            61.7            35.7               170.5
Total Imesetnent C- Sn  ....t ....                                                                                     944.9         1,4.19.7          820.4.            3,920.3
2/Caqprteen ths fetlesig tonAlities phaned en folos.,                    erl       '"-          --          ,-
13 Stock staging pests wi.th Well Water..-........                             6           3          1.
ii Steak Staging Peste Withat Water ............                               -           3         12
26 Granlng Naservno vith Spray Sacs Crush and Hosel                            6           7          5
50 Oranlng Rsserrnn With Stank Pond............7                              13          19         11
1IMorekIliog Yard at Dire Dana .............-                                 -                      -
1R.71ahlay loading Reaps with Yards.1.........1..                  I                      1I
20 Lorry Lading Sne ...............s....3                                      6           6          5
~/Far tpe 28 stock ntagg poetS.
-/ At 3014 af Inesteent east otf fixed aSsets.
-r.rar  95  1972



I
ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'0
Stockroutes and Marshalling Yards
Revenue
(Eth$ '000)
1               2               3               4               5               6               7              8           9-20
STOCKROUTES
Number of Livestock Entering Stockroutes
Cattle l/ ........... .................   23,800            91.800         198,200         324,400         397,400         417,900         435,600        449,200      456,000
Sheep an4 Coats 2/ ......    .............   20,200         77,800        271,100          584,400         762,200         797,400         835,000        870,400      888,900
Camels 3/ ............................        -               -              7,200          14,400          29,400          30,900          32,700         34,200       34,800
Stockroute Fees
Cattle            @ Eth$ 2.00/head          47.6            183.6           396.4           648.8           794.8           835.8           871.2          898.4        912.0
Sheep and Goats  @ Eth$ 0.50/6 head           1....           6.5            22.6            48.7            63.5            66.4            69.6           72.5         74.1
Camels            @ Eth$ 2.00/head  _. . -.                   -              14.4            28.8            58.8            61.8            65.4           68.4         69.6
Sub-total                              J9W             190.1           433.4            726.3          917.1            964.0         1.006.2        1.039.3  1. 055.7
MARSHALLING YARDS
Number of Livestock EnterinR Marshalling
Yards
Cattle  * ---...                                              ..-             -              6,800          13,600          20,500          27,300         27,300   27,300
Sheep and Goats .......    ................    -              -               -             75,000         150,000         225,000         300,000        300,000      300,000
Camels ...                                    -               -               -              3,500           7,000          10,000          14,000         14,000       14,000
Marshalling Yard Fees Received by LMB
Cattle            @ Eth$ 1.00/head  -         -               -               -               6.8            13.6            20.5             27.3          27.3         27.3
Sheep and Goats  @ Eth$ 0.40/head .....    -                  -               -              30.0            60.0            90.0           120.0          120.0        120.0
Camels            @ Eth$ 1.00/head   .                        -               _               3.5             7.0            10.0            14.0           14.0         14.0
Sub-total                                -                -               _              40.3            80.6           120.5           161.3          161.3        161.3
TOTAL REVENUE                                        49.3            190.1          433.4            766.6           997.7         1.084.5         1.167.5        1.200.6 1.217.0
1/  Estimated at 76% of all sales at Primary Markets.
2/ Estimated as 42% of all sales at Jijiga Area Primary Markets and 80% of all other Primary Markets.
3/ Estimated as 100% of all sales at Primary Markets.
0'51



ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'.3
Stockroutes and Marshalling Yards
r.3                                                                                    Operating Costs
(Eths '000)
Unit Cost     ------------------------------------------- Year -----------------------
CategorY                           Unit         Eth$            1            2           3            4             5             6           7            8-20
Staff
Pump Attendants ....... ............   Man-Years    2,550          20.4         51.0        79.1        102.0          102.0         102.0       102.0         102.0
Attendants/Watchmen ...... .........    o    "        970           6.8         19.4        46.6         63.1          63.1           63.1        63.1          63.1
Clerk Grade 1 .....................          "      4,900           -            -           4.9          4.9           4.9            4.9         4.9           4.9
Clerk Grade 2 (Check Points)   ......               4,130           4.1         12.4        20.6         20.6           20.6          20.6        20.6          20.6
Vaccinators ......... ..............                2,800           -            -           5.6          5.6            5.6           5.6         5.6            5.6
Labor ..............................         "        750           -            -           3.0          3.0            3.0           3.0         3.0            3.0
Sub-total                                                     31.3          82.8       159.8        199.2         199.2          199.2       199.2         199.2
Operating
Maintenance of assets 1/ ..........     -             -             -           24.3        56.0        103.5          130.3         130.3       130.3          130.3
Replacements 2/ ........ ...........                                -            3.8         9.2         15.4           19.8          19.8        19.8           19.8
Fuel and Electricity / ...........      -    -        -             2.4          6.0        12.7         15.4           15.4          15.4        15.4           15.4
Office, Stationery, Cleaning
Materials  etc ...................    -   -         -             3.2          8.0         13.0        16.6           16.6          16.6        16.6           16.6
Acaricides 4/ ......................    -   -         -             4.8         13.6         28.8        39.1           41.1          43.8        46.3           48.3
Sub-total                                                      10.4         55.7       116.7        190.0          223.2         225.9       228.4          230.4
Total                                                          41.7        138.5       276.5        389.2          422.4         425.1       427.6          429.6
Contingency:  Physical 10%                                              4.2         13.9         27.7        38.9           42.2           42.5       42.8           43.0
Total Operating Costs                                          45.9        152.4       304.2        428.1          464.6         467.6       470.4          472.6
1/  At 5% of investment cost (not including labor).
2/  Engines and pumps, and moveable assets only, at 10% per annum.
3/  Stockroute boreholes and wells @ Eth$300/yr, Marshalling Yards Eth$3,200 for water, and Eth$500 electricity.
41  At Eth$0.10/head of cattle entering the stockroutes and also on Marshalling Yard exports.



ANNEX b
ETHOFIA
SI1oDD LIVESTOCK D3VNDPM     PROJCT_
Mrket aftn Stoekr ote Departmet - Techineal and Atainistrative Services
Investaent Costs
No. of  Unit --------- Year  -- -               Total
INVEn:TMETiTS                          Unit Units   Cost    1      2      3     4           Cost
Headouarters and Maintenance                       (Eth$)
Units
4-';eel Drive vehicle ......... no      1    16,000  16.0   -      -      -            16.0
6 Ton Lorry .................. no       1    34,000  34.0   -      -      -            3L.0
Office Furniture & Equipsient.. set    1    10,510  10.5  -        -      -            10.5
Diesel ingine & Famo .......... set    5      4,000   4.0   4.0   4.o   8.O            20.0
Tools & Eouipment ............ set    5       2,085   2.1   2.1   2.1   4.2            1C.5
&adio Telephone (fixed) ....... set    1      2,970   3.0   -      -      -             3.0
Sub-total*-..............                      69.6   6.1   6.1  12.2           9l.O
Salery - Head of Stockroute
F, Market Department ........ no     1    90,000  90.0  90.0  90.0  90.0           360.0
Marketing Teams
'lehicles
4-Wheei Drive Van ............. no    18    14,000  46.o  70.0  74.0  42.0            232.0
4-Wheel Drive Truck ........... no     8    25,ooo  50.C  50.0  75.0  25.0            200.0
6 Ton Lorry ..........-.--  no          1    34,000   -      -    34L7    -     ,4.°
Trailer ........ ...no                 8      2,200   4.4   4.4   6.6   2.2            17.6
Sub-total   ...............                   l0    120 .4 189.6  69.2         483.6
General Eeui pment
Safes (fitted to vehicles)2/..no       8        330    0.3  0.7   1.   (0.3             2.3
Typewriters   ..... ......... no       7        770    0.8  1.5   2.3   0.8            5 .1
Hand calculators- ............ no    16         500    2.0  2.0   2.0   2.0            8.o
Tentage & Carnping  quipmentY' set    a       1,800    1.8  3.6   5.4   1.8            12.6
Tools ~: Eouipmenti'.ac . - - - - - . - . set   16  7L0    3.0  3.0   3.0   3.0        12.0
Radio Telephones - Yobile-.... set   11       2,640    7.9  7.9  10.6   2.6            29.0
,, ,,            Fixed ...  set    1       2,970    -    -       3.0    -            3.0
Off-ice Furnitare (Jijuga)..... set    1      5,000    -    -      5.0    -             5.0
Sub-total                                       15.8 18.7  32.3  10.5           77.3
'Jeterinary Lcuirnent
Base set ..................... set    9       3,800   11.4  11.4  11.4     -          34.2
Mobile seti/ ................set   16         1,500    6.0  6.0   6.0   6.0            24.o
Sub-total                                       17.4 17.4  17.4   6.0           58.2
Central Bufldincgs"
Housilig & office ............. set    1   110,000    -  110.0        -               11C.0
Tot      o t                                  293.2 366.6 335.4  187.9       1,183.1
Contingency:  Physical at 10%                            29.3  36.7  33.5   18.8          11c.3
PrIice    at  5% *--.                     14.7  18.3  16.8    9.4           59.2
Total Investment Costs..                      337.2  421.6 385.7 216.1       1,360-6
1/ One per assistant livestock marketing officer.
2/ One Der market master.
3/ Includes Cattle Spraying Equipment.
1.'or livestock marketing officer, Jijiga.
February 25, 1972



ANNE~X 4
ETHlOPIA                                                                               ANn3 x
SBCElD LGTSTO%K   = I      fI   PROJCT
l;n*et and Stoockroute Dearutnt - Technical and Adainistrative Services
294q"ats
Unit CoSt
Caterory                                         Unit   Eths                       _.____-- ------------------ Year - -----------------          ---------------~~~~~
Haadquartr.ra                                                                                        ¶             2             3               4      S                    6-20
Generat
glarfMarket & Stodersuta  Departe_nt .............. man/yeore   12,000                                          -             -               -            12.0            12.0
Deputy Road of*irket & Stockroute   eaDertmbet ...     . . an/yd cre   12,000                  12.0          12.0         12.0            12.0              -
Secrat ry .................    ........................   .an/Yara    9,680                     9.7           9.7          9.7              9.7           9.7             9.7
Clerk Grade I       .....................................:.moe/ysra    4,900                    4.9          4.9            4.9            4.9            4.9             6.9
Clerk g7da 2.                                              mJv'yera  4,130                   4,1   4.1                    461               .1            4.1             4.1
5r r  R slaoe2..550                                                                            2. 6         2 6n          2,50 2                                         2.6
Vehicle frnlaioteoowe & tinning ~05t6Al                                                          -                                                                       10.0.................   yer  10,O O C  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0
VYaintemcn,. & R inig C..t             6y ..ea..............    yer  19,200           19.2          19.2          19.2            19.2           19.2            19.2
Paileunance & ?Aplao-,o1 of Dpioip .ent.: .........           -          -                       -            2.0          2.6             3.2            6.6 b.4
Ctatiolbry, Legal feeo, lJtilitieo, ate. Addle Office..       -            _                   20.0         20.0          20.0            20.0           20.0            20.0
JtJ     gl l - _.                               _                                                9 o          g.0  1L.0        14.0
Sub-total ........                                                                        72.5         84.5          94.      1    120.9           100.9           107.9
Maintrn-e Units~
)ieonl Fuel, Sll Cools & Spre .         ....................    year       700                  0.7           1.4          2.1              3.5           3.5              1
ArtisOan .....                      -           -.- ....I. ...r. -.-----....  r ,130           12.4         24.0           37.2           62.0           62.0            62.1
L.b-res .....--.--..---......----..   ............. -tkhe  WMAn//'YY*8arBa    "'81300           3.3           6.6         lo,O            16.6           16.6            16.6
Suo-total                                                                                 16.6         32.8          49.3            82.1           82.1            H2.1
W,irketig TeaO
StarrY
Livestock Marketing Offier .             ......................            J.?1               10.           30.3         50.5            50.5           60.6
Asebatant Livestock Macrkting Officer ...       ....        a/re            9,300              18.6          37.2         65.1            74.4           74.6             7,.,
Market M.uter/ Auotiner ......a y............                   ere    7,200                   28.6          57.6          86.4          115.2          115.2            11.2
Cushier ..........   a                                          aeare    7,200                  -             -            7.2             7.2            7.2             7.2
Accounts Clerk .......  i,,sn/e&rs    5,850                                                      -             -           5.9             5.9             5.9      S       .9
Ty.it ..... ...                                                    rle 5,850                    -            _            11.7            11.7          11.7             11.7
Clerk Grade 1 ..................................                  a       ,900                 49 0          98.0        1519            200.0          200.9           200.9
Clerk  rd .  ...........2ne..........................a..    re            ,130                 33.0          66.1         107.4           14P.7         148.7            145.7
TPricer ............................................        an/yasre    2,550                  17.9          35.7          58.7            68.9           68.9            68.9
Ch Gurd .              ...................................... a          1,500                  6.0          12,0          22.5            31.5          31.5             31.5
rorter/Walch-rV/ssesgar,- , etc ...................    ,     n/teea"       870                 29.1         6o.i          94.1            125.1         125.1           125.1
snital Health Assistant ..........................  ,:         r         9,300                 37.2          74.4        111.6            148.8         148.8           11B.8
Vaccinutor ........         .          .            .......              2,800                 11.2          22.4          33.6           46.8            66.8            44.3
`sb-tota.                                                                                240.9   493.8   806.6    1,033.6  1,033.6    1.033.6
l peacol, Grusg  & 57frigerati ne  Etc.                   sat         3,000                 21.0         42.0          63.0             75.0          75.0             75.0
VehIcle 6 Troilor hlaplaceiectok/  -           -                      -          ~~~~    ~     ~~~~     ~     ~~~~~20.1  65.0  82.9  96.7     96.7
Geciels M Tintiannse k Ruososing c.uta           ..     .                                      24.0          52. 0       110.6           122.6           122.6           12.6 
Trail,r iiaictenooea (Spa rse cnlyO ...                                                                        ..5                          1.8            1.4             1.6
M.iltenance of Osneral Equipnt     .....        ............                                    -             1.6         3*5               6.7            7.7             7.7
'ab-tntal                                                                                 45.4        116.5         223.4           288.8          303.6           303.6
Totl.                                                                                    375.2  727.6  1,173.4  1,499.2  1,520.2   1,520.2
f.o,511010 -0... Pk2..i2... io.                                                                    37.5          72.8        117.3           149.9          152.0            152.0
Total oprating Costa                                                                     12.7        800.4       1,290.7         1,669.1        1,672.2         1 672 2
/  U.nit costa eho-s ar beasic salariea, plus four anjal profIciency incre_ent.
eloc 30% a1lowaseee for travel, hosing, penalon fund/gratuity, leave pay, field
b.cue and .Ocortice.
At  S        - -er osocie of ccct price feo, the year after purchare.
,/ ti:  i.toecan.en, inooratcc, L-oes, otc.  Lorry 32,000 keeyr 6 Etht0.35/ke 4-
abc-K drivr vohileso 32,1)00 ioVyr d EthS0.25/k..
A/ At IOS pe1 ama-  of ccct price.  Insladee replaceent.
N FIcel e.aioora1c, i.surnce, taaeo, etc. Lorry 64,000 km/yr, k Bth80.35/kr, Ii-
d'co21 1:-ic ce,ui-leua 16,L0U0 km/yr, O lth$G.25/kI.
c rc 2   119,2






ANNE E
Table I
ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - LMB Operated Cattle Truck
Investment, Revenue and Operating Costs
(Eth$OOO)
------------------ Years ---------
2.      2         3          4         5
Investment
Truck & Trailer                        63.0       -         -         -          -
Contingency - Physical 10%              6.3       -         -          -         -
- Price     5%             3.2       -          _         -         -
Total Investment                  72.5        
Reve me
Transporti.ng Cattle                   20.5      51.0      51.0      51.0       51.0
Backload4/                              2.9       5.8       5.8       5.8        5.8
Total Revenue                     23.4     56.8       56.8      56.8       56.8
_ = a__- 
Operating Costs
Fuel 1/                                 4.7       9.3       9.3       9*3        9*3
Maintenance                             3.1       6.3       6.3       6.3        6.3
Insurance, Registration & Fees          3.3       6.6       6.6       6.6        6.6
Driver                                  2.4       4.8       4.8       4.8        4.8
Driver's Assistant                      0.4       0.8       0.8       0.8        0.8
Sub-Total                         13.9     27.8       27.8      27.8       27.8
Contingency - Physical 10%              1.4       2.8       2.8       2.8        2.8
Total Operating Costs             15.3     30.6       30.6      30.6       30.6
1/  62,000 km/yr @ 3 kmi/  of fuel @ gth$0.45/1.
7/  Including insurance of cargo.
55 head/trip of average length 340 km, and 90 tripe/
year @ Eth$0.03 per head km.
4/ 31,00 km per year at 0.25 of the 15 ton capacity at Eth$0.05/ton km.
February 25, 1972



Table 2
ETHOPIA
SECOND LWrToCK In IDPHU  PROJECT
Model - Privately Operated Cattle Truck
Financial ProJection
(lSth$000)
--------------lear-------______
Category                            1       2        3       4        5
CASH Ign
1. Revenue
a.  Transporting Cattle JV  ............ 5.1*       51.0    51.0    51.0    51.0
b.  Backload  2/ ........................   5.8      5.8     5.8      5.8      5.8
2.  Investment
a.  Trucker's Contribution ............. 14.5         -       -        -        -
b.  Iong-term Loan          ............. 58.0        -        -       -        -
3. Short-term Resources 3/
a.  Iast Year's Cash Balance ...........   -         5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0
b.  Trucker's Contribution  ............   5.0        -        -       -        -
Total Expected Cash Inflow ........ all.U      61.8    61.8    61.8    61.8
CASH OUTFLIW
1. Investment 4/
a.  Trucker'sJ Oantribution ............  14.5        -       -        -        -
b.  Long-term Loan ....................  58.0         -        -       -        -
2. Operating Costs
a.  Fuel  5/                       ......  9.3       9.3     9.3      9.3     9.3
b. Maintenance                        .    6.3       6.3     6.3      6.3     6.3
c.  Insurance, Registration and Feas 6/.  6.6        6.6     6.6      6.6     6.6
d. Dr iver 4.8 ... 6.00.6.... .... O.-. 4.8          4.8     4.8      4.8     4.8
e.  Driver's Assistant.................    0.8      0.8     0.8      0.8     0.8
Sub-total ......................... 27.8    27.8    27.8    27.8    27.8
Contingencies - Physical 10% ....... 2.8        2.8      2.8      2.8     2.8
Sub-total ................... ....... 30.6    30.       30.6    30.6    30.6
3.  Debt Servioe - long-tert Loan   .       .   18.1.   18.1    18.1    18.1          -
4.  Available for Cash ldthdrawl3s ...........  8.1        8.1      8.1     8.    31.2
Total Expected Cash Outflow  ...... .2j        56.8 .56.8    56.8    61.8
Balance at year's I a   ................  5.0    5.0     5.0      5.0      -
1/  55 head per trip average 340 km. 90 trips per year a Xth$0.30 per head/km.
T/ 31,000 km/unit/year at ¼ of the 15 ton capacity at Bth$0.05 ton/km.
/ To fund two months operating costs.
r/  Truck and Trailer                 t 3000............ Rb$63
Contingencies - Physioal 10%. Nth$ 6,300
Contingencies - frice 5%..... Ith$ 3,150
TOtal .. ..........sees". atqh$72,450
5/  62,000 km/year at 3 kmniter of fuel 0 Rth$0.45/liter.
6/ Includes insurance of cargo.
7/  At 9.5% per year.
February 25 1972



ANNEX6
ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Mbdel I - Slaughterslab Weekly Throughput About 16-Head  of Cattle
Investment Cost
(Eth$)
No. of
INVESTMENTS                        Unit   Units  Unit Cost       Year-I     Total Cost
Fencing  m..................            120      4.6            552        552
Gates *..,m ..*.....0....0*0   i          2     73.0            1-6       l146
Building: Slaughterslab          2
with Roof .......  m         17     123.0         2,091       2,091
Slaughter Equipment ........                                    390        390
Hide Shed & Frames                       1X820                           1,820
Sub-total                                                4,99 9 4,999
Contingency:  Physical 10%..                                    499        499
Price 5% _....                                   249         249
Total Investment Cost                                    5,747       5,747
February 25. 1972



ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
rla
Model I - Slaughterslab Weekly Throughput About 16 Head  of Cattle
Revenue and Operating Costs
(Eth$)
------------Year -----------------
Category                       Unit   Unit Oost        1         2        3         4                  6         7-20
REVENUE
Throughput of Cattle ...............   no          -           260      520       55°      580       610      640         670
Slaq&terFadnities & Hide Shed Fees *  no          2.75         715    1,430    1,513    1,595    1,678    1,760         1,843
Hide Shed Fees  2/ .................   no         1.50        _78       156       165      174       183      190         200
Total Revenue ****.... **                                 793    11586   1L678    1,769   186J.   1,9$ 0 3        2 043
OPERATING COSTS
Maintenance of Buildings
and Plant (3% of Investment) ......                           -       150       l5O      15o       150      150         150
Consumable Stores  .................                            30       60        63       66        69       73          77
Staff Salaries:
Hide Worker  3/.       ............ man/year  4h8            300      600       630      665       700      700         700
Sub-total  .                                              330      810       843      881       919      923         927
Contingency:
Physical 10% *.............. a..o                             33       81        84       88        91        92         92
Total Operating Costs  ......                             363      891       927      969  1,010    1,015
1/  Allow six months to start-up.
2/  Fees for suspension drying hides from cattle not slaughtered on slaughterslabs.
3/  In addition to initial basic salary of Eth$480/year, a worker annually gets 20% for social
service -payments, and 5%/year ir year-2 through year-5 as merit increases.                                             F -
rV,3



ANNEX 6
Table 3
ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Model II - Slaughterslab Weekly Throughput About 80 Head of Cattle
Investment Cost
No. of
INVESTMENTS                                 Unit   Units  Unit Cost  Year-l  Total Cost
Fencing *.*.,.......................    m       220       4.86     1,070    1,070
Gates ............*...s......*.,...    m          5      72.00       360       360
Buildings:  Office and Outbuildings.                                 444       44
Slaughterslab...........                              6,850    6,850
Offal Slab       a b.........                            458      458
Effluent Disposal ..................                               1,080    1,080
Slaughter Equipment ................                               2,268    2,268
Water Installation ......368                                                   368
Cattle Pen .......... C*.**e........                                 552       552
Hide Shed & Frames .................                               5,198    5,198
Sub-total                                                    18,6h8   18,6h8
Contingency:  Physical 10% .........                               1,864   1,864
Price 5%      ..                                       932      932
Total Investment Cost .........                              21,444   2l,444
February 25, 1972



ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
Mdel II - Slaughterslab Weekly Throughput About 80 Head  of Cattle
Revenue and Operating Costs
(Eth$)
---------- -- Year------       --   --   - ---     - --
Category                      Urit   Unit Cost        1         2       3         4                  6         720
REVENUE
Throughput of Cattle ................    no         -           625     2,500   2,630    2,760    2,900       3,050    3,200
SlaughterFai1ities & Hide Shed Fees .   no         2.75       1,719     6,875   7,232    7,590    7,975       8,388    8,800
Hide Shed Fees 2/..................    no          1.50         187       750      789      828       870        915      96O
Total Revenue .............                               90   7, 625   8.021    8,4X8    8m845          9,303    9760
OPERATING COSTS
Maintenance of Buildings
and Plant (3% of Investment).*                                _         558      558      558       558        558      558
Consumable Stores, Knives, Tools;":                              55       220      231      2h2       254        266      279
Office Stationery, Postage.........        .                    -         220      220       220      220        220      231
Water ................m3o..............    3       0.50          17        66       69        73       77         80        84
Staff Salaries 3/ t
Technician ..........               man/year   1,200          360     1,510   1,600    1,670    1,750       1,750    1,750
Hide Worker  m/ ,.............. man/year          480         288     1,200   1,260    1,330    1,4oo       1,400    2,100
Guards   .................. man/year    1480                  288     1,200   1,260    1,330    1,LO400        400    140
Sub-total .................                             1,008      4,9974   5,198    5,I423    5,659     5,674    6,402
Contingency:
Physical 10%           ............                           100        497     519       542      565        567      64bo
Total Operating Costs ........                          1,108      5,1471   5,71    5,965   -6,224       6,241   _7o42
1/  Tree months operations only year-1.
2/  Fees for suspension drying hides from cattle notslaughtered on slaughterslabs.
2/  In addition to initial basic salary of Eth$480/year, a worker annually gets 20% for social
service payments, and 5%/year in year-2 through year-5 as merit increases.
/  Additional hide worker eniployed from year-7.



ANNEX 6
Table 5
ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVIEWPMENT PROJECT
Model III - Slaughterhouse Weekly Throughput About 170 Head of Cattle
Investment Cost
(Eth$)
No. of
INVESTMENTS                              Unit  Units  Unit Cost  Year-i  Total Csst
Fencing .............................  m    350       4.54    1,590      1,590
Gates                                  m       5     72.0        360       360
Buildings:  Slaughterhouse             M2   190    174.0      33,060    33,060
Latrine & Outbuildings ., m2    50        6.0        300       300
Effluent Disposal ....................*O                       2,970     2,970
Abattoir Equipment ..................                          5,700      5,700
Water Installation . .oo .......                               1.,092     1,092
Electricity Installatio.............0                          1,900     1,900
Cattle Penso................... ....o.  m     94      8.0        752       752
Hide Shed & Frames ........o..60wR*                            8,960      8,960
Access Road ........... o.......  im2   235           4.5O     1,056     1,056
Delivery Area ..............      , a. m2   200       4.50       900        900
Meat Delivery Vehicle .*W*9ea9*Q .*a,, no    1 20,000.00    20,000    20,000
Office Equipment *....0e 0*0 ve00 *o0 *                          200       200
Safe ..............                    no    1    300.00         300       300
Sub-total         0......                                   79,1140
Contingency: Physical 10% *.... o.00                           7,914     7,914
Price 5%.......                                  3,957     3,957
Total Investment Cost                             91,011    91,012
February 25, 1972



LNNEX 6
ET-HIOPIA                                            Table 6
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELDOPMNT PROJECT
Hodel III - Slaughterhouse Weekly Throughput About 170 Head of Cattle
Revenue and tDrating Costs
-----------------Year--------------------------
Category                    Unit   Unit Cost        1  '      2        3    _ 4           5         6
REVENTE
Throughput of Cattle  . .                      no                         5,280    5,550    5,830       6,130   6,hoo      6,;-c
Slaughterhouse and Hide Shed Fees,
Meat Delivery Charges ........    ......... no      7.50                39,600   41. 6       3,725     5.975  48,300    50.77
Total Revenue  3..........39,600 h,625 .4                                                3,725     4975    8,300 
OPERATING ;OSTS
Yaintenance of Buildings
and Plant (3Z of Investment) ...-                                        1,650    1,650    1,650       1,650   1,650 '
.onsumable Stores .......................-                                 1,000    1,050    1,102       1,157   1,215       , 7
Ofrice Stationery, Telephone, Postage  ...  3                                480       480      480       1480    1480
.Jater .................................              0.50          -        212       223      234        246      258       271
Electricity ..........                       kwh      0.10           _        72        76     - 80         84       88
Vehicle Maintenance, Insurance, Fuel  n.... km        0.30          -      4,500    4,500    4,500       4,500   4,500      L,jJ)
Replacement Of Vehicle (10< of
Investment Cost)  2/                                                               2,000    2,000      2,000   2,000      2,000
Staff Salaries 3/:
Technicia 7T1T  ............     .......... no    1800.00         -      2,160    2,270    2,380       2,500   2,630      2,63G
Slaughterman (2) ........... ............ no      540.00          -      1,300    1,360    1,430       1,500   1,580      1,58C
Flayers (4) ............................ no       600.00          -      2,880    3,020    3,180       3,450   3,520      3,520
Eviserator (1) .............               no     540.00          -        650       680      71      0           790       7 0
Butcher (3) ...........................  no       540.00          -      1,950    2,040    2,130       2,250   2,370      2,370
Offal Wiorker (1) ..............-.-.. no          540.00          -        650       680      710        750      790       790
Ride Worker (3) .........    .............. no    600.00          -      2,160    2,260    2,380       2,590   2,640      2,640
Driver (1) ............. ............... no       720.00          -      1,730    1,810    1,900       2,000   2,100      2,100
Guards (2) ............. ...............  no      480.00          -      1,160    1,210    1,270       1,330   1,OO      1,8400
General Slaughter"- 14/ ................6  _                                                   50        680      710     1,580
Sub-total                                                           22,554   25,309  26,78t    27,917  28,721    29,691
Contingency:
Physical 10%    ..............                                           2.554   2,530    2.680        2,791   2.87     2 2,96L
Total Operating Costs .............                                 25,108   27.839   29.466    30.708  31.593    32  6-3
1/  Allow one year construction to start up.
2/ Replacement of vehicle at 10 years.
3/ in addition to initial basic salary of Eth$480/year, a worker annually gets 20i for social
service payments, and 5%/year in year-2 through year-5 as merit increases.
14/  .dditicnal slaughterhouse worker introduced in year-4 and year-7.
ebriarv 25, 1972



ANNEX 6
Table 7
ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEIDPMENT PROJECT
Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Department - Technical and Administrative Services
Investment Costs
No. of             -------------Year---------    Total
INVESTMENTS                          Unit  Units Unit Cost        1      2       3      4      Cost
Headquarters
4-Wheel Drive ................ no         1    12,000    12,000      -       -      -    12,000
Car    .... no                           1      6,000     6,ooo      -      -       -     6,000
Desks  o.o................. no            6       140        840     -       -      -       840
Desk Chairs .........o,......... no      6         80       480      -      -       -       480
Office Chairs  ................ no    12           25        300     -      -       -       300
Filing Cabinets ................ no      4        200        800     -      -       -       800
Calculators ........oo ..... o no        2      1,100     2,200      -      -       -     2,200
Safe ..... no                            1      1,600     1,600      -      -       -     1,6oo
Stationery Cupboard ............ no      1        300        300     -      -       -       300
Typewriters .o............*so...  no     1        720       720      -      -       _       720
Sub-total ......*..*.                               25,240      -      -       -    25,240
SalAries
Head of Slaughter Facilities
and Hide Shed Department .... no       1    90,000    90,000 90,000 90,000 90,000  360,000
Slaughter Facilities and
Hide Shed Teams
4-Wheel Drive ..9o,.os9.. *oo....  no    14    12,000    60,000 72,000 36,000       -   168,000
Office Tables and Chairs *...... sets  24         200      1,000  1,200    600      -     2,800
Safe ......,......*...**   no    14               300     1,500  1,800    900       -     4,200
Tools and Knives ............... sets  84          90      2,700  3,240  1,620      -      7,560
Sub-total ...... ......65,200 78,240 39,120                                    -   1b2,560
Training
Superintendents l/ .............14                850      4,250  5,100  2,550      -    11,900
Technicians 1/ ..      ..  Soo..         84       850    25,500 30,600 15,300       -    71,400
Slaughter Facilities'Technicians 2/    69         850     6,800 16,150 20,400 15,300   58,650
Flayers 2/ ******.....***......   -      46       600      4,800  9,600  9,600  4,800   28,800
Hidt-Shed W.torkers 2/......./....       480      100    6,600 13,400 16,400 11,600   48,000
Sub-total ..............                            47,950 74,850 64,250 31,700  216,750
Total  *o ooo-                                     228,390 243,090 193,370 121,700 786,550
Contingency: Physical at 10%  ... o.                       22,839. 24,309 19,337 12,170. 78,655
Price    at  5% .....                        11.120  12,1LiS  _9668   6-0 5 -Q,37
Total Investment Cost .....                        262,64q9r 27955322,395i3., 905 2L.i9v
M/  Attached to Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Teams that are mobile.
2/ Attached to particular slaughter facilities.
'ebruary 25, 1972



ETI,,I ?I
.C<iD LV I'rTu_CCK LEVy3lP.?00T ?Ru'JECT
Slaughter FacilU'ties and Hide Shed Department - Technical and Administrative Services
0rating  cst
No. of                         -----------------------------------------Ytar-----------------------------------------
Category                                      Units        Unit Cost            1           2           3                                  C 0          7           8-20
'I *adauarterF
Head of Slaughter Facilities and
Hide Shed Department .....      ................ man/year      1            12,000            -           _           _           -         1?.00()     12,O0       12,000      12,000
Deputy Head of Slaughter Facilities and
Hide Shed Department ...............   ......                  1            12,000          12,000      12,000      12,003      12,300        -           -           -           -
Tynist . ...................................    "               1              5,050           5,P50       5,850       5,850       ,60         6,<3        5,653       5,850       5,850
Clerks .............        .............                       2             5,850           11,700      11,70G      11,700     11,700      1a.7 T0     11,700      11,7G0       11,700
Driver .................. ..............                        1             2550             2,550       2,550       2,55        2,t50       2,550       2,550      2,550        2,550
MesEenger ..........    .......................                 1                780             780         780         7bO         780         7t0         730         780         780
Sub-tota.                                                                          32,880      32,b80      32,880      32,8b3      32,180      32,80       32,880      32,680
Replacement of 4-Wheel Drive  I/ .... ......  year-                           2,400             _         2,400       2,400       2,L30       2,400       2,300        2,430       2,400
Vehicle Maintenance, Fuel, Insiurance   ] .-   ".                            10,400          l0,)tOO      10, 400    10,400      10,40       lo,40 L,0COO   10,000                 8,000
Stationery, Postage, Telephone ....     ........   I'                         1,500            1,500       L 50°      1,500 1,500              1,500 1,500             1,500       1,500
Sub-total                                                                          11,900      14,300      14,300      14 300      14 1,,900               11,900      11,900
Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Teams  3/
Suoerintendents ............................ man/year          14  4/         6,ooo           19,500      64,350    103,8h0    121,320    126,150    132,370    132,720    132.720
Techniciars     ...............................                84             1,200           23,400      77,280    124,680    145,743    153.120    157,980    159,603          26,500
Mechanics            ............                              14   7         3,300           10,725      35,370     57,0P5      66,730      70,010       72,110      72,800      72.800
Sub-total .        .          ..625    177,000    285,605    333,790    349,280  Ro2,4,                                                             o    365,120    2)2,120
Reolacenant of 4-Wheel Drive I/ .... .......  year                            2,400             -         6,000      19,200      30,000      33,600      33,600       33,600      33,600
Vehicle Maintenance, Fuel, Insurance 2/ ...        ' 1                        6,ooo           15,000      48,000     75,000       })1,ooo    841,000    8f4,000       R4,00o      814,000
Stationery, Postage, Telephone        ............                               250             625      2.000        3.126       3,500      3.500        3,500       3,500       3,500
Renlacement Tools, Knives       1.................    "50                                        750      2.400       3.75D       4,230       4,200       4,200       4,200 2310J
Sub-total                                                                          i6.R75      58.400    101.075    121,100    125.3'0    125,300    125,300    123,200
Total          ,.114.780    252.530    433.8-c    502, 70    521,'7)    532,540    535.200                                                                             0,100
Contingency:  Physical lO  ..................                                                   11.4-       2.258   4.3             50.2.        2,L          24         3,5231
Total Operating Costs                              19*, 28...1 O77-,                                                                                          . 72    01)0 1TO
Reolaced after five years.
Four-wh el drive 32,000 km at gth$0.25/'km; car 11,003 km at ienSsl.1b/km.
In addi ti.n to initial basic salary, a worker receives 20? 5ectal servic-F and 1 j
away fn,m hom  allovnnce and a 52  annual merit increaFe  in year-.' s        : o'h
year- .  Al.fn, each team c,nly works six m(c11th- in i's f;--t year n 7R   t  +3F 
CiY -,WhtIC ta trmin a t.asn prior to startinr;.
f   ^t ful' "i-v Icoment.
;t fuU 2 Iyear at Fth$1.:75/km.



IPI                                                                                     EThTOPIA
N.                                                                       SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENI PROJECT
Model - Fattening Ranch 3,500 ha
Herd Projection
Before               ---------------------------------------Yaar-------------------------------
Category                             Unit      Development            1            2            3           4            5            6            7-20
Herd Composition
Purchased Steers, 2 Years to Fatten .............. head             -                  -           400          400          400          400          400           400
Purchased Steers, 1 Year to Fatten ....     ...........  head       -                  -            700         768          772          776          780           780
Breeding-Fattening Herd ......      ....................  head     875 1/              _            -           -            -            -            -             -
Total Head .875                                                            _.1 0-0   1,168    1 ,71  ,1_6    1,180  1,180
Deaths - Total .79                                                                            _   -                 88    82    70    59    59
Purchases
Steers, 2 Years to Fatten ......      ..................  head      -                  -           400          400          400          400          400           4!~0
Steers, I Year to Fatten ......      ...................  head      -                  _            700         400          400          400          400           400
Total Purchases   -      .-                                                              1.100          80800                     800         800           800
Sales
Steers @ 420 kg Liveweight  2/ .................... head                            -                            644         714          726          741           741
Cull Cows and Steers @ 250 kg/head ...............  head            67                              -            -           -            -            -             -
Technical Coefficients
Mortality (Adult Stock) ...................                          9                 -            -              8            7           6            5             5
Stocking Rate ...........                             ha/AU          4                 -            3.2          3.0         3.0          3.0          3.0           3.0
Weaning Rate ..........                                 %           36                              -            -            -            -           -             -
I/ 1,750 AU conmprising a breeding-fattening herd are carried for six monLhs duirinig the wet season,
equiivalent to 875 AU per full year.
2/  Liveweight gain about110 kg/head/year from purchase,



ANNEX -
'b1.
ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEL0PhENT PROJECT
Model - Fattening Ranch 3,500 ha
Investment Costs
(EthS$ '000)
Number                    Unit                   -----------Year-------
Sat2uory                             Unit                   of Units                   Cost                       _                   2                     Co.+
(Ith$)
FIXED INVESTMENTS
Fencing. Roads and Firebronks
Boundary Foec ...........I..,.        ..... km                           26                       800                     20.8                  - '0.8
Internal Fencing (Night Paddocks) .........    km                          10                       800                      4.0                 4.0                     -
Access Road to Ranch Center .            .............    ,,,.             10                        500                     5.0                  -
Firehraks ........ ....................... h.o                             20                        200                     2.0                 2.0
Sub-total. .........................                                                                                 31.8         6        .0
wtldings
Manager's  oSe .       ................           no                                               5,000                     5.0                  -
Store .  , .                       .........  no                           1                     2,000                      2.0
Labor  i.u.s.   ..........    ,     .      ,      no                        6                        600                     3.6
Sub-total. .......................,, 10.6 _
Cattle Handling Facilities
Svray Race, Shed, Crush and Yards .........    set                          1                     3,000                      3.0                  -
Spray, Pump and Engine ....................    set                          1                     1,000                      1.0                  - _:
sob-total   ..........................                                                                                4-0
W.ater Su-pply
Boreholc and Casing    ......... ......... no                               1                    18,000                     18.0                  -                     18.0
Borehole Equipeent ........      .s..............    set                    1                     4,000                     4.0                   -                      L. ¼
ReservoIr (12,000 Gallons) ...............         o                        1                     2,OO                       2.0                  -                      2.,
Pipe and Fittings .......      .................                          100                          5                     0.5                  -                      0.5
Troughs ......no......... ,.............                    no 2                                     350                     0.7                  -           0.7
Don ......... ...........                                  ,               1                     9,000                     _                    9.0                     9.0
Sub-total ............,,.                                                                                            25.2                 9.0                    34.1
Vehicles asd Equipment
Pick-up Vehicle ...............,,.,.             no                         1                    10,000                     10.0                  -                     1T
Tools and Cattle Handling Equipment .......        et                       1                        500                     0.5                  -                       ¼
Sub-total .........................10.5                                                                                                    -                      10.5
Sub-total - Fimed Inv-st.-.en.s                                                                                      82.1                15.0                    97.1
Cortiugencics: Physical 107                                                                                                  8.2                 1.5                     9.7
Price 5..                                                                                                   4.1                 0.8 6.               tv
Total Fixed Investments                                                                                              94.4                17.3                   117
WORPtING CAPITAL
Manager's Salary ..........................         m na/years                 1.5                   5,400.00                  2.7                 5.4                     8.
Laborers ... ...................................    nan/years                 6.0                      480.00                   -                  2.9                     2.9
Minerals and Veterinary ......      ..............    head                1,100.0                        6.00                   -                  6.6                     6.c
Spraying . ...................................    head                    1,100.0                        2.50                   -                  2.8                     2.8
Maintenance of Assets ......       ................    year                    1.0                   3,500.00                   -                  3.5                     3.5
Vehicle Running and Maintenance ....      ........    k.                 22,500.0                        0.20                  1.5                 3.0                     4.5
Borehole Running .......      ....................    hours                 700.0                        3.00                  0.3                 1.8                     2..
Snail Tools, Office Running .....      ...........    years                   2.0                      500.00                  0.5                 0.5                     1.0
S-total                                                                                                               3 5.0              26.5                    31.5
Steers, 2 Years to Fatten .....       .............    head                 400.0                       66.00                   -                 26.4                    26.4
Steers, I Year to Fatten ..      ..................    head                 700.0                       99.00                   -                 69.3                    69.3
Sub-total                                                                                                             5.0               122.2                   127.2
Cotingetncies: Physical 10%l o                                                                                                 0.5                 2.7                     3.2
Price 5'..                                                                                                     0.3                6.1                      6.4
Total Working Capital                                                                                                 5.8               131.0                    136.8
Total Investment Costs                                                                                              100.2               148.3                   246.5
1/ Not applied to livestock purchases.
-e-r,,ry 25, 497'



ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Fattening Ranch 3,500 ha
Revenue and Operating Costs
(EthS)
--------Unit Price------------
Before               Post                Before 1/         -----------------------------Year------------------------
Category                       Unit         Development          Development          Development          I         2         3        4         5         6         7-20
REVENUE
Sale of Steers ......     ..............   head           70  2/               190  3/              4.7            4.7         -      122.!,   135.7    137 .9    140.8        140.8
Sale of Hides  ......     ..............   ½ deaths       -                      8                   -              -         -       _0.4        0.3       0.3       0.2        0.2
Total Revenue                                                                                 4.7             4.7        _       122.8    136.0    138.2    141.0        141.0
OPERATING COSTS
Operating
Manager .......     ..................   man/years      -                  5,400.00                -               -                  5.4       5.4       5.4       5.4        5.4
Laborers .............  I ... I......   man/years      480                   480.00               1.9            1.9                  2.9       2.9       2.9       2.9        2.9
Minerals and Veterinary .........  head                  0.50                  6.00               0.4            0.4        -         7.0       7.0       7.1       7.1        7.1
Spraying .......     .................   head           -                      2.50                -              -         -         2.9       2.9       2.9       2.9        2.9
Maintenance of Assets  4/ .......  year                 -                  6,300.00                -               -        -         4.3       4.3       4.3       4.3        4.3
Vehicle Running and Maintenance .   km                  -                      0.20                -              -         -         3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0        3.0
Borehole Running .....     ...........   h,;;rs         -                      3.00                -              -         -         1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8        1.8
Replacements  5/        ...............                 -                       -                  -              -         -          -         -         -       10.0        2.0
Small Tools, Office Running   .....  year              100                   500.00               0.1            0.1                  0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5        0.5
Sub-total                                                                                     2.4             2.4        -        2'.8      27.8      27.8     37.8       29.8
Contingencies: Physical 10%                                    _-                                                  -                  2.8       2.8       2.8       3.8        3.0
Sub-total                                                                                     2.4             2.4         _       30.6      30.6      30.6     41.6        32.8
Livestock Purchases
Steers, 2 Years to Fatten 6/ ....   head                _                     66.00                                -                 26.4      26.4      26.4      26.4       26.4
Steers, 1 Year to Fatten 7/ .....    head               -                     99.00                _                                 39.6      39.6      39.6      39.6       39.6
Sub-total                                           _-                                                         -                  66.0      66.0      66.0     66.0        66.0
Total Operating Costs                                                                          2.4            2.4        -        96.6      96.6      96.6    107.6        98.8
1/  Based on a typical breeding fattening herd of 875 AU with a 7.7_. offtake (including home consumption).
Only 875 AU can be ruin on the land before water resources are developed.
2/  250 kg @ Eth$0.30/kg in the local market less Eth$5 per head miarketing expenses.                                                                                                       m 
420 kg ( Eth$0.50/kg in Addis Ababa market less transport EthSlS/head and selling fees and feed Eth$5/head.
4/  At 57, of investment cost of fencing, roads, firebreaks, buildings an,d cattle handling facilities and
water supply.
5/  Equated at 207 oer annum of purchase price after vear-6.
6/  Average 200 kg liveweight at EthSO.33,/kg landed, or EthS66/head.
7/  Average 300 kg livewoight at EthSO.33,'kg landed, or Eth$99/head.



ETHIOPIA
a                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECOND LLVE~.TOCK DEVE.LOPMENT PROJECT
-I-
a
Model -FteigRnh350h
Financial Projection
(Eth$'000)
PO
Before           ---                                                     ear.-----------
Category                            Development             1          2            3          4            5           6           7-13            14-19           20
CASH INFLOW
1.  Annual Sales ....... .................           4.7              4.7           -       122.8       136.0       138.2        141.0          141.0           141.0        192.5  2/
2.  Investments
a.  Rancher Contribution 1/ .......             -              20.0        29.7          -           -           -                   -               -
b.  Long-term Loans .....     ..........        -              80.2       118.6          -            -          _            _              _                            _
3. Short-term Resources
a.  Last Year's Cash Balance ......             -                -           -           -          3.0         4.7         8.6             3.0            3.0           3.0
b.  Rancher Contribution    ..........          -               1.5        13.3          -           -           -           -               -
c.  Short-term Loans ...............                             -           -           -           -
Total Expected Cash Inflow ....           4.7            106.4        161.6      122.8       139.0        142.9       149.6          144.0           144.0        195.5
CASH OUTFLOW
1.  Investments
a.  Rancher Contribution ..........             -              20.0        29.7          -           -           -           -               -
b.  Long-term Loans ...............-                           80.2.      1.6            -           -           -           -               -       l          
2.  Operating Costs       .        ..........        2.4              2.4          -         96.6        96.6        96.6        107.6           98.8            98.8         32.8
3. Debt Service
a.  Of Long-term Loans  3/......                -               3.8        13.3        18.9        31.7        31.7        31.7            3i.7
b.  Of Short-term Loans  4/ .......             -                -           -           -           -                                       -
4,  Available for Cash Withdrawals ......            2.3                            -         4.3          6.0         6.0         73            10.5            42.2        162.7
Total Expected Cash Outflow ...           4.7             106.4       161.6       119.8       134.3       134.3       146.6          141.0           141.0        195.5
Balance at Year End ...........           0.0              0.0         0.0         3.D         4.7          8.6         3.0            3.0             3.0           -
1/  20% of total investment.
2/ Wiriding up sale
741 head @ Eth$180 = Eth$141.0
380 head @ Eth$135 = Eth$ 51.3
Sale of Hides       = Eth$  0.2
Tot.l             Eth$192.5
3/  At 9.5Z per annum.
4/  At 10.5% per anon.Lm



ANNEX 8
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Terms of Reference for Preparation
of the Fourth Livestock Development Project
1.        The Bank Group Livestock Review and Identification Mission which
visited Ethiopia in April/May 1970, and the recent Agricultural Sector Review
Mission identified many promising livestock projects. Lowland sheep,
especially in the Jijiga area, highland sheep in the Gimba-Mehal-Meda area,
and beef cattle production in the Danakil plains are projects that look
promising. These projects would be essentially production-oriented. A
final decision has not yet been made on which project should be prepared
first. Since Ethiopia lacks the ability to implement all three simultaneously
such a decision is necessary.
2.        Foreign technical help would be required to help Ethiopia prepare
one of these projects. The extent of this requirement would depend on
future developments in Ethiopia, particularly on whether or not the present
substantial planning and project preparation capability is fostered,
encouraged and built upon or whether it is allowed to dissipate. In any
event, it is estimated that about 54 man months would be required in total.
3.        The expertise required would be approximately as follows:
Beef Cattle Production Specialists             7 man months
Sheep Production Specialist                    7 man months
Agricultural Economist                        12 man months
Sociologist                                    6 man months
Hydrologist                                    6 man months
Census Specialist                              2 man months
Pasture Specialist                             7 man months
Veterinarian                                   7 man months
Total                         54 man months
4.        Total cost is estimated at about US$400,000, including US$130,000
for aerial census work.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        Preliminary work would involve reaching agreement with Government
on the objectives of Government policy in these areas. The primary functiojn
of the project preparation team would be to prepare in the prescribed area
a technically, financially and economically sound project within the policy
framework specified by Government. Particular care would be required tc
identify the production unit -- private individuals, groups, entire
villages or tribes -- most suitable as a basis for development.



n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u                                                   ,,_j,irtr   .,~ Cal _
g                                                             .^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.E'0 .t.- E__ :''>: r  EL?'T: '    R. E  '
I!vesiment ad Operatin,- Zos-r
Unit
Cost             -----------------------yea---r-------_______________                    Total
Unit                 Units                  Eth$                1                 2                3                 4                 Cost
l; ES -VT'-' COSfS
Project :'anager ........................        no                     1                  90,000              90.0                0?.o             O              90.0               360.0
Deputy Pro,ject Manager .................        no                     1                  15,000              15.0             15.0              15. 0            15.0                60.O
Financial Officer ,,,,,,,,,,,,,                  no                     1                  90,000              90.0             90.0              90o.o            90.0               360.0
Deputy Financial Officer ...............         no                     1                  15,000              15.0             15.               15.0             15.0                60.0
Marketing Specialist .no                                                1                  90,000                -              90.0              9v.o0            90.0               270.0
Construction Officer .no                                                1                  70,000              70.0              10.0             70.0             70.0               280.0
Draftsman ...............................        no                     1                  12,000              10.0             10.0              10.0             10.0                40.0
Accounting Consultant Services                                                                                125.0            125.0              80.0                -               330.0
4-W.heel Drive ................,.,.              no                     2                  16,000              32.0               -                 -                 -                32.0
Sub-total      ,      ,      ,                                                                       447.0            505.0             400.0             380,0            1.792,q
Contingencies - Physical 10% ....                                    ,                                         44.7             50.5              46.0             38.0               179.2
Price 5.                                                                                     22.4              25.2             23.0              19.0                89.64
Total Investment Cost                                                                                514.1            580.7             529.0             437.0            2 060
--------------------year ---------------
OPERAiJfll' COSTS                                                                                                  1                 2                3                 4                 5-20
4-Vrieel Drive ..........    ...............     no                     2                    8,000             16.0             16.0              lo.0              16.0                 _
Secretary ........,.,,,...............           no                     1                  10,000              10.0             10.0              10.)              10.0                10.0
''ro;ect  ana-er ........................        no                     1                  17,500                 _-                                -                 -                 17.5
'~inlrctrA  'f-icei . ......................     no                     1                   17,500               -                 -                - -                                 1. S
Sub-total .......,..........                                                                          26.0              26.0             23.5              2-6.0               45.0
Continmenev - P>'sical 10 .............,                                                                        2. 6              2.      '       ' 2.               2.        4.5
te1:al Operatin., Costs  .28.                                                                                           2'.              28.               28.6                4v.5
V   r, n  ec-nilal eni Administrative Services  n. a'.'tiDn no I-ose
atta; e        e Varket and St ockroute )-partmen.' an. te
ila. -:Aer 'a   VP len and! Hite Shed De )artien-r.



SECOND LI\ LS rVCK DI:E.ldPMDJ.;, IPHOJiL I
Phasing ul Prol ctl 0.vuui,tlneI
Phasing of 1noent nnu                                                                                              Ph.sin.  of ]nogecnann
-------- -------- ---------------------V.-  -r- ---------------------
a                Z               _a_                          Total                                               I                _                  _               _             Total
Lfii
Headquarters Staffins 1'                                    514.1            580.7            529.0           437.0           2.060.8                                           n.                  .              na.             n.em
Market  nd Stockroate   v.vvses'
1. Technical and Administrative Services
a   iedqnar-e,                                   176.5            103.5           103.5           103.5             487.0                                           n.a.             na. no.                            na.              ms
b.  M      rketins Teams                         153.6            311.1            775.2            98.6             838.5                                           4                4                  4               '               16
c.  Mlintisnnea Unite                              7.0              7.0              7.0            14.0              35.0                                           1                 1                 1               2                5
Sub.total                                 337.1            421.6           385.7           216.1           1.360.5
a.tPrimary                                       134.3           249.5            268.7           268.6             921.1                                            7               13                 14             14                48
bk   Terminal                                     30.9             30.9            61.9            61.9              185.6                                           1                 1                 2               2                6
Sub-total                                 165.2            280.4           330.6           330.5           1.106.7
3.  St.rkorotes                                         735.3             944.9         1 419.7           820.4           3.920.3                                            1                3                  3              4                11
4.  LMi8 Trucking                                        145.0            145.0             71.5            _                362.5                                           2                2                  1                                5
Sioughter Facilities nd Hide Shed Cunponeni
1. T-chminm1 snd Administr-tive Services
s.  Headquarters                                132.5             103.5           103.5           103.5             443.0                                           n...             n...              n.. n...                          n.n.
bS Traini      F       i                          55.1             86.1            73.9            36.5             251.6                                           na.              na.               na.             n.in
C.  S~AujtrFnlte   n    ieBud                     7.                9943.0                         -209.9                                                            5                6                 3               -14
Sub-t.tel                                 262.6           279.5            222.4           140.0             904.5
2. ~lnoglter P-uilitiem an  Hide Sheds0
a.  Sl.Suhtre1abe   Model 5                       96.2            143.7           172.4           114.9             517.2                                           15               25                30200
b.  Siughterelbe   Model II                    128.7           321.7            428.9           343.1          1222.3                                             6               15                20              16                57
c.  SIlughterhou-e  _ Model III                  182.0           364.0            364.0           182.0           1.092.1                                            2                4                  4               2               12
Sub-tntel                                 396.9           829.4            965.3           640.0           2.831.6
Tncre-antsl Working Capital              383.0             394.0           233.0            -                980.9                                           n.7.             no.               n r.
Tote1 LMBZ                                              3.d7S 5          4j3*.i            i& 8           135326.9
1.  Pr~jnct Jeer  3tl.g.u,1                            4v03.            460.)             -                .:1)                                                                                                                                    .
RimSisi            It v  '   }                           9009 90.0                        090.                             360.0
Sutal Gu--run-t                           550.0            550.0             90.0            90.0          1.280.0
T.tu 1 Proje-c Cust                     3.40.2          4  425.          42_18.2         3,674.0          1.006
1.  Hannrh Developmert                                      100,2            348.7           497.0           296.6           1,242.5                                            1                2                  2               -                S
3   I'n0.uutn Trucking                                        _              -                145.0           2(7.1             36 .5                                            -                -                                 3                5
lotl AIDSH                                100.2            348.7           5421             5)4.           5
1'  Tc:uding stuHf  'pccicFiv  *.c.iac! c! he Nurke: ncd  Irn kruvc  or ISa1gIcr F             c) i=gr) d           Sd'.: P   -r.d              C
2/  Secnded tc LMB.
Nuccn.u..vo: ppSiCublO



ANNEX 11
ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit
(US$'000)
Estimated Disbursement
Project          End of                     Amount          Balance of
Year           Quarter                   Disbursed          Credit
1               0                           0               4,500
1                         100               4,400
2                         330               4,170
3                         560               3,940
4                         808               3,692
2               1                       1,120               3,380
2                      l,430                3,070
3                       1,740               2,760
4                       2,058               2,442
3               1                       2,390               2,110
2                       2,720               1,780
3                       3,050               1,h5o
4                       3,368               1,132
4               1                       3,65o                 850
2                       3,930                 570
3                       4,210                 290
4                       4,500                   0
April 25, 1972



ETHIOPIA
z
S                                                               SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Cash Flow From Project
(Eth$'000)
---------------Inflow--------------------                     ---------------------------------------Outflow--------------------------------
Government                                                                  Grant for
IDA        Cbntribution         LMB       1/      Total      Loans to      Grant to    Ranching  3   Feasibility         Debt Service        Total
Year      Credit       (Surplus)        Debt Service        Inflow        LMB          LM  2/      Specialist       Studies          IDA Credit        Outflow
1       1,858         1,254                 8             3,120       2,077         479             90             460                 14            3,120
2       2,875         1,165                27             4,067       2,925         557             90             460                 35            4,067
3       3,013            960               50             4,023       3,407          518            90              -                  58            4,073
4       2,604             77               71             2,752       2,135         449             90              -                  78            2,752
5         -               (1)              79                 78         -           -              -               -                  78                78
6          -          (1,154)           1,232                 78         -           _-                             -                  78                78
7         -          (1,154)            1,232                78          -           _                              -                  78                78
8         -           (1,154)           1,232                 78         -           -              -               -                  78                78
9          -          (1,154)           1,232                 78         -           -              -               -                  78                78
10          -          (1,154)           1,232                 78         -           -              -               -                  78                78
11          -          (1,050)           1,232                182         -           -              -               -                 182               182
12          -          (1,051)           1,232                181         -           -              -               -                 181               181
13          -          (1,052)           1,232                180                     -              -                -                180               180
14          -          (1,053)           1,232                179         -                          -                -                179               179
15          -          (1,053)           1,232                179         -                          -                -                179               179
16          -          (1,054)           1,232                178         -           -              -                -                178               178
17          -          (1,055)           1,232                177         -           -              -                -                177               177
18          -          (1,056)           1,232                176         -                          -                -                176               176
19          -          (1,057)           1,232                175         --                         -                -                175               175
20          -          (1,058)           1,232                174                     -              -                -                174               174
'/Loan term 20 years at 3/4 of 1% interest for the first five years and 8% thereafter.
2/ Government gives as a grant to LMB 75% of the cost of expatriates.
2/  Government gives as a grant 100% of the cost of Ranching Specialist.



AN= 3
Page I
axcNx  LIugMCK DEVEOMUT PROJECT
~~2%~tessfRetur
Category                                              aa12
0)m OPERATIONS
1. "Invst      n   ot
a. Headquarters Technical and
Administrative Services 4/              191.1.        179.7        i67.0         i44.O            -                                                        
b.  Market and Stockcroete Copoent         1;3011.6      1,713.9       2,130.5       1,289.0                         -----
C. Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed
Component.............,Jj4                          1.03.0       1,0             702.0-                                      ----
Sub-total ..............           ap7a         3a,ks.&   ~ ,0,             2.135.0                         -----
7.  I-ncrental Op-rtisg Costs
a. Headquarters TechnicaLl and
Administrative Services  g(...           28.6          28.6          28.6          28.6           49.5         49.5          49.5          119.5         4.9.5          49.5
b.  bIarkat and Stockroute Component         33355.5     1,330.3       2,056.8       2.694.3       2,761.2       2,703.0        2,644.6      2,616.2       2,616.2        2,616.2
0.Slaughter Facilities and Hide Sheqd
Component .138.5............                             L3       8118.8        1,4.1     141..i1.7.0                     1..y6         1,285.3       1,3o(.2        1,318.9
Sub-total .722.6........0.692,8                                2,9042       3,867.0        4,139.2       4,1275        6,101.7       3,951.0     3?970%6          3,9846
3.  Increentsl Reveue
, a. rkert-andi Shlckr.te Component..        317.1       1,102.0       2,170.5       3,286.9       4,062.9       '4,159.7      4,236.5      '4,294.0       4,352.0        4,352.0
b. Slaughter Fo.cilitieo and Ride Shed
Coeponeot .23...........                   .2         197.1       .24             8.1         148.6         1.86,3        1.216.4.      1.29.         1,33~4         1,349.5
Su,b-total .............             3 j         1.299.1      p.0LL    11.    i ,85.0     5,9.          5,3146.0      5,1182.9      5,593.7      5,687.4        5,701.5
4.  Net Incremental Cash Flow ......      2..C,460.3)    (3,416.3)   1f3.610.0)    11,a1SS0)              1,052.3       1, 218.3      1,381.2       1,642.7      1,716.8        1,716.8
5. Financial Rate of Return s.8.942
II.  Macket and Stuobroute Componet
1.Investment costs
a.  StO~kccrutes.......735.3                               944.9       1,419.7         8so.I.          ---                                                      
h.  Trucking.45.so                                         i45.0          n2.5          ------
c.  Macbets.1.....                            65 .2        280.4         33.           330.5           ---                                                    --
d.  Techniceal and Admiinitrativ
Service.0.............                  59.1         343.6         307.7         1381.1          ---                                                    --
Sub-total...........1I. 304.0                   1, 713.95     2,3.          1,~2. a9.                      ...            -             10               
S. I-cremental Opeamting Costs
a.  Stockrouts..  ...........                 45.9         152.4         304.3         1.28.1         464.6        467.6         '47o.1.       472.65        472.6          472.6
b.  Trucking..............                    30.6          91.8         137.7         153.0          153.0          91.8         30.6          -             -              -
C.  Mrkets ..............                     66.3         185,7         324.)      - 464.1           471.4        471.4         471.4         470.4         470.4          471.4
d. T,echnical and Administrativ
MA ico...........2......                ! 7           900.4      1. 22907'     1.4491         1,672.2       1,7.          1,672.2       1,672.2      1.h75.2        1,672.2
Sub-total............                555.5       1,230.3       2.0568       2.694,3        2,741.2       2,703.0       2.644,6     2j616j         2.616,2        2,616.2
3.  Incremental Reveu
a.  Stockcrutes............                    49.t        190.1         433.4         766.6          997.7      1,0814.5      1,167.5       1,2o0.6       1,217.0        1,217.0
b.  Trucking..............                    46.8         160.4         250.6         2814.0         384.0        170.11         56.8          -             -              -
c.Markets  ......       .22.......           0.2         75.         i.4.86.5     2.236.3        2.781,2       2,9014.8      3.022.2       3,093.11      3,135,0   ~ 3,035.0
Sub-total ..........       .        317Z.1       l1512.0      2,170.5       JLL8_6.g       4,062,9       4,15.7        4,236.5      42.0          4,352.0        4,352.0
4.  Net Incremental CAsh Flow ..........1.543.0)    (1.842.2)   (3.016.8)                   (696.4)       1,301.7       1.1456.7      [.591.9       1.677,8      1,735.8        1,735.8
5.  Fina-ial Rate of Return .  18.197.
TII.  Market and Stuchkuute Compoent Models
A.  Mocdel - cattleTrc
Cos-teu    ts..........               72.5          -                           -------
2.  Incremental OperatIng Costs ....          15.3          3o.6          30,6          30.6           ;o.6         -----
3.  Incremental Rtevenue ........4                          s 6.8         56.8          56.8           56.8         -----
4.  AIt Ic-enental. Cash Flow.....     (6:.4,)              26.2          26.2          26.2           26.2         -                           ---
5.  Fiunanial Rate of Return   22.8%
B.  Moe          r M arket%tP
17T6In,   4tNe OI. ...... ......              19.2                                      -------
S.  Incremental Operating Costs  ...           8.2            8.6          8.6           8,41           8.6           8.6           8.6          8.6           8.6            8.6
3.  Increme,ntal Revenue .8.......             1.4          37.0          38.6          40.1          141.8         113.6         43.6          4~.6          43.6           43.6
4.  Met Incremental Cush Flowv....             (6.0)         28.4         30.2          31,3           33.2          35.0          35.0         35,0          35.0           35.0
5.  Fin-nial Rate, of Return mey-  1500
C.  Model - Terminal Markt3
1.  Investen   Cot........                    30.9          -                           ------
2.  Incremental operating Costs...             8.5           9. 4          9. 4          9.11           9.4          9.11          9.14          9.41          9.41           9.14
3.  Incremental Revenue, .......n7.4                       142,9         350.0         157.6         165.5         173.7         173.7         173.7         173.7          173.7
4.  N~et Incremental Cash Flow .....          32.0         133.5        i140.6         148.2         156.          164.3         064.3         164.3         i64.3          164.3
5.  Financ.ial Rate of Return e over 100%0



ANNFK 13
Page 2
------------------ ._----------  _------   -- ____- -- -----_ _ _-____-- y-ar--------------------------------------------------------------~
Catergory                             L              2              .1                            5              63             7              8              _              10.20
.O {PERATTONS
rd. iS;.-3tter t'a..iLctceg 000 Hone Snea Soaiioeent -
1. Steresimesit Costs
a. Sla-ghter Facilities sed Hide Sheds.   396.9                829.4          965.3          640.0
b.  Technilal and Adminietrative                               201.6          144.4          62.o
Servsees .....64.6.. I       ,.64..2.0..  .                                              _                             _             _
Sub-total ........56....... .    581.5             1,031.0        1,109.7          702.0           -Z-             -                            _              _ -
2.  ln-remecvtriperating Cases
5.  ilnghter Facilitiie  end Hille SLeds.         12.2         123.1          341.6          591.2           754.6          789.2         818.9          845.2          864.8           878,8
b. Cec lacicl and Administrative
Services.                        ......   126.3           10.8          477.2          552.9          573.9          585.8          588.7          44o.1          460.1           44o.i.
S,b-t-tal ........ , .,. 138.5                       433.9          818.8        1,144.1        1,328.5        1,375.0   1         j407.6    1,285.3        1,30tt 9        1,318.9
a.   SEaoghier Facilities nod Dide Sheds.   23.2                197.1         530.9          896 1   7      ,i28,6       i,i663         1,246.4        1,299.7        1,335:4         1.349.5
4.  'iet T--cre   talc    nlse     6     ..h. ...............(69.)    (1,267.8)  (1,397.6)      (  948.o)         (199.9)         188.7)       (161.4)          14.4           30.5            30.6
5.      ...snenl h.at:e    Retlrn . negative
* .   irit*n   Fac1ijties & Hide Sied Zampanent kodels
A.  .ebdel I -OSleoghteeslab Weekly  ghresih
pot Abo.t 14 head  27
let.t Csts .................                  5.7           -                                            -                                                            
re-e- tal operating- Costs   .                5 . ........o.4  0.9          0.9            1.0            1.0            1.0            1.0            1.0            1.0             1.0
3.  I-creneni al  hevenne.6 . ........               .            i.6           1.7            1.8             1.9            2.0            2.0           2.0            2.0             2.0
I C e Iecrernental cas l flew            .        (5.3)           0.7            0.8           0.8             0.9            1.0            1.0           1.0            1.0             1.0
5      ancil RPte ol Ret-rn = 6.0i
r    bdei  i_ - Otauoctsrslah Weekly
Shred1 p,t Alet 80 Head  2/
t.      esn-ent chste        .7 .......o.....     21.4
2        e Tncementel u1pertin,g Costs . .......   1.1            5.5           5.7            6.o             6.2            6.2            7.0           7.0            7.0             7.0
3.  Ilorremesosiel Tevae--e .....  ..........      1.9           7.6            8.0            8,4             8.8           9.3            9.8            9.8            9.8             9.8
l Net Frcrec-tol Cash 4   ..  .........    (2o.6)                 2.1           2.3            2.4             2.6            3.1            2.8           2.8            2.8             2.8
5.  Ii'rl-cia  RPate of Retorn.- ii.i
'.  Model  2i1 - Sl-ght-rhoc.se Weekly
'iigo-,lp,t Abhat 1'0 Head  9/
1.  I-et-met  -t  .........91.0                                  -             -              -               -                            -              -              -               -
2.  iscre-e- tsl Operatieg Casts .   .......      -              25.1          27.8           29.5            30.7           3i.6           32.7          32.7           32.7            32.7
3.    nreeel Revene .............                 _             39.6           41.6           43.7            46.o          48.3           50.8           50.8           50.8            50.8
4.  Net ITcreeal Cash Pow .........    (91.03)                  14.5           i3.8           14.2            15.3           16.7          18.1           18.1           18.1            18.1
5.  Firarcial Rats of Retort    16.9%
T.  Model - Fattenimt  Ratch 3,500 ha
0.  Tn-e-tme-t Costs .       ........................   100.2         148.3           -              -               -              -             -              -              -               -
2.   I-crsa-etal Operating Cots .....       .........                   (2.4)         94.2           94.2            94.2         105.2           96.4           96.4           96.4            96.4
3    incr emental      Revenne       .        .          -             (4.7)         118.1          131.3           133.5         136.3          136.3          136.3          136.3           156.3
4I  Net Inremetal  ash F   .               ...... ..  (100.2)        (150.6)          23.9           37.1            39.3          31.1           39.9           39.9           39.9            39.9  4/
';.clcaotial Pat.e ohf Rstcrs .    13.0%
VTI    Mnrdel - Priyately-Operated  Calttle  Trees         
1.      etent   sts ................                      2            -              -              -               -             -              -              -              -               -
2.  'nerenectal Operatieg C.osts  .............          30.6           30.6          30.6           30.6            30.6
3.Tneersmenstai l Resenlle .0..........e.........   56.8           56.8          56.8           56.8            56.8
4.  .l.t ieeremsstal hash Flew.(46.3)                                  26.2           26.2           26.2           26.2
1.  hionneisl Rate af Retrn   43.10%
1/   ehchien  sod Admiolstrnsti-e  s-eiees at lsadq-art-s  in addttinn to tOat
of th,e Market and Stohkraote Department and the Slaughter Feilitio.s and
[lide Shed tep-rt-eet.
2/  Shows the marginal fianeieats of retarp.
Ti The fi.ascial roes of reetur  is negstir  be ..a.se the impro-ed hides tes-ating
frs the etshesis teff-rts of the as1-ghte- fasilitiss and hide shed teams
osraids the slaughtes  fasilities  gin me fia-neisi -eseue. to LM .
4/  In hear-S20  hen the cising  -attle is-et-sy ie iscleded the -e ise   Eth$195.2.
April 25, 1972



ANNEX 14
ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economic rate of return was calculated on the basis of data
shown in Appendix 14-1. Key assumptions and adjustments made were that:
(a)  operating costs would remain at current price levels
(including labor which was charged at the present wage
rates);
(b) fees charged by the LMB for the use of Project facilities
would remain at the same nominal level throughout the life
of the Project;
(c)  the current exchange rate is equal to the shadow exchange
rate;
(d)  almost a million improved hides would result annually
from the extension efforts of the slaughter facilities
and hide shed teams outside the Project slaughter
facilities and hide sheds;
(e)  beef, valued at Eth.$ 7.00/head would be saved on each
animal using the Project stockroutes; and
(f)  fees charged at slaughter facilities and hide sheds fully
reflect the economic benefits from the facilities.
2.        Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return would
be about 22%. Should no improved hides originate outside the Project
facilities, then the economic rate of return would drop to about 15%. On
balance, this Project carries a low risk that the economic benefits would
not be realized. However, there would be major organizational problems,
especially in staffing, to get the facilities built on schedule.






ETHIOPIA,
SECOND LI1VESTUCK D3EVEWOPSNT PROJECT
Summry S-osi. Rate of Retor  Calo-lation
(Eth$'000)
Category                                                                                                                                                 7                                                   t  5-19               ZO
INCREHE8TAL RENEFITS
1. PrLtyatkyNr8. -d Stokr..ot..
a.  Cattle.... .................                              166.6            642.6          1,387.4           2,270.8          2.781.8          2,925.3          3,049.2           3,144.4          3,192.0            3,192.0           3,192.0
6,.  Sheep .ed Goat. ..............33.9                                        130.4            273.3            436.8             531.4            557.9             381.8            599.5             608.8             608.8              608.8
.Ca,l..................4.2                                               16.2             47.2              79.8            120.5            126.6             133.0            137.6             139.7             139.7              139.7
D.  .      .................. asa42.0                                        120.0            204.0            288.0             208.0            288.0             288.0            288.0             288.0             288.0              288.0
2.  Narshallieg Yard........... ........-                                              -              4-                740.3             80.86            120.:5           161.2          1 161.:3           18 1.13           1 161.3           1 161.:3
3.  Tem,siel Karket........... ........71.4                                           214.3           435.7             736.2            908.9             954.3            993.5          1025.7            1042.1            1,42.1             1042.1
4.  Sl.oghter Faciliti.s amd Hide Sheds ........23.2                                  197.1            530.9            898.1          1,128.6           1,186.3          1,246.4           1,299.7          1,335.4            i,319.95          1,349.5
5.  Otha- SIproved Hid-1 ................-                                                                              350.0            800.0           1,000.0          1,200.0           1.500.0          2,800.0            1,800.0           1.800.0
6.  Trsmki.g......................46.8                                                160.4            364 .2           568.0            868.0             434.4            340.8             170.4             -                  - 
7.  P.tte.lnz Ranche........... .......                              Z-                (4.7)           108 .7           358.1            632.3            665.9             675.9             681.5            4 01.5             681.5             976.0
Sob-totl..................                                388.2          1,4763           3L514            6,026.1           7,840.1          8,27.U02         8,669.9           9.008.1           8,4.89 26 29-1. ,..
S CPEMEIrS1AI. OPERATING COSTS
1.  I'M operati........I.......722.6                                               1,692.8           2,904.2          3,867.0          4,139.2          4,127.0           4,101.7          3,951.0           3,970.6            3,984.6           3,984.6
2.  private Tr-oking ...........:::  ...                                               -                61.2            153.0            153.0             153.0            153.0              91.8            4-                  -                4;.
3.  F.tt-eis8 Ranches ..........                  ....                                 (2.4)            89.4            277.8            471.0            482.0             495.2            499.6             4862.0            482.048.
Sob-total.......                                          722.6          1,690.4          3,5.             4,297.8          4.763.2           4.762.5          4,749.9           4,4.             4,452.6            4,466.6446.
IN4VES TMENTS
ServLces.dq.tr  .h.la  dt.rt514.1I                                                 280.7            529.0            437.0              -                -                                  -                 -                 -                  -
2.  Markota and StckroteS. ........m.....                         ,3.              1,646.9          2,136.0          1,367.0                               .----
3.  SIavg hter Facilitle  a d Hide Sheds ........                   659.5           1,109.0          1,187.7            780.0-----                                                                                                 -
4.  Trorktg .....m................                                   145.0            145.0            217.5            217.5                               ------
5.  Fattenig9 R-.ches.2m..............                                90.2           438.7             587.0            386.6--- 
Sob-tota.1  .....I.............                         2764             3,920.3          4,657.4          3,8.1&I                                                                                                         
MET BENEFITS                                                       (3.080.9)         (4.134.4)        (4,360.8)        (1.459.8)         3,7.              3,516.7          3,920.0           4,465.7          4,9.                .9.                ,9.
Ecososic Rate of Rcto_ .21.52
1/  ft$0.00heod  f mea  is sved fr evry anmal tat ooo thed.ochoote
2/  Ioreoed  sSo  of mprved  isle coingfromosrSslotheslsohte  faclites nd hde thds
demostrtioceffct  f th  hIe shdc.Ioceooe  vave pr hde  stimtedat  th$2.00.






___________________________                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD  3865
E_                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETHIOPIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A F   F CAr0,                                                                 [.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ocation of Markets, Stock Routes, and Trucking  Routes
0>    T  f                             ,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/                        49                                       U    F'OT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1II'    I05 A1 T,   OR F
F TFI'.OFrlAIOCT [00L
1.                                                                   45   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I' I0 0 1 T E.I(TE
U:                                                                                                                 'E.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;:''-T O004!0004
SU~~~~~~~~~AN  (            .<-                              N-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1 E-                         ,E
A                                                     V'~~~~~~A
I  '~~~~~~~~~   OTOTV~~~~~~~~~L 
4F,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O-F
FT                                           -                        -4,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
,71~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ld y                                                                               C1 fAe
Ro.o        "Ft.  -~~~
A.
9                                                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z






_____________________ _____________________ _____________________ ____________BB R D                                       3386
.7,  ~~~~~~~,, ~~~ETHIOPIA
A F  tCA-                                                                                                          7           SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
~~~...                             . ~~~~~~~Location  of Slaughter Facilities
9,                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PL7997
9,,91               .                                '*9J      IlL   TI  S &~~~~~~~~~~~L  SEI)
-- -- ------~C,, 
I.  /                                                 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~       <'1       J-,
91779 LE.                         -
S   ti  D   A Z~~~~~~>    '~v' 4'-
7   171N                                                                                    SREPRJEC.   79997    97T
/                                                              N          4~~~~/
I               < A      4 2F          /."                                                9 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR  %A' A                       
V. /~/
UGANDA   -F
L~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-7                                                                                                                 '



