CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 365 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 2, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 365 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 2, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 2, 1973, between EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Parts A, B, C and D of the Project will be carried out by the Livestock
and Meat Board of the Borrower (hereinafter called LMB) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to LMB
a part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and LMB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "LMB" means the Livestock and Meat Board, established and operating
in accordance with Order No. 34 dated March 14, 1964 and Proclamation No. 212
dated March 14, 1964.


﻿4
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and LMB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement.
(c)   "Project Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and LMB pursuant to Section 3.0 1(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Financing Agreement.
(d)   "Eth $" means the currency of the Borrower.
(e)   "Order" means Order No. 34 dated March 14, 1964 providing for the
establishment of LMB.
(f)   "Proclamation" means Proclamation No. 212 of March 14, 1964,
defining the powers of LMB.
(g)   "Municipal Agreement" means an agreement in form and substance
approved by the Association providing for the respective rights and obligations
of LMB and a municipality of the Borrower with respect to a livestock market
or slaughter facility included under Part A.1 or Part C of the Project.
(h)   "Veterinary Agreement" means the agreement dated November 7,
1972, between LMB and the Department of Veterinary Services of the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture, regarding the furnishing of certain veterinary services by
said Department to LMB for purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE I
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association


﻿5
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a)   the goods and services required for Parts A, B, C, D.1(b), D.2(b) and
D.3(b) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.04
of the Project Agreement; and
(b)   vehicles and equipment required for Part F of the Project shall be
procured by the Borrower in accordance with its usual procedures for governmental
procurement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be July 15, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February
15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing February 15, 1983 and ending August 15, 2022, each installment
to and including the installment payable on August 15, 1992 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts E and F of the Project
and shall cause LMB to carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, all with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,


﻿6
economic, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall make available to LMB the equivalent of that part of the
proceeds of the Credit, and such additional funds, as shall be required in order
for LMB to carry out Parts A, B, C and D.l(b), D.2(b), D.3(b), D.4, D.5 and
D.6 of the Project under the Project Financing Agreement on terms and conditions
(including inter alia those set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement as such Schedule
may be modified from time to time by agreement between the -Borrower and the
Association) satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Project Financing
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, suspend,
terminate, abrogate or waive the Project Financing Agreement or any provision
thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its departments, agencies,
political subdivisions and agencies thereof, to take all reasonable action which shall
be necessary on their part to enable LMB to perform all of its obligations under
the Project Agreement and the Project Financing Agreement and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
work schedules for the Project, and any material modifications or amplifications
therec,f, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shal. and shall cause LMB to: (i) maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives
to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the


﻿7
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. Within six months of the date of effectiveness of this
Agreement, or by such other date as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall employ a ranching specialist acceptable
to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to
be seconded to LMB unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, and to be employed on a full-time basis in carrying out Part E of
the Project.
Section 3.05. In carrying out Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i)
consult with the Association with regard to the livestock development project or
projects to be prepared, the plan of operation, estimated costs and proposed
financing plan for each study or studies, and the organization that will carry out
the required study or studies therefor; and (ii) employ personnel and/or consultants
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part E and Part
F of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out Part E and Part F of the Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure that LMB
acquires title or rights satisfactory to the Association in respect of the stockroutes
and related resting/grazing areas included under Part A.2 of the Project, and that
each such stockroute is gazetted as a right-of-way.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, promptly as required, take all steps
necessary on its part to enable LMB to collect the fees and charges required to
satisfy the provisions of Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall not permit any of its political subdivisions
or agencies thereof to impose any taxes, fees or other levies on the use of livestock
markets, stockroutes or slaughter facilities financed under the Project, except such
fees or charges as are specifically approved by LMB.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, and shall cause its departments, agencies
and political subdivisions to, take all necessary steps to ensure that the obligations


﻿8
of the respective parties to each Municipal Agreement are carried out in accordance
with their respective terms.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to enable LMB
to carry out the provisions of Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accompliThed. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Devclopment Credit
Agreement, the performance by LMB of its obligations under the Pi oject Agreement
and the Project Financing Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and
expenditures of LMB and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of LMB and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by LMB of its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Project Financing Agreement.


﻿9
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement
and the Project Financing Agreement shall be free from any taxe on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the
part of LMB under the Project Agreement or the Project Financing Agreement.


﻿10
(b)   LMB shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by LMB or by others whereby
any of the property of LMB shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of LMB or for the
suspension of its operations.
(d)   The Order or the Proclamation or any provision thereof or any other
legislation presently in force and effect and governing the organization and
operations of LMB shall have been amended, suspended, modified or repealed
without the Association's prior agreement so as, in the opinion of the Association,
to materially and adversely affect LMB's operations or financial condition or LMB's
ability to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement or the Project
Financing Agreement.
(e)   The Project Financing Agreement or any material provision thereof
shall have been assigned, amended, suspended, terminated, abrogated or waived
without the prior approval of the Association.
(f)   The Veterinary Agreement, or any material provision thereof, shall have
been assigned, amended, suspended, terminated, abrogated or waived without the
prior approval of the Assocition.
(g)   The arrangements referred to in Section 7.01(c) of this Agreement
shall have been discontinued or modified in a material respect prior to the
completion of the Project without the consent of the Association.
(h)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that LMB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Project Financing Agreement.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following events are specified:
(a)   Any event specified in Section 6.02(a), (e), (f) or (g) of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and LMB.
(b)   Any event specified in Section 6.02(b), (c) or (d) of this Agreement
shall occur.


﻿11
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
LMB have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Project Financing Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and LMB, respectively, have been duly authorized by all
necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to the Association
for the training of personnel required to carry out Part D.3(a) of the Project and
to operate the facilities included under Part C of the Project.
(d)   LMB has employed qualified and experienced persons acceptable to
the Association and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association to
serve in the following positions: Project Manager; Head of the Market and
Stockroute Department; Head of the Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed
Department; Construction Officer; and Financial Officer.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, LMB, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of LMB in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Project Financing Agreement has been duly authorized by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and LMB, respectively,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and LMB in
accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date July 31, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿12
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.03, 3.06
and 3.09 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and
(f) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement and those of Section 6.03 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
MINFINANCE
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿13
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Wodajo Kifle
Autliorized Representatihe
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Civil Works Contracts
(a)   Markets, stock-          1,300,000           75% of total ex-
routes and mar-                              penditures
shalling yards
under Part A of
the Project
(b)   Slaughter facil-           650,000           75% of total ex-
ities and hide                               penditures
sheds under Part
C of the Project
II.   Vehicles and Equipment          710,000
under Parts A. B, C,
D.1(b), D.2(b) and
D.3(b) of the Project
(a)   Directly imported                            100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)   Locally procured                             75% of total ex-
penditures
III.  Technical and Adminis-          910,000
trative Assistance un-
der Parts D.4, D.5 and
E of the Project
(a)   Foreign personnel                            100% of foreign
or consultants                               expenditures
(b)   Local personnel or                           75% of total ex-
consultants                                  penditures


﻿15
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
IV.   Training of Project              80,000            75% of total ex-
Personnel                                          penditures
V.    Project Preparation             300,000
under Part F of the
Project
(a)   Consultants'                                 100% of foreign
costs, foreign                               expenditures
personnel and di-
rectly imported
equipment (in-
cluding vehicles)
(b)   Local personnel,                             75% of total ex-
locally procured                             penditures
equipment (includ-
ing vehicles) and
other local expend-
itures
VI.   Unallocated                    1,050,000
TOTAL              5,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:


﻿16
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category III on account of expenditures
incurred after July 15, 1972 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $30,000;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes;
(c)   expenditures for investments on any stockroute included under Part
A.2 of the Project unless evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been
furnished to the Association that (i) LMB has legal title or other rights satisfactory
to the Association in and to such stockroute and related resting/grazing areas; and
(ii) the right-of-way of such stockroute has been gazetted;
(d)   expenditures under Category III for any staff member or consultant
unless and until the terms and conditions of his employment shall have been
approved by the Association;
(e)   expenditures under Category IV unless and until the Association shall
have approved the training program for which reimbursement is sought; and
(f)   expenditures under Category V, unless and until the Association shall
have approved (i) the livestock development project or projects to be prepared,
the plan of operation, estimated costs and proposed financing plan for each study
or studies, and the organization (if other than LMB or the Borrower's Ministry
of Agriculture) that will carry out the required study or studies therefor; and (ii)
the personnel and/or consultants who will carry out such studies.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above


﻿17
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association shall have reasonably    determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under any Category
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is intended to improve livestock movement, marketing
and slaughter facilities, is part of the Borrower's program of livestock development
and consists of the following Parts:
Part A.     Markets and Stockroutes
The provision of an integrated market and stockroute system, at locations
to be agreed upon between the Borrower, LMB and the Association, including:
1.    The construction of about 48 primary markets and 6 terminal markets
including for each market, yards, pens, simple livestock handling
facilities, a sale ring, office building, fodder store, watering facilities,
and the provision of livestock weighing scales and handling equipment,
and for each terminal market, perimeter fencing and electric lighting
connections; and for the Jijiga area, an office and staff housing for
the marketing teams.
2.    The development of about 2,500 km         of stockroutes, including
construction of fenced and watered resting areas at intervals of about
25 km along such routes, with enclosed grazing at a majority of such
areas, and including, for each such area as required, bush clearing,
fencing, staff housing, shelters and fodder stores, spray races, boreholes,
wells, stock ponds, and provision of water pumping and supply
equipment, mobile spraying equipment and start-up stock of spraying
fluid.
3.    The construction of marshalling yards on the railway at Dire Dawa,
with maximum capacity of about 4,000 sheep and 600 herd of cattle,
including construction of a stone perimeter wall, gates, offices, stores,
spraying and dipping facilities, an equipped borehole and water
distribution system and provision of veterinary and laboratory
equipment, electric security lighting, radio telephone, weighing scales,
office furniture, and related equipment.
Part B.     Cattle Trucks
The purchase and operation by LMB, on a pilot basis, of about five cattle
trucks to be operated on the roads leading from the ends of stockroutes to terminal
markets.


﻿19
Part C.     Slaughter Facilities and Hide Sheds
The construction of about 159 slaughter facilities at selected municipal
centers to be agreed upon between the Borrower, LMB and the Association,
including for each facility, fencing, gates, buildings, simple slaughter equipment,
water installation, cattle pens, and hide sheds and frames, and for the larger
facilities, the provision of vehicles for meat delivery.
Part D.     Technical and Administrative Assistance; Training
The provision of technical and administrative assistance and training as
follows:
1.   Marketing Teams
(a)   The provision of about 16 marketing teams suitably staffed to
operate the markets included under Part A.1 of the Project.
(b)   The provision of vehicles and equipment as required by the
marketing teams in connection with the operation of the markets
included under Part A.1 of the Project.
2.    Mobile Maintenance Teams
(a)   The provision of about five mobile maintenance teams, suitably
staffed to maintain the markets, stockroutes and marshalling
yards included under Part A of the Project.
(b)   The provision  of equipment as required     by the mobile
maintenance teams in connection with the maintenance of the
markets, stockroutes and marshalling yards included under Part
A of the Project.
3.    Hide Shed Teams
(a)   The provision of about 14 hide shed teams, suitably staffed to
operate and maintain the slaughter facilities and hide sheds
included under Part C of the Project, and to demonstrate
improved flaying and hide preparation techniques.
(b)   The provision of vehicles and equipment for use by the hide
shed teams in connection with the operation and maintenance
of the slaughter facilities and hide sheds included under Part
C of the Project and its extension activities.


﻿20
4.   LMB Staffing
The staffing, over a period of about four years (except as otherwise
indicated), of the following positions within LMB:
(a)   Head of the Market and Stockroute Department;
(b)  Head of the Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Department; and
(c)  Project Manager and his Deputy (if any), Financial Officer and
his Deputy, Export Marketing Specialist (for about ihree years),
Construction Officer, and Draftsman.
5.   Accounting Consultants
The employment of accounting consultants to assist LMB in the design
and introduction of an effective accounting system with respect to
expenditures under the Project and with respect to the accounts of
LMB as a whole.
6.    Training of Project Personnel
Training of Project personnel under programs to be approved by the
Association.
Part E.    Ranching Specialist
The employment over a period of about four years of a ranching specialist
to assist in the preparation of development plans for fattening ranches and to assist
ranchers in the implementation of such plans.
Part F.    Project P'eparation
The preparation of a future livestock development project or projects,
including the provision of equipment and the employment of personnel or
consultants to assist therein.
The Project is expected to be completed by January 15, 1977.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of Project
Financing Agreement
1.   Subject to paragraph 3 below, the Borrower shall relend to LMB the
equivalent of that part of the proceeds of the Credit which shall be withdrawn
for expenditures made or to be made by LMB under Parts A, B, C and D.1(b),
D.2(b), D.3(b), D.4, D.5 and D.6 of the Project, for a period of twenty (20) years,
including a grace period of five (5) years, at an interest rate of 3/4 of 1% per
annum during the first five years and at an interest rate of 8% per annum thereafter
on amounts withdrawn and outstanding.
2.    In addition to the part of the proceeds of the Credit made available
to LMB under paragraph I above, and subject to paragraph 3 below, the Borrower
shall make available to LMB, on terms and conditions not less favorable to LMB
than those set forth in paragraph 1 above, the equivalent of the difference between
the amounts relent to LMB under such paragraph 1, and the total amount of
expenditures made or to be made by LMB under Parts A, B, C and D. 1(b), D.2(b),
D.3(b), D.4, D.5 and D.6 of the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, the Borrower
shall make available to LMB in the form of a grant, the total amount of foreign
expenditures made or to be made by LMB under Part D.4 of the Project.
4.    The exchange risk under paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be borne by the
Borrower.


