CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 365 ET
Project Agreement
(Second Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
LIVESTOCK AND MEAT BOARD
DATED APRIL 2, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 365 ET
Project Agreement
(Second Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
LIVESTOCK AND MEAT BOARD
DATED APRIL 2, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 2, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association), and
LIVESTOCK AND MEAT BOARD (hereinafter called LMB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Empire of Ethiopia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that LMB agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Project Financing Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and LMB, a part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to LMB on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS LMB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) LMB shall carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and
engineering, economic and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be


﻿4
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   In carrying out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, LMB shall, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, at all times follow such operating policies
and procedures as are set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be modified from time to time by agreement between the Association and
LMB.
Section 2.02. In carrying out Part D.5 of the Project, LMB shall, by a date
not later than 90 days after the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective
in accordance with Section 10.03 of the General Conditions, or by such later date
as shall be agreed to by the Association, employ accounting consultants acceptable
to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LMB shall
employ contractors for carrying out Parts A and C of the Project (other than
for borehole drilling and test pumping, which may be carried out by the Borrower's
Ministry of Mines or its National Water Resources Commission).
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for Parts A, B, C, D.1(b), D.2(b) and D.3(b) of the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis
of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) LMB undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the portion of
the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by LMB to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to LMB by the Borrower
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 2.06. (a) LMB shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, and any material


﻿5
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   LMB shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the progress of
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the portion of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in such
Parts of the Project; (ii) without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.03
of this Agreement, enable the Association's representatives to inspect Parts A, B,
C and D of the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts A, B, C and D of
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to
it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds and the administration,
operations and financial condition of LMB.
Section 2.07. LMB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Project
Financing Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LMB shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Project Financing Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) The markets, stockroutes and slaughter facilities included
under Parts A and C of the Project shall be constructed at such locations as are
agreed upon from time to time between the Borrower, LMB and the Association.
(b)   The cattle trucks provided under Part B of the Project shall be operated
on such routes as are agreed upon from time to time between the Association
and LMB.
Section 2.09. LMB shall actively encourage private trucking operators to take
over cattle trucking routes operated by LMB under Part B of the Project,. and
at such time as such cattle trucking routes are adequately served by such private
operators, LMB shall (during their reasonable lifetime) utilize the trucks provided
under Part B of the Project to initiate cattle trucking services on trucking routes
not already served by private trucking operators.
Section 2.10. LMB shall take all necessary steps (i) to obtain legal title or
other rights satisfactory to the Association in and to the stockroutes and related
resting/grazing areas included under Part A.2 of the Project; and (ii) to ensure
that each of the said stockroutes is gazetted as a right-of-way.


﻿6                                              Xl
Section 2.11. To assess the impact of the Project, LMB shall: (i) record
the weight losses of livestock on stockroutes included under Part A of the Project,
using a sampling technique acceptable to the Association, and compare these with
the losses now known to take place; and (ii) record the number of improved hides
exported annually.
Section 2.12. LMB shall take all necessary steps, including if appropriate
the carrying out of a program for the licensing of livestock markets within the
regions served by the market facilities provided under the Project, to ensure that
market facilities will meet standards acceptable to LMB and to ensure coordination
of livestock marketing within the territories of the Borrower in accordance with
sound marketing practices.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of LMB
Section 3.01. LMB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 3.02. LMB shall: (i) at all times operate the facilities constructed
under Parts A and C of the Project and (during their reasonable lifetime) the trucks
provided under Part B of the Project, in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, economic, engineering and agricultural practices, under the supervision
of qualified, experienced and competent management assisted by experienced and
competent staff in adequate number; (ii) adequately maintain all the equipment
and fixed assets relevant or necessary to the carrying out of the Project and the
operation of the facilities provided under the Project and promptly make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof; and (iii) promptly take all requisite steps
on its part to acquire and retain all such land, interests in land and properties
and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
as shall be, from time to time, necessary or useful in the conduct of its operations.
Section 3.03. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the various technical,
administrative and financial aspects of the Project, LMB shall, until the completion
of the Project, and in accordance with Schedule 2 to this Agreement as such
Schedule may be modified from time to time by agreement between the Association
and LMB, employ qualified and experienced persons acceptable to the Association
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to fill the following
positions: Project Manager; Head of the Market and Stockroute Department; Head
of Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Department; Construction Officer; and
Financial Officer.


﻿7
(b)   LMB shall (i) employ, by a date not later than eighteen months after
the date of this Agreement or such later date as shall be agreed to by the
Association, a qualified and experienced person to serve in the position of Export
Marketing Specialist, with such functions and responsibilities as are set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) consult with the Association on the
qualifications and experience of the person proposed and the terms of reference
and terms and conditions of his employment, sufficiently in advance of any
appointment for the Association's comments to be considered.
Section 3.04. With respect to any of the positions referred to in Section
3.03 (other than Construction Officer) that are filled by non-Ethiopians, LMB shall
employ Ethiopians to serve as their deputies, with a view to their eventually taking
over such positions.
Section 3.05. LMB shall exercise its rights under the Veterinary Agreement
and under each Municipal Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Association and LMB and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LMB shall not
assign, amend, suspend, terminate, abrogate or waive the Veterinary Agreement,
any Municipal Agreement, or any provision of the Veterinary Agreement or of
any Municipal Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. LMB shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. LMB shall (i) maintain separate accounts in respect of the
Project; (ii) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the
Association  such  other information   concerning the accounts and financial
statements of LMB and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿8
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LMB shall
take all steps necessary to collect fees and charges for the use of markets,
stockroutes, slaughter facilities, trucks and other services or facilities furnished by
LMB under the Project, at such levels as will provide revenues to LMB sufficient
(a) to cover, in respect of such services and facilities, operating expenses, adequate
maintenance and depreciation, interest and other charges on debt, and taxes (if
any); (b) to meet repayment on long-term indebtedness incurred in connection
with such services and facilities to the extent that such repayment exceeds provision
for depreciation; and (c) to provide a reasonable margin for contingencies.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and LMB shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and LMB shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of LMB and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and LMB shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance of their obligations
under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and LMB of their
respective obligations under the Project Financing Agreement.
Section 5.03. LMB shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of LMB and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of LMB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿9
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly so notify LMB of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For LMB:
Livestock and Meat Board
P.O. Box 1052
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia


﻿10
Cable address:
YESEGABOARD
Addis Ababa
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of LMB may be taken or executed by the General Manager of LMB or such other
person or persons as the Board of Directors of LMB shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. LMB shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of LMB, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by LMB pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
LIVESTOCK AND MEAT BOARD
By /s / Teferra Wolde-Semait
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
1.    Contracts for civil works or for the purchase of vehicles or equipment shall
have individual items grouped in a manner to achieve the lowest possible price
consistent with sound technical practices.
2.    With respect to any contract for vehicles and/or equipment included in
Category II of the table set out in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement, estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, LMB shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by LMB to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified and LMB shall make such additions to or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, LMB shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of th? advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, LMB shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Head of the Market and
Stockroute Department for proposed contracts included under Parts A, B, D.1 and
D.2 of the Project, and by the Head of the Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed
Department for proposed contracts included under Parts C and D.3 of the Project,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with their
recommendations for the award and the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement,
promptly inform LMB and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿12
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
3.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the following procedures
will be applicable with respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category I and for vehicles and equipment included under Category II which are
not subject to the requirements of paragraph 2 of this Schedule:
(a)   For equipment contracts estimated at the equivalent of $4,000 or
more, and for all civil works contracts, invitations to tender shall be published
in at least three consecutive issues of two daily newspapers in Ethiopia and in
each of the countries contiguous to Ethiopia.
(b)   For equipment contracts estimated at the equivalent of $1,000 or more
but less than $4,000, at least three quotations shall be obtained and evaluated.
(c)   Each proposed contract included under Parts A, B, D.1 and D.2 of
the Project shall be evaluated by the Head of the Market and Stockroute
Department. Each proposed contract included under Parts C and D.3 of the Project
shall be evaluated by the Head of the Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed
Department.
(d)   The award of contracts pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) of
this paragraph 3 shall be made to the bidder whose bid has been determined to
be the lowest evaluated bid and who meets the appropriate standards of capability
and financial responsibility. For the purpose of determining the lowest evaluated
bid, factors other than price, such as the time of completion of construction or
other work, the efficiency and reliability of the equipment, the time of its delivery
and the availability of service and spare parts will also be taken into consideration.
(e)   LMB shall, promptly after the contract is awarded, furnish to the
Association two conformed copies of the contract as well as a copy of the record
of public opening of the bids, the bid evaluation report and recommendations for
award by the Head of the Market and Stockroute Department for contracts included
under Part A of the Project and by the Head of the Slaughter Facilities and Hide
Shed Department for contracts included under Part C of the Project, and a
statement of the reasons for any departure from such recommendations. The


﻿13
Association shall promptly inform LMB if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.04 of this Agreement and state the reasons for such determination.
(f)   LMB shall request the Association's prior approval for any proposed
change in a civil works contract involving an increase in costs of 10% or more
of the contract sum together with an explanation of the proposed change.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Operating Policies and Procedures of LMB
A.    Organization of LMB
The chief executive of LMB is the General Manager. In addition to the
existing departments of LMB, there will be established, in order to implement the
Project, a Project Unit under the direction of the Project Manager. The existing
Accounts Department will be responsible for the Project accounts. Within the
Project Unit there will be three units with the following responsibilities:
(a)   The Market and Stockroute Department, under the direction of the
Head of the Market and Stockroute Department, will be responsible for on-the-job
training of the marketing teams and operation of the livestock markets, stockroutes,
marshalling yards, mobile maintenance units and cattle trucks.
(b)   The Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Department, under the direction
of the Head of the Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Department, will be
responsible for the training of staff and the operation of the slaughter facilities
and hide sheds and the slaughter facilities and hide shed teams.
(c)   The Construction Unit, under the direction of the Construction Officer,
will be responsible for the planning and phasing of construction works including
the preparation of detailed drawings, bills of quantities, arrangements with
contractors and the supervision of work.
B.    Project Management
1.    Under the direction of the General Manager:
(a)   the Financial Officer will have the following responsibilities in relation
to staff employed or to be employed within the Accounts Department; and
(b)   the Head of the Market and Stockroute Department, the Head of the
Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Department and the Construction Officer, under
the supervision of the Project Manager, will have the following responsibilities in
relation to staff employed or to be employed within their respective Departments:
(i)         coordinating the functions of their respective Departments with
those of other Departments in order to achieve the objectives
of the Project;


﻿I
15
(ii)        selecting, promoting, suspending and removing personnel within
their Departments in accordance with applicable civil service
regulations; and
(iii)       prescribing the duties and responsibilities of and    training
technical staff within their Departments.
2.    The Project Manager will be responsible, under the direction of the
General Manager, for direction of the Project Unit in carrying out its functions
as defined in Part A of this Schedule. He shall have the following specific
responsibilities:
(a)   advising the General Manager on all matters affecting the execution
of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project; and
(b)   coordinating and administering LMB's activities in relation to the
execution of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project.
3.    The Head    of the Market and Stockroute Department will be
responsible, under the direction of the Project Manager, for the direction of the
Market and Stockroute Department in carrying out its functions as defined in
paragraph (a) of Part A of this Schedule. He shall have the following specific
responsibilities:
(a)   advising the Project Manager on all matters affecting the execution
of Parts A, B, D.1 and D.2 of the Project;
(b)   supervising LMB's activities in relation to the execution of Parts A,
B, D.1 and D.2 of the Project; and
(c)   preparing the annual operating budget for the Market and Stockroute
Department and, subject to the approval of the Project Manager, authorizing
expenditures thereunder for the execution of Parts A, B, D. 1 and D.2 of the Project.
4.    The Head of the Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Department will
be responsible, under the direction of the Project Manager, for the direction of
the Slaughter Facilities and Hide Shed Department in carrying out its functions
as defined in paragraph (b) of Part A of this Schedule. He shall have the following
specific responsibilities:
(a)   advising the Project Manager on all matters affecting the execution
of Parts C and D.3 of the Project;


﻿16
(b)   supervising LMB's activities in relation to the execution of Parts C
and D.3 of the Project; and
(c)   preparing the annual operating budget for the Slaughter Facilities and
Hide Shed Department and, subject to the approval of the Project Manager,
authorizing expenditures thereunder for the execution of Parts C and D.3 of the
Project.
5.    The Construction Officer will be responsible, under the direction of
the Project Manager, for the direction of the Construction Unit in carrying out
its functions as defined in paragraph (c) of Part A of this Schedule.
6.    The Financial Officer will be responsible, under the direction of the
General Manager, for direction of the Accounts Department in carrying out its
responsibility for management of all financial aspects of LMB's operations.
7.    The Export Marketing Specialist will, under the direction of the Head
of the External Marketing Department, be responsible for investigating ways of
increasing the export value of Ethiopian livestock products with particular reference
to hides and skins and recommending suitable market arrangements.


