                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 26246-BU

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (IDA-33370 PPFI-Q1690)

                                          ON A

                                        CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35.0 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                               GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI

                        FOR EMERGENCY ECONOMIC RECOVERY




                                     APRIL 27, 2004




Africa Country Department 9
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (PREM 3)

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective April 30 - May 28, 2002)

                                          Currency Unit =            Burundi Franc (BuF)
                                                   SDR 1 = US$ 1.26543 (April 30, 2002)
                                                US$ 1.00 = BuF 853.50 (May 28, 2002)

                                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                             January 1-December 31

                                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                   African Development Bank
AGETIP                 Agence d'Execution de Travaux d'Interets Publics
AIDS                   Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome
APL                    Adaptable Program Loan
BPE                    Bureau Projet Education
BRB                    Banque de la Republique du Burundi (Central Bank)
BURSAP II              Burundi Social Action Project II
CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
CAMEBU                Centrale d'Achat des Medicaments du Burundi
COMESA                 Common Market for Eastern and Southern African States
COPED                  Conseil Pour L'Education et le Developpement
COTEBU                 Complexe Textile Burundi
CTB                    Cooperation Technique Belge
CWIQ                   Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DRC                    Democratic Republic of Congo
EAP                    Emergency Assistance Project
EERC                   Emergency Economic Recovery Credit
ERC                    Emergency Recovery Credit
EU                     European Union
FAO                    Food and Agricultural Organization
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
GNP                    Gross National Product
GTS                    Government Transitional Strategy
HIV                    Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IDA                    International Development Association
HIPC                   Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IMF                    International Monetary Fund
ISABU                  Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi
LCA                    Local Currency Account
LIFT                   Leveraged Insurance for Trade
LMTC                   Lutte Contre les Maladies Transmissibles et Carentielles
OAU                    Organization of African Unity
ONAPHA                 Office National Pharmaceutique
PCU                    Post-Conflict Unit
PRDMR                  Programme de Relance de Developpement du Monde Rural
PREBU                  Programme de Rehabilitation du Burundi
PROCOBU      Production Commerciale du Burundi
PRSP                   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAC                    Quality Assurance Control
SDR                    Special Drawing Rights
SME                    Small and Medium-sized Enterprise
TSS                    Transitional Support Strategy
UNHCR                  United Nations High Commission for Refugees


                                        Vice President:            C. Madavo
                                     Country Director              E. Mbi
                                       Sector Manager              C. Atta Mills
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                        H. Fofack, Sr. Economist
                                                                    E. Nelson, Sr. Economist

                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24
Annex 8. Consolidated Summary of Assessment                                      25
Annex 9. Withdrawal/disbursement of Proceeds Following Tranche Releases          26
Annex 10. Macroeconomic Indicators                                               27
Annex 11. Additional. Borrower Contribution to ICR -- French Version             28

Project ID: P064556                                                  Project Name: Emergency Economic Recovery Credit
Team Leader: Eric R. Nelson                                          TL Unit: AFTP3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 27, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Emergency Economic Recovery Credit                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-33370; PPFI-Q1690
   Country/Department: BURUNDI                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (20%); Health (20%);
                            General education sector (20%); Housing construction (20%);
                            General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (20%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P); Other social
                            development (P); HIV/AIDS (S); Education for all (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/08/1999                                     Effective: 06/14/2000                06/14/2000
     Appraisal: 03/15/1999                                         MTR: 11/01/2001                  03/15/2002
      Approval: 04/25/2000                                      Closing: 04/30/2002                 10/30/2002



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Emmanuel Mbi                                   Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:                 Cadman Atta Mills                              Luca Barbone
Team Leader at ICR:             Eric Nelson                                    Eric Nelson
ICR Primary Author:             John W. Otieno


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1    The development objective of the Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (EERC) was to provide
critical balance of payments support in an early post-conflict context, with the goal of providing resources
to restore key imports and essential social services in a war-ravaged economy. The need to address the twin
problems of acute shortage of foreign reserves and declining standards of living was recognized as an
important element in the implementation of EERC in the post conflict period in Burundi. The program was
designed to assist in the stabilization of the economy and recovery of the private sector. It also supported
government efforts at rehabilitating health, education, agriculture and infrastructure as well as resettlement
and reinsertion of refugees and internally displaced persons.

3.1.2    The EERC in the amount of $35 million equivalent was approved by the Executive Directors on
May 8, 2000 following extensive borrower participation in its preparation. An initial tranche of about
US$15.0 million was disbursed upon fulfillment of the conditions for credit effectiveness, and within less
than six months (by mid-June, 2000) about US$ 30.0 million or 87.0 percent of the Credit amount had been
disbursed.

Country Context

3.1.3    The objectives of the EERC for Burundi need to be assessed in the context of political, economic
and institutional conditions prevailing in the country before the IDA credit was implemented. A detailed
presentation of the political, economic and the institutional context of the EERC is provided in the last
section of this document, titled Additional Information " Country Background" and in EERC Technical
Annex-Report No.T 7366 BU (March 23, 2000). Burundi was at an early stage of transition from a serious
political crisis, marked by civil war in which thousands of people were killed or fled to neighboring
countries. Production entities were also looted and economic and social infrastructure, particularly in
health, education and agricultural sectors was badly damaged or destroyed. Ethnic tensions remained acute
as the international community coalesced to promote peace and political stability in the war-torn country.
These developments, together with the effects of trade sanctions imposed on Burundi from 1996-1999 by
regional governments, resulted in the near-collapse of the economy. During the 1993-1999 civil strife the
production of coffee, the main export product, collapsed and real GDP declined by 15 percent; industrial
output declined by 60 percent in terms of value added; and foreign exchange reserves fell precipitously,
from US$ 215.0 million to US$7.0 million (equivalent to 8 days of import cover compared to 8 months in
the pre-crisis period). Arrears on debt service on domestic and external debt also increased significantly.
Parallel to the decline of the economy, social indicators in Burundi worsened considerably. Governance
infrastructure was seriously weakened as the country remained sharply divided along ethnic lines; the need
for a political system based on the rule of law, transparency and accountability was greater than ever
before, particularly if foreign investment and development assistance was to be encouraged. Thus, the
EERC constituted an important instrument for promoting economic recovery, social development and
stability. The lifting of the economic sanctions in 1999 opened the door for resumption of donor activities
and provided further stimulus for the EERC.

3.1.4    The EERC was part of a multifaceted international effort to stabilize the Burundian economy in the
aftermath of political turmoil and economic crisis. It was consistent with the Government's economic
recovery strategy as well as the Bank's Interim Strategy, which emphasized a three-pronged approach to
assist Burundi, comprising support for       rehabilitating economic and social infrastructure, promoting
employment, and financing essential imports to jump-start the economy and stimulate the private sector. In



                                                     - 2 -

addition to IDA, other multilateral institutions provided balance of payments support during the early
post-conflict period in Burundi in parallel with the EERC. These include the European Union (under the
Stabex facility and a previously suspended structural adjustment program) and the IMF under its
Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance policy. The various aspects of the IDA Credit, its implementation and
performance assessment are presented in the remaining sections of this report.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives remained unchanged; project design was not modified during the duration of
the credit.

3.3 Original Components:
The various components comprised (a) economic stabilization and recovery and (b) rehabilitation of
economic and social infrastructure. Counterpart fund resources generated by the Credit were allocated to
priority areas including health, education, agriculture, reintegration and resettlement of displaced persons
and returning refugees, and settlement of past due government debt to private sector suppliers. Resources
were also allocated to the Public Expenditure Review. Audit, project administration and management
functions were also supported. The key components of the project were designed with substantial
participation of the Borrower.

3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not modified during the implementation phase.

EERC Program Design

3.4.1   In terms of both conception and operational modalities, the EERC was designed as a
quick-disbursing balance of payments support credit, intended to stabilize the economy and to provide
additional resources for economic recovery. Accordingly, the EERC was designed to implement activities at
the macro and sector levels, to achieve economic stabilization and sectoral rehabilitation as well as human
resettlement and reintegration. Activities at the macroeconomic level were intended to achieve key
objectives, including (a) improving the efficiency and transparency of foreign exchange allocation through
the adoption of a market-based foreign exchange allocation system, (b) improving the environment for
private sector development by encouraging production, trade and investment through increased availability
of foreign exchange resources, and (c) increasing liquidity to further stimulate private sector activity
through the settlement of past due obligations by the Government to its suppliers. At the sector level, the
sale of foreign exchange to the private sector generated local currency or counterpart funds needed to
finance social expenditures with a strong poverty alleviation focus in the priority areas of health, education
and resettlement as well as infrastructure rehabilitation, particularly in the agricultural sector.

3.4.2   Appropriate implementation mechanisms were put in place to ensure a timely and smooth
execution of the EERC. These included the need to fulfill conditions precedent to Credit effectiveness (as
defined in the Development Credit Agreement), namely: (a) the establishment of a Credit Account or a
Special Account with the Bank of Burundi, to which Credit proceeds would be disbursed; (b) the
establishment of a Local Currency Account, to which counterpart funds resulting from auction sales of
foreign currency would be deposited and (c) the formulation of operating or program manuals, comprising
a Program Implementation Manual, a Foreign Exchange Auction Market Manual and a Local Currency
Account Manual, defining the rules and procedures governing the operations of the various implementation
mechanisms.

3.4.3   The implementation of EERC was underpinned by (a) the adoption of appropriate procurement



                                                     - 3 -

procedures governing the purchase of goods and services required for Program implementation and (b)
setting up appropriate mechanisms (i.e. Steering and Policy Committee and Technical Implementation
Committee at the borrower level) designed to coordinate and implement program implementation with the
participation of sector ministries and representatives of the private sector and NGOs.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was rated as satisfactory because of (i) consistency of objectives with the Bank's
Interim Strategy and Government's priorities for poverty alleviation; (ii) incorporation of experiences and
lessons learned under the previous Emergency Reintegration and Recovery Credit; (iii) the incorporation of
lessons learned from other countries affected by conflicts such as Rwanda and the Balkans; and (iv)
flexibility of Credit design, taking into account institutional constraints and risks and minimizing pressure
on scarce borrower implementation capacities. The EERC was one of the three operations forming pillars
of the Interim Strategy. It drew upon the Bank's experience in dealing with conflict and post-conflict
situations to curb further deterioration in socio-economic conditions, stabilize the economy and foster
durable peace. The design of the EERC also benefited from extensive discussions at various stages both
within and outside the Bank. (Refer to section 10 of this report for additional information).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The credit was rated as satisfactory in terms of its outcome and achievement of its development objectives.
Indicators for assessing EERC performance included the timeliness of making foreign exchange resources
available to the private sector operators to procure essential imports; and the generation of counterpart
funds to support essential social services, resettlement of refugees and to jump-start the economy. Outside
observers and analysts agree that the overall impact of the EERC is doubly positive in that, in its absence,
the economy would have collapsed.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1    The EERC objectives set at appraisal were, to a large extent, realized. The outputs and outcomes
envisaged under the Program have been realized and are being sustained.

Macroeconomic and Public Finance Framework

4.2.2    Macroeconomic management was generally satisfactory. Economic performance was in line with
the Government's reform program supported under the IMF Post-Conflict Assistance Program.
Improvements were visible in a number of key areas. First, real GDP growth rose to 2.1 percent in 2001
and to 4.5 percent in 2002, reversing two years of contraction. Second, the level of foreign exchange
reserves rose from one week of import coverage to reach the equivalent of three months of imports in 2000
and maintained and increased this level in the following years. Third, the rate of inflation remained below
target, at 3.5 percent per annum in 2002 while the budget deficit was reduced from 7.2 percent of GDP in
2001 to 5.7 percent of GDP in 2002. Fourth, tax and non-tax revenue rose to 20.3 percent of GDP by
2002, about equivalent to the best-run African economies. In particular, customs receipts or trade based
revenue were projected to continue to rise following the rebound of the private sector in the aftermath of
exchange rate reforms, the subsequent increase in foreign reserves, enhancement of liquidity through
settlement of Government payment arrears to private suppliers and revitalization of agricultural production
following the rehabilitation of agricultural infrastructure under the Credit.

4.2.3    Another achievement in the macroeconomic front was the improvement in the exchange rate
regime. In July 2000, the Central Bank established a foreign exchange auction market, unifying the two
previous exchange windows. The new procedure of weekly auctions of foreign exchange established a


                                                      - 4 -

single official rate for all transactions. All foreign exchange sales of the Central Bank are now by
transparent competitive auction. The convergence between official and parallel exchanges increased donor
confidence and encouraged a significant increase in external assistance. This important development
prevented the recurrence of balance of payments crises that characterized the period of the conflict and
immediately therafter prior to the implementation of the EERC.

4.2.4   The near-collapse of the Burundian economy had been fuelled by deficit financing and the
accumulation of a large amount of arrears by the Government to domestic suppliers. The Governments
settlement of substantial arrears to suppliers using counterpart funds from the Credit generated liquidity
and contributed to revitalize private sector activity. Total resources allocated to financing payment arrears
to suppliers amounted to about US$7.3 million.

4.2.5   With regard to public expenditure management, audit and administration, EERC proceeds
supported the Government's efforts to improve public expenditure management, aimed to promote
transparency and accountability in public sector financial management. The conduct of a Public
Expenditure Review was applauded by donors, including the European Union, Belgium and France, who
also championed an increased level of assistance to Burundi. Activities supported under this rubric included
support to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU, including assistance for technical and financial
management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, general operational expenditures and project
administration.

Social Indicators

4.2.6   Considering the degree of economic, political and social instability during the period of project
implementation and the challenges associated with enlisting local participation in various activities, the
achievements of the project are considered remarkable. Output targets for the health, education and
agriculture sectors were substantially met over a shorter time frame than envisaged at appraisal. Overall,
the outcome of the project can be rated as "Satisfactory". Indications of economic and social conditions in
Burundi are presented by the Burundian authorities in Annex 11.

4.2.7   The health component was rated satisfactory. Seven activities were included under this
component, which were actively implemented by NGOs, the Ministry of Health, CAMEBU, PROCOBU,
COPED, and other agencies in the face of extremely challenging political and security conditions. The
project has made an important contribution in extending primary health care to the majority of the
population in the affected areas by rehabilitating, building, or equipping health care facilities. Capacity
improvements in local primary health care facilities also reduced the need for hospitalization. A recent
economic evaluation of the project found that reduced morbidity led to lower demand for hospitalization.
Infant mortality was reduced from 129 to 125 per 1,000 live deaths during the life of the project; hospital
infections also declined significantly.

4.2.8   The implementation of the project resulted in the following outputs: (a) rehabilitation and
re-equipment of 24 health centers, enabling the Government to re-establish health infrastructure and
enhance accessibility to health services to pre-crisis levels; (b) replenishment of the stock of pharmaceutical
products, enabling the Government to address the problem of acute scarcity of essential pharmaceutical
products and insufficiency of health care that characterized the crisis era and promoting a decline in
reported cases of infectious diseases such as diarrhea, cholera, bacterial dysentery, and epidemic malaria as
well as cases of "exanthematic " typhoid; (c) provision of essential small medical equipment and laboratory
and test products to 40 health centers and the Blood Bank; and (d) support to HIV/AIDS and STD
programs (while it is estimated that the HIV/AIDS infection rate dropped from 20 percent to 18 percent, it


                                                      - 5 -

is unlikely that this decline was solely attributable to EERC related financing.). In this area, the Credit
supported the establishment of a national machinery for the coordination of the campaign against
HIV/AIDS and STDs. The Credit also financed: (i) the purchase and distribution of condoms; (ii) the
installation of epidemiological surveillance through the provision of screening facilities at monitoring sites;
(iii) the provision of facilities and services (food, medicines and education) to vulnerable groups, including
orphans and sick people. (iv) assistance to populations afflicted by epidemics, such as malaria, by
providing 240,000 locally fabricated mosquito nets; (v) provision of cleaning facilities in affected areas
through the services of organizations such as COTEBU and LMTC; (vi) rehabilitation of water supply
systems in health centers to prevent the widespread incidence of endemic diseases: and (vii) rehabilitation of
housing facilities at health centers in order to improve working conditions for health workers.

4.2.9     The implementation of the education component was rated satisfactory. The objectives of this
component were: (a) re-establishing and improving the rate of school enrollment; (b) restoring and
improving the quality of instruction, and (c) enhancing good governance and equitable access to quality
education. BPE, the Ministry of Education, NGOs and consultants implemented various activities under
this component. BPE carried out activities under challenging political conditions and insecurity in the
country. The six main outputs comprised: (1) 117 primary schools (compared to the target of 100)
rehabilitated and equipped, and 360 classrooms reconstructed and re-equipped to provide capacity to
accommodate 29,050 students; (2) textbooks provided to primary schools at a total cost of BuF 270
million; (3) 3,000 primary school teachers trained (compared to the target of 2,100); (4) On-the-job
training to all directors and inspectors of primary schools (exceeding the target of 80 percent trained); (5)
logistic materials and equipment (1 vehicle and 4 computers) provided to the Educational Planning Bureau;
and (6) textbooks and laboratory equipment supplied to country high schools serving the groups most
disadvantaged at a total cost of BuF 1,000 million and BuF 238 million, respectively.

4.2.10 The implementation of the agricultural component was rated satisfactory: Activities under this
component comprised the following: (i) resettlement of displaced persons and returning refugees; (ii)
rehabilitation of eight seed testing and multiplication centers operated by ISABU; and (3) environmental
rehabilitation. Agricultural tools and seeds were provided to 10,000 displaced and repatriated households to
facilitate their re-integration. Also, hundreds of hectares of forest shrubs and fruit trees were integrated into
agricultural farming in the provinces of Karuzi, Kirundo, Cankuzo, Bubanza and Cibitoke.

4.2.11 The implementation of the re-settlement and re-integration component was rated moderately
satisfactory. Activities under this component comprised the following: (i) support to the reconstruction of
housing destroyed by conflict; and (ii) clean up of sites occupied by the affected populations. The lack of
organization and procedures at both the grassroots and ministerial levels adversely affected the satisfactory
delivery of materials to beneficiaries, thus compromising the full attainment of the objectives envisaged
under this component. Consequently, only 10,000 houses were rebuilt (of the target of 30,000), while 16.55
km of drinking water supply pipes were reconstructed or rehabilitated and 2.98 Km of new pipes were
installed.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Besides laying the foundations for public administration reforms, the EERC supported reforms in the



                                                      - 6 -

budgeting and resource allocation processes: (i) improvement of the budget process through functional and
economic classification of expenditures, to strengthen the nexus between inputs and outputs; (ii)
introduction of a double-entry accounting system, to facilitate budget analysis; (iii) an audit of Treasury
operations and (iv) targeted interventions to increase the provision of essential social services to the poor.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
        5.1.1    The achievement of EERC objectives were facilitated by two main factors. First, the
EERC benefited from a generally favorable international environment, characterized by renewed interest
and support of a number of donors, particularly Belgium, France and the European Union. The Interim
Strategy and EERC succeeded in creating a framework for greater donor assistance to the weak economy
of Burundi. Second, the quick disbursement of significant balance of payments support to an economy
barely emerging from conflict helped create a beneficial image of the country's economic management
abroad and of catalyzing other sources of development assistance. It is important to note that one of the
reasons for program success was the positive lessons learned from similar operations in other countries,
which provided a better insight for implementing a post-conflict economic recovery program for Burundi.

        5.1.2 Three negative factors also affected program implementation. First, sporadic
violence and political uncertainty continued throughout 2002. However, in 2003, Burundi moved
closer towards political reconciliation and sustainable peace. Following an understanding reached
in November 2003, the main rebel group that had refused to participate in the Arusha Peace
Negotiations, the Forces for the Defense of Democracy (CNDD-FDD) joined the transition
government. Under the comprehensive power-sharing plan, the various segments of society are
represented in a balanced manner in both the executive and legislative branches of government.
Second, poor export performance and adverse terms of trade shocks (partly due to falling
international coffee prices) continued to dampen economic growth. Coffee, historically the main
cash crop of Burundi, has provided 85 percent of export receipts, about 45 percent of GDP and
30 percent of government revenues over the last decade. The entrance of low-cost producers like
Vietnam and the demise of the ICA has had the effect of depressing the international price of
coffee and hence reducing the Burundi government's fiscal base. After strong performance in
2002, economic growth has been projected at ­1.0 percent in 2003 due to the effects of adverse
weather on crop production. However, economic growth should improve in 2004 with the
strengthening of the process of national reconciliation, improved security, and the reconstruction
of physical and social capital damaged during the conflict. Third, growth and the success of the
Government's economic program was hampered by inadequate levels of balance of payments
support by other donors and the absence of an IMF-supported program during the early phase of
project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
        An atmosphere of mutual trust between the Bank and the Borrower facilitated dialogue between
both parties at all stages of the project cycle. The Borrower showed a strong commitment to support the
priority sectors of education, health, agriculture, and the reintegration and resettlement of refugees and
displaced persons. The Government took swift action in appointing project staff; however, it was slow in
replacing ineffective staff. The single most significant constraint to effective project implementation was
the pervasive insecurity in some regions which frustrated prospects for increasing the geographic scope
and coverage of the project.




                                                     - 7 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The maintenance of a strong partnership with NGOs proved effective in implementing the project in
insecure areas.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The final total cost of the EERC was US$ 34.8 million, leaving US$ 200,000 undisbursed from the US$
35.0 million Credit.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1    A program or project's sustainability is its probable ability to maintain the achievements generally
expected or envisaged to be generated over its economic life. The sustainability of the program
supported by EERC is rated as likely. This and other ratings of the EERC are presented in Annex 5. In
the Burundian context, the sustainability of achievements under the credit depends on a number of factors,
such as (a) the ability of the Transition Government to build its institutional capacity and reinforce its
efforts in national reconciliation and peace; (b) its ability to stay on track on the implementation of its
reform program; and (c) the continued and increased flow of donor assistance. Burundi is heavily
dependent on development assistance, which declined abruptly and greatly during the crisis period from
over US$ 300 million in 1993 to US$ 48 million in 1999. Considerable progress has been made in
achieving national reconciliation and re-integration in Burundi.

6.1.2    The establishment of an all-inclusive Government marked the most remarkable achievement on the
political front. More recently, a peaceful transfer of power that witnessed the investiture of Domitien
Ndayizeye as President under a Transitional Government took place. The first phase of the Transitional
Government, under President Pierre Buyoya, provided the platform for dialogue with political factions that
did not subscribe to the Peace Accord; the CNDD-FDD has since joined the Government. An African
Peacekeeping Force, comprising South Africa, Ethiopia and Mozambique is now stationed in Burundi.
Nonetheless, political developments and the security situation within the Great Lakes sub-region,
particularly in the Democratic Republic of Congo, will continue to have spillover effects on Burundi.

6.1.3    Economic reforms initiated under the impetus of EERC, particularly those relating to exchange
rate and public expenditure management, encouraged the adoption of other wide ranging reform measures
with the support of the IMF and other donors. The second generation of reforms is intended to consolidate
the gains associated with the implementation of EERC in four priority areas: governance, public
expenditure management, private sector development, agriculture and rural development. Reforms being
advanced by the Transitional Government include (i) the implementation of measures intended to strengthen
the administration of public procurement; (ii) the creation of the Cour des Comptes, an Independent Audit
Office vested with the power to combat fraud and corruption; (iii) the implementation of a tracking system
to monitor the flow of public spending to specific facilities, projects or activities; (iv) the revision of
commercial legislation, including labor and bankruptcy statutes and strengthening of commercial and
arbitration mechanisms; and ( v) the pursuit of public enterprise privatization measures. These reforms
were developed under the Interim PRSP and enjoy the support of the Bank, the International Monetary
Fund and other donors. The political and economic situation in Burundi remains fragile and fluid and calls
for continued support of the international donor community.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1    The Bank's assistance to Burundi during the post-conflict phase reflected two major challenges: the
need for macro-economic stability, and the imperatives of emergency reconstruction and rehabilitation. The
Bank's Interim Strategy for Burundi included a number of complementary operations: (i) the Social Action


                                                      - 8 -

Project (BURSAP II), supporting a participatory approach to the rehabilitation and provision of social and
economic infrastructure (co-financed by a number of donors and involving NGOs); (ii) a Post-Conflict
Grant fund supporting the re-settlement of displaced persons in partnership with the UNHCR through the
financing of a community re-integration project; (iii) a labor-intensive public works program (ABURTIP);
(iv) an Infrastructure (Roads) Rehabilitation Program; and (v) a Leveraged Insurance Facility for Trade
(LIFT) to promote trade and investment. In parallel with progress being made in the achievement of peace
and reconciliation, the Government of Burundi has placed increased emphasis on development priorities,
particularly those relating to the pursuit of macroeconomic stabilization and economic recovery. The
emphasis on the process of transition from conflict to peace, reconciliation, economic recovery and
development is reflected in the Government's Interim PRSP. These priorities are consistent with the vision
of the Transitional Government and reflect the outcome of participatory consultations and dialogue. The
defined priorities include: (i) re-establishing and reinforcing the quality of essential services in both health
and education sectors; (ii) stabilizing the macro-economic framework and promoting faster and sustainable
growth to accelerate poverty reduction; (iii) re-integrating the victims of conflict and other disadvantaged
groups into the economy; (iv) stepping-up the anti-HIV/AIDS/STD crusade; (v) advancing the role of
women in the development process; and (vi) promoting peace, security and good governance.

6.2.2   The Bank's priorities in the post-conflict phase are reflected in the Transitional Support Strategy
(TSS), discussed by the Board in March 2002. The TSS provided an exceptional IDA allocation to
Burundi for the period 2003-2004. The TSS envisaged support in a number of operations, including an
Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC). The TSS also emphasizes support for (i) demobilization and
re-integration of ex-combatants, (ii) prevention of the spread of HIV/AIDS and supporting the provision of
health services, (iii) pursuit of economic policy and institutional reforms to revitalize the economy and
improve governance, and (iv) reinforcement of donor coordination and resource mobilization.

6.2.3   On August 29, 2002, the Board approved the ERC (Cr.24611-BU) to Burundi in the amount of
SDR 40.8 million (US$ 54 million equivalent). The ERC will advance the TSS goal of consolidating the
gains made under the Interim Strategy. The TSS envisages project assistance including (i) demobilization
and reinsertion, (ii) a multi-sector capacity building project (economic management support), (iii)
emergency road rehabilitation, (iv) HIV/AIDS/orphans and health & population project and (v) a social
action project (BURSAP III). The last two projects were approved by the Board in FY02 and FY03; the
three others were approved in FY04.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
 7.1.1 Project preparation and appraisal benefited from the Bank's experience in post-conflict
 reconstruction in other countries, intensive consultations with Government authorities, participation in the
 Arusha Peace negotiations and collaboration with the IMF and other development partners, including
 various UN relief agencies and NGOs. The first tranche of the Credit, approximately US$15 million, was
 concentrated on activities aimed at (a) alleviating the acute shortage of foreign reserves, (b) financing
 urgent import needs of the private sector, (c) financing urgent rehabilitation programs in health, education
 and agriculture and (d) supporting resettlement and re-integration of internally displaced persons and
 refugees.

 7.1.2 The Bank devoted human and financial resources to each of the stages of the project cycle. These
 inputs are described in Annex 4. Performance as reflected in the rapid, timely and full availability of the
 counterpart resources produced by tranche releases is shown in Table 1 below.



                                                      - 9 -

                             Table 1: Credit/Counterpart Fund Performance
                     Component                       Planned           Actual        Achievement
                                                 Disbursement      Disbursement           Rate
                                                  (US$ million)    (US$ million)       (percent)
         Health                                          8.2               8.2           100.0
         Education & Governance                          7.5               7.5           100.0
         Agriculture                                     4.5               4.5           100.0
         Resettlement of refugees and IDPs               6.7               6.6            98.5
         Settlement of arrears to suppliers              7.3               7.3           100.0
         Audit & administration                          0.8               0.7            87.5
         All categories                                 35.0             34.8             99.4


7.2 Supervision:
        Supervision of the project was effectively carried out during the implementation phase, with close
collaboration of the Country Office. The Country Director's Office provided substantial support, advice
and guidance. The annual CPPR Review process led by the Country Director also helped the supervision.
Bank staff reasonably assessed the risks associated with the implementation of the Program, particularly
with regard to the introduction of new institutional and procedural processes. Potential factors likely to
impede the smooth execution of the project (Section 5 above) were also anticipated by Bank staff, who,
drawing upon lessons learned from similar operations and with close collaboration with the borrower,
introduced appropriate remedial measures.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the foregoing assessment, the overall performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government performance in the preparation of the program supported by the Credit was satisfactory.
Between 1997 and 2000, the Government of Burundi made considerable progress on the political front by
forging national reconciliation and promoting peace and security. A Transition Government established
under the Arusha Peace Accord acceded to power in late 2001.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government demonstrated a strong commitment to the reform program envisaged in the EERC; this
commitment was an essential ingredient for the successful implementation of the reform program.
Interministerial coordination during project design and implementation was satisfactory, and contributed
significantly to the progress achieved by the PCU in managing the Program, conducting timely financial
audits and undertaking various administrative, financial and accounting functions associated with the
Program.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
        During the early period, the PCU's performance in financial management was slower than
expected. The lack of clarity in the definition of the functional responsibilities of the PCU at the very
beginning of the Program was another reason for the identified weaknesses in the performance of its early
role. However, once the staff acquired full familiarity with Bank procedures, its performance improved
markedly for the remainder of the project's life cycle. The PCU played a leading role in the preparation and
subsequent adoption of internal action plans that underpinned project execution and implementation. The



                                                    - 10 -

PCU generally performed well and is better equipped to manage the implementation of similar projects in
the future.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
         In view of the progress and achievements made in project implementation within a relatively short
period of time against the background of a relatively difficult and fragile security situation in Burundi, the
Government's performance in the preparation and implementation of the Credit was rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1.1    The Credit served as an effective instrument during the emergency and early post-conflict phases in
Burundi. It assisted in jump-starting a failing economy, stimulated the private sector and helped the
government provide essential social services (especially in education, health and agriculture) and to cope
with the resettlement of displaced persons and returning refugees. It likely helped demonstrate to a wider
public that the peaceful settlement of conflict was not leading instead to greater misery among the
non-participants. The economic, political and social returns accruing from investment in such activities in a
post-conflict country is considerable, especially in Burundi, where the total collapse of the economy seemed
imminent, due to risks associated with an extremely fragile and volatile political environment. However, in
order to be effective, project design and implementation needed to be sensitive to the prevailing
circumstances.

8.1.2    The most important lesson emerging from the project is that in a crisis situation where the
atmosphere of insecurity was pervasive, the degree of flexibility and devolution of responsibilities adopted
at design stage of the project cycle greatly facilitated project implementation. The need to pay particular
attention to "poverty alleviation" components of post-conflict programs cannot be overemphasized. The
Bank's requirement to include these as an integral part of any program proved beneficial in the case of
Burundi.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Government authorities expressed their satisfaction for the successful execution and completion of the
project. (The Government's contribution to the ICR (in French) is Annex 11). They also commended the
role played by the implementation agencies and the PCU, all of which operated under extremely difficult
conditions. Beneficiaries in the project areas expressed satisfaction for the project and recognized the
positive impact on their living conditions brought about by the various completed projects in education,
health, water supply, agricultural rehabilitation and resettlement of displaced persons and returning
refugees. Prior to the closing of the project, the Burundian Government solicited additional assistance in the
form of balance of payments support and were confident that lessons derived from the EERC would be
useful in launching similar programs in the country in the future. The executing agencies also expressed
their satisfaction with the role played by the Government in encouraging the provision of basic social
infrastructure and expanding accessibility to these facilities by the population. Finally, the agencies also
expressed satisfaction at the constructive and facilitative role assumed by the Bank in both the design and
implementation stages of the project.

(b) Cofinanciers:
There was no cofinancing of EERC components. However, the objectives of the project benefited from a
number of simultaneous and complementary activities financed in parallel by the European Union, Belgium
and France. During interview discussions with donor representatives, the consensus was that the
collaboration with the Bank was generally satisfactory and was greatly facilitated by regular consultations
initiated by the Team Leaders.


                                                     - 11 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
A number of NGOs were willing to operate in a highly fragile and insecure environment during the
implementation of the Program. These organizations made a positive assessment of the Bank's role,
particularly in helping the government to finance activities benefiting the rural population throughout the
country. They commended the participatory approach adopted for the implementation of the components of
the Program, in which beneficiaries made contributions in kind, such as materials and labor. However, a
shortcoming of this approach was the delay in project implementation arising from the difficulty of
participating beneficiaries in making timely contributions. Early administrative problems such as
unfamiliarity with the Bank's procedures resulted in some disbursement delays on contracts with the PCU.
The NGOs expressed the opinion that while routine maintenance of project-financed investments should be
the responsibility of beneficiaries, there was an urgent need to include financing for periodic maintenance in
the investment budget of activities financed by counterpart funds.

(d) Overall Assessment of Project Outcome
The outcome of the EERC was, to a large extent, satisfactory. The Credit supported macroeconomic,
sector, social and institutional policy reforms and contributed to specific programs having a poverty
alleviation focus. Economic recovery was assisted by the provision of quick disbursing foreign exchange
resources needed for urgent financing of private sector imports and settlement of Government arrears to
private sector suppliers. The establishment of a foreign exchange auction system and the subsequent
generation of local currency or counterpart funds were intended to support the Government's social sector
rehabilitation and resettlement of displaced persons and returning refugees. The EERC supported the
economic growth process by financing the stabilization program through the provision of foreign exchange
resources, the rationalization of the foreign exchange regime, the provision of liquidity to the private sector,
the rehabilitation of priority health, education and agricultural sectors and resettlement of human capital.
Improvements in the macro economic policy front made possible by the Credit stimulated new or additional
assistance and disbursement from other donors, particularly the European Union, Belgium and France. The
upturn in Burundi's economic performance has led in turn to a "virtuous circle" of rising government
revenues, decreasing fiscal and external deficits and resumption of development assistance.

10. Additional Information

10.1     Burundi is a small landlocked country. With a population of just over 7 million (growing at 2.9
percent), its population density of 215 persons per square kilometer is the second highest in Africa. Since
independence in 1962, Burundi, has experienced a volatile political situation, fuelled by ethnic tensions
between two major ethnic groups: the Hutus, representing over four fifth of the population and the Tutsis,
representing the minority group. The most serious civil strife erupted in 1993, when the assassination of the
democratically elected President Ndandaye and the Speaker of the National Assembly triggered massive
violence resulting in the murder of over 250,000 people and the displacement of thousands of people during
the eight-year long civil war. The number of internally displaced persons and refugees is estimated at about
1.2 million, most of whom fled to Tanzania. The economic decline accompanying the civil war saw GDP
per capital falling from $ 180 in 1993 to $ 110 in 1999, significantly below the $490 average for
Sub-Saharan Africa.

10.2     The social costs of the protracted conflict were also significant. Poverty, already a widespread
phenomenon in Burundi, increased sharply between 1993 and 1999; the headcount index reached 68.7
percent from 40 percent in the pre-conflict period. The deterioration in the standard of living was
countrywide in scope but was much more pronounced in the urban areas. Social indicators and outcomes
reflected the deterioration in social welfare. HIV/AIDS has become one of the major causes of mortality in
the adult population during the post-conflict period and a major factor in the rise in mortality rates from


                                                     - 12 -

110 per 1000 live births to 116 in 2000. This indicator is significantly above the average for Sub-Saharan
Africa, which stands at 92. The epidemic is affecting people in their most productive years; the proportion
of adults dying before age 40 increased significantly in the 1990s. In rural areas the HIV prevalence rate
increased from less than 1 percent to 6 percent between 1989 and 1998, while in urban areas, it increased
from 11 percent to 20 percent during the same period. The number of people living with HIV/AIDS was
about 360,000 in the 15-49-age group and 19,000 for those under 15 in 1999. There are 558,000 orphans
in Burundi, about 195,000 of whom are believed to have been orphaned by HIV/AIDS.

10.3     The conflict also had a negative impact on other dimensions of well-being. The number of victims
of malaria, the leading cause of death, has increased. Both malaria and HIV/AIDS pandemic are largely
responsible for the decline in life expectancy, which fell from an already low level of 51 years in 1993 to
less than 42 in 2000. Access to safe water and health services remained extremely low, at less than 48
percent and 20 percent, respectively. In the education sector, gross primary enrollment fell to 51 percent
from 68 percent in 1992 while the repetition rate increased from 13 percent to 17 percent.

10.4     The high social and economic costs of the conflict prompted the international community to assist
Burundi in the search for peace by establishing a framework for national reconciliation and durable peace.
These efforts culminated in the conclusion of the Arusha Peace Accord, signed in Arusha, Tanzania, in
August 2000. A power sharing Government was inaugurated on November 1, 2001 in accordance with
terms of this Accord. The Transitional Government was vested with the responsibility to administer the
country during a 36-month transition period, at the end of which democratic elections would be conducted.
The transitional period had two phases in power sharing arrangements. Pierre Buyoya, a Tutsi, led the
transitional government for a period of 18 months, from November 1, 2001 to April 30, 2003. On this date,
Domitien Ndayizeye, the Hutu Vice-President in the first Transitional Government, succeeded President
Buyoya. This second phase of the transitional period is scheduled to end through general elections in
November 2004.

10.5     The configuration of the Transitional Government, which was highly inclusive, is also reflected in
the structure of the leadership governing the second phase of the Transition. This leadership has been
making remarkable progress, particularly in addressing the various development challenges and
consolidating the gains since the signing of the Arusha Peace Accord and the implementation of transitional
arrangements. In particular, some of the challenges include: fostering inclusiveness, peace and security,
promoting national reconciliation and good governance, resettling and reintegrating displaced persons and
other victims of conflict, rehabilitating destroyed economic and social infrastructure, revitalizing the
economy and strengthening human resource capacities. In addition to recent progress on the political front,
and despite the sporadic violence, the progress made and the consolidation of gains have been significant in
the areas of rehabilitation of economic and social infrastructure, reintegration and resettlement of victims of
conflict and displaced persons, reengagement with development partners. In particular, with the support of
the international community, Burundian authorities rehabilitated a schools and educational facilities to
provide essential social services to the poor and vulnerable groups and to redress historic ethnic imbalances
in access to services. They also supported the rehabilitation of community housing to facilitate the
reinsertion and reintegration of victims of conflicts and returning refugees. By end of December 2002, over
10,000 houses had been either rehabilitated or reconstructed, and over 100 destroyed primary schools had
been rehabilitated and become operational. The Transitional Leadership has also been implementing a
number of reforms, notably in the areas of governance, exchange rate and public expenditure management.

10.6     Burundi has always been highly dependent on external assistance, and became even more so during
the crisis period. Despite the resumption of international assistance, and increased donor commitment after



                                                     - 13 -

the signing of the Arusha Peace Accord, the economic recovery process remains vulnerable as the political
situation continues to be fragile and the level of development assistance remains significantly below
pre-crisis levels. The country's high and unsustainable external debt burden, reflected in the accumulation
of arrears on both private and public debt have resulted in a significant reduction in external resource flows
into Burundi.

10.7     In the face of declining external capital flows and the emerging development challenges, Burundian
authorities prepared a post-conflict development strategy, emphasizing short-term humanitarian relief and
emergency assistance with multi-medium-term reconstruction and longer-term reconciliation and
sustainable development. The strategy underpinned a number of economic reforms, in governance, public
expenditure management, liberalization, economic growth, clearance of domestic arrears to private
suppliers and provision of foreign exchange for financing key imports essential for growth, monetary and
exchange rate management, particularly the unification of exchange rate regimes. The Bank's Interim
Strategy to assist Burundi during the period 1999-2001 was discussed by the Board of Directors in October
1999. That strategy was designed to support the Government reform program. The Interim Strategy rested
upon three pillars: (i) the promotion of governance and ownership through participation in rehabilitation
and reconciliation, (ii) the creation of productive employment in support of restoring purchasing power, and
(iii) restoring key imports to support private sector activities and restoring minimum levels of essential
social services. The Interim Strategy and specifically, the third pillar provided the basis for the EERC.

10.8     Burundian authorities presented the Government Transitional Strategy (GTS) for the period
2001-2003 to the international community at an international donor conference in December 2000. The
GTS stressed continued implementation of economic reforms, the need for social inclusion and a
participatory approach to development, a policy at variance with the actions carried out in the pre-crisis
period, when most benefits of growth accrued to a small and privileged segment of the population, largely
living in the urban areas. In particular, the strategy placed emphasis on an increased role for the private
sector and consolidation of gains in reforms undertaken so far. The Strategy included the following key
components: (i) support for agriculture and rural development; (ii) private sector development; (iii) good
governance and improved public expenditure management; and (iv) human resource development.

10.9     The reforms initiated by the Burundian authorities and supported by the Bank, together with the
EERC facility were instrumental in reviving donor interest in the country. An IMF-backed Staff Monitored
Program (SMP) was put in place during the second half of 2001. This led to financing under the IMF's
Post-Conflict Assistance policy. The level of pledges made by donors at the Paris conference was
substantially increased at the Geneva Round Table Meeting in December 2001, bringing the total amount
of pledges to US$830 million. The Bank's Board endorsed a Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) in March
2002 to lend further support to the Government's reform program. The TSS was underpinned by a number
of operations, including the US$54 million ERC approved by the Board in August 2002. A Multilateral
Donor Trust Fund was established to mobilize resources to help service Burundi's external debt to
multilateral institutions (IDA, AfDB and IFAD). This marked another important step in revitalizing the role
of external donors and stimulating the flow of international assistance to the country. With the completion
of preparation of the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) during 2003 fiscal year, the
Government has laid the foundation for eventual assistance under the Highly Indebted Poor Countries
(HIPC) Initiative.




                                                      - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Indicator /Matrix                    Projected at Appraisal                  Actual Outcome
Qualitative Macro Indicators:

(i)Macro stabilization               (i) Promote economic stabilization.     (i) Achieved by Board approval of EERC
                                                                             to provide quick disbursing assistance
                                                                             needed to "jump-start" the economy.

(ii)Foreign exchange allocation      (ii)Improve     efficiency    in    the (ii)Achieved by establishing a market base
                                     allocative process.                     allocative system through a local foreign
                                                                             exchange auction market.

(iii)Private sector development      (iii)Lay the foundation for private     (iii)Achieved by settling Government past
                                     sector development.                     due debts to the private sector through
                                                                             payments to private sector suppliers-
                                                                             thereby injecting liquidity and stimulating
                                                                             private sector growth.
Qualitative Sectoral Indicators:
(i) Health sector development        (i) Rehabilitate the health sector      (i) Achieved by (a) reconstructing health
                                                                             care facilities, including health centers
                                                                             and water supply systems (b) financing
                                                                             the procurement of urgent pharmaceutical
                                                                             products and health equipment.

(ii) Educational development         (ii) Rehabilitate the education sector. (ii)  Achieved    by   (a)   reconstructing
                                                                             primary and secondary school classrooms
                                                                             (b) financing the procurement of school
                                                                             textbooks     and     other   materials;(c)
                                                                             supporting teacher training program and
                                                                             (d) providing institutional support such as
                                                                             training supervisory and inspectorate staff
                                                                             and strengthening educational planning
                                                                             bureau.

(iii) Agricultural development       (iii) Rehabilitating the agricultural   (iii) Accomplished by (a) resettling people
                                     sector.                                 in    farming    areas;    (b)    providing
                                                                             agricultural   equipment     and   farming
                                                                             materials; (c) restocking the livestock
                                                                             population and (d) rehabilitating seedling
                                                                             centers reconstructing rural access roads.

(iv) Human Settlement                (iv) Resettling internally displaced    (iv) Accomplished by constructing 30,000
                                     persons and returning or repatriated    houses to resettle affected persons and
                                     refugees.                               providing basic facilities for productive
                                                                             self-employment.

(v) Institutional Development        (v) Improving public expenditure        (v) Accomplished by financing a Public
                                     management.                             Expenditure Review exercise intended to
                                                                             improve budgeting and public resource
                                                                             allocation processes.
Note: Due to its nature and conception, the project was not a standard project and did not have precise quantitative
benchmarks.




                                                         - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Allocation of Counterpart Resources by Activity          Estimated   % of Total Actual Cost    % of total % Variance on
(Government activities funded by auction of Foreign      Cost at     Cost                                Appraisal Estimates
Exchange under Project)                                  Appraisal
Health                                                                                 6,130     13.76
Education and Good Governance                                                          5,620     12.62
Agriculture                                                                            3,345      7.51
Resettlement                                                                           5,000     11.22
Settlement of Arrears to private sector suppliers                                      5,509     12.37
Audit & Administration                                                                  646       1.45
Sub-Total                                                                         26,250.00      58.93
Sectoral Components

Health Sector                                                                      6,130.00      13.76
Rehabilitation/Re-equipment of Health Centers                                          1,100      2.47
Replenishment of the current stock of pharmaceutical                                    900       2.02
products
Provision of Small medical equipment, laboratory supplies                               165       0.37
and blood testing paper for the Blood Bank
Support Against Aids                                                                    505       1.13
Support against Endemic/epidemic diseases                                              2,800      6.29
Water Supply Rehabilitation for Hospitals and Health                                    550       1.23
Centers
Incentives for Workers in Rural Areas                                                   110       0.25
Education Sector                                                                   7,350.00      16.50
Rehabilitation and Equipment of Primary Schools                                        2,500      5.61
Supply of Textbooks for Primary Schools                                                 700       1.57
Training for Primary School Directors and Inspectors                                    120       0.27
Support for the Education Planning Bureau                                                 30      0.07
Equity and Good Governance                                                             2000       4.49
Acquisition of Textbooks for High Schools                                              1,500      3.37
Acquisition of Laboratory Materials for Village/County                                  500       1.12
High Schools
Agricultural Sector                                                                3,345.00       7.51
Support for Resettlement of Displaced Persons and                                      1,815      4.07
returning Refugees
Rehabilitation of ISABU Seedling Centers                                                110       0.25
Rehabilitation of Rural Trails and Feeder Roads                                        1,200      2.69
Environment Rehabilitation                                                              220       0.49
Resettlement and Re-integration                                                    1,470.00       3.30
Purchase of Materials                                                                  3,530      7.92
Number of Houses                                                                                  0.00
Site-clean up                                                                          1,470      3.30
Sub-Total

TOTAL PROGRAM COST                                                                44,545.00    100.00
Note: Exchange Rate: 1IS$=BuF 600 (March 1999)




                                                                  - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               3/15/99-                  2     Economists                             S               S
               6/25/99                   1     Health sector specialist
                                         1     Procurement specialist
                                         1     Education specialist
                                         1     Counsel
                                         1     Financial mgmt expert
                                         1     Education specialist
                                         1     Counsel
                                         1     Young professional
                                         1     Program assistant


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               2/05/00-2/23/00           2     Economists                             S               S
                                         1     Counsel
                                         1     Disbursement specialist

 Supervision
               6/15/02                    2    Economists                             S               S
                                          1    Procurement specialist
                                          1    Country Manager
                                          1    Financial mgmt specialist
               CPPR 5/02                       Country Team incl. CD                  S               S

 ICR
               12/15/03                  1     Economist                              S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  48                           125.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       36                             84.2
  Supervision                                 20                           220.0
  ICR                                          8                             60.0
  Total                                     112                            489.8




                                               - 18 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Not applicable




                                      - 21 -

Additional Annex 8. Consolidated Summary of Assessment



A;     Achievement     of    High      Substantial  Modest    Negligible Not
Objectives                                                               Applicable

Macro Policies               v
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                      v
Institutional Development                              v
Physical Objectives                       v
Poverty Reduction            v
Gender Issues                                          v
Other Social Objectives      v
Environmental Objectives                               v
Public Sector                                                               v
Management
Private Sector                            v
Development

B.Project Sustainability  Likely       Unlikely     Uncertain
                             v
C.Bank Performance        Highly       Satisfactory Deficient
                          Satisfactory
Lending                                   v
Supervision                               v
Overall                                   v
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                               v
Implementation                            v
Implementation Agencies                   v
Overall                                   v
E. Assessment of
Outcome
Overall                                   v




                                          - 22 -

Additional Annex 9. EERC Withdrawal/Disbursement of Proceeds




Disbursement Date    Amount    (US$ Cumulative             Cumulative Disbursement (%)
                     million)        Disbursement (US $
                                     millions)
June 00              14.9            14.9                  43.52
Sept 00              7.89            22.79                 66.57
Nov 00               6.95            29.74                 86.85
May 01               2.51            32.25                 94.19
March 02             1.18            33.43                 97.63
May 02               0.46            33.88                 98.97
Oct 02               0.24            34.12                 99.65
Nov 02               0.02            34.14                 99.71



                    Cumulative Disbursement Pattern 2000-2002


  $40.00

  $35.00
                                           32.25      33.43    33.88     34.12    34.14
  $30.00                          29.74

  $25.00
                         22.79
  $20.00

  $15.00       14.9

  $10.00

  $5.00

  $0.00
          June 00   Sept 00   Nov 00   May 01    March 02  May 02    Oct 02   Nov 02




                                           - 23 -

 Additional Annex 10. MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS- BURUNDI



TABLE: BURUNDI KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS 1998-2005
                                                      1997    1998    1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004    2005

Macroeconomy
Nominal GDP (bill. Burundi francs)                   342.8    400.2   455.4   511    550   584.6 640.7    716.5   793.1
Real GDP growth (%)                                     0.4    4.8      -1    -0.9   2.1    4.5    -1     5.1     5.3
Inflation (end ofperiod) (%)                          26.6      -1    20.7   14.1    3.9    3.5    9      5.5     4.8
Gross investment/GDP (%)                                6.8    5.6      9      6     7.5     9    10.3    11      11.4
Gross national savings/GDP (%)                          4      -1.9    2.9     -4    0.7    2.5   4.9     0.4     1.2

Public Finance
Revenue(excluding grants)/GDP (%)                     13.6     17.1   16.3   19.2    20    20.3   20.2    19.9    20
Total expenditure and net lending/GDP (%)             21.8     23.7   25.3   24.2    27.2  25.9   29.4    29      27.5
Primarybudget balance/GDP (%)                         -0.5     0.7     -0.8   2.2    -0.8   2.2   -0.3     0      0.8
Overall balance (excluding grants)/GDP (%)            -8.3     -6.6    -9.1   -4.9   -7.2   -5.7  -9.2    -9.2    -7.5
Overall balance (including grants)/GDP (%)            -5.3     -5.7    -6.6   -1.8   -5.2   -1.4   -4      -7      -5

Trade
Exports, f.o.b. (in U.S. dollars)                    115.4    -26.9    -14   -10.7  -20.2  -20.3  49.8  -30.6     36.5
Imports, f.o.b. (in U.S. dollars)                     -3.8     28.5   -21.3  10.8    0.5    -4.2  22.7    8.8      5
Terms of trade (%)                                    -8.7     19.5    0.3   -22.2   -21    0.1   -2.8    4.4     2.9
Current account balance /GDP (%)                      -2.8     -7.5    -6.1   -10    -6.8   -6.5  -5.3  -10.6    -10.2
Official reserves (in months of imports, c.i.f.)      12.3     5.9     5.8    4.1    2.3    5.9   5.9       6.5      6.3

Debt
Stock of debt ($ million)                           1077.5    1127.3  1099.3 1077.7 1057.7 1119.3 1215  1194.1 1209.6
Debt-service ratio (% of exports)                     59.2     76.2   76.2   84.1   105.3  157.2  86.6    123.7      85
Exchange rate (Burundi francs per U.S. dolla r)      408.4    505.2   628.6  778.2  864.2  1,071 1,073 ...     ...
Sources: Government of Burundi, IMF, and Bank staff estimates




                                                                - 24 -

- 25 -

