Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3337 BU
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Economic Recovery Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 8, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3337 BU 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 8, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A)
 the Borrower intends to carry out an emergency recovery and 
reconstruction program to stabilize the economy, prepare an environment for economic 
recovery and restore essential social services;said proceeds to be sold through a 
foreign exchange auction, administered with the assistance of the Banque de la 
Republique du Burundi (BRB), to importers in the private sector for the importation of 
goods required for the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(C)
the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below, (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read: 
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full amount 
then due and  payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the Association 
shall have the right 
to allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner 
and for such purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall 
in its sole discretion determine”; and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
“radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“BRB” means Banque de la République du Burundi, the Borrower’s central 
bank; 
(b)
“Eligible Importers” means the importers qualified by the Borrower for 
participation in the Foreign Exchange Auctions (as hereinafter defined) in accordance 
with eligibility criteria and terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including criteria and terms and conditions set out in the FEXMA Manual (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(c)
“FEXMA Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 1 (a) (ii) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(d)
“Foreign Exchange Auctions” means the foreign exchange auctions to be 
held under the Foreign Exchange Regulations (as hereinafter defined); 
(e)
“Foreign Exchange Regulations” means the “Regulations Related to Foreign 
Exchange Bureaux and Accounts in Foreign Currencies” made by the BRB and dated 
November 12, 1999, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(f)
“Franc Burundais” and “FBU” mean the currency of the Borrower.; 
(g)
“HSCC” means the Borrower’s Harmonized System Customs Code dated January 
1, 1993, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(h)
“LCA Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 1 (a) (iii) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(i)
“Local Currency Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(dc) of this Agreement; 
(j)
“NGOs” means nongovernmental organizations; 
(k)
“Project Accountants” means the accountants referred to in paragraph 4 
(d) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  
(l)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 
1 (a) (i) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
Page  3
(m)
“Project  Manuals” means the Project Implementation Manual, the FEXMA 
Manual, and the LCA Manual; and
(n)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreements signed: 
(i) on behalf of the Association on July 1, 1999 and on behalf of the Borrower on July 
10, 1999; and (ii), as amended by letter agreement on behalf of the Association and 
the Borrower on September 28, 1999; 
(o)
“Special posit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement; 
(p)
“Steering and Policy Committee” means the committee referred to in 
paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
(q)
“Technical Implementation Committee” means the committee referred to in 
paragraph 4 (c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-six million, two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 26,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the BRB on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. Prior to furnishing 
to the Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, the 
Borrower shall open and thereafter maintain in BRB a deposit account in Dollars on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit 
Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. The proceeds 
of the Credit allocated to Category (1) in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, shall be sold, for the purposes of the Program, through the Foreign 
Exchange Auction Market in accordance with provisions set out or referred to in this 
Agreement.
(c)
The proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (1) in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be made available to Eligible 
Importers through the series of Foreign Exchange Auctions to be held under the 
Project, in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including terms and conditions requiring said importers to use the proceeds so made 
available to finance the importation of items referred to in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, and such items shall be used exclusively for purposes of the Project. 
(d)
 Prior to furnishing to the Association the first request for withdrawal 
from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall open and thereafter maintain in the BRB a 
Local Currency Account in Franc Burundais on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All proceeds of the Credit received by the Borrower through the Foreign 
Exchange Auctions sales shall be promptly deposited by the Borrower into the Local 
Currency Account and used exclusively for developmental purposes satisfactory to the 
Association.  All the proceeds of the Credit sold through the Foreign Exchange Auction 
Market shall be deposited by the Association into the Local Currency Account and used 
exclusively for developmental purposes1 satisfactory to the Association. 
(e)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15, commencing September 15, 2010 and ending March 15, 
2040. Each installment to, and including the installment payable on, March 15, 2020 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
Page  5
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. (a) The BRB is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts the BRB with the responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal 
applications under the Credit and for the collection of the documents and other 
evidence to be furnished to the Association in support of such applications. 
(c)
The withdrawal applications mentioned in subparagraph (b) above shall, to 
the extent practicable, be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate 
amounts of not less than $2,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and economic 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program, and, to 
this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and managerial practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project. 
(c)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Project, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (ba) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Project or any action taken under the Project.
Section 3.04. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
Page  6
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
Section 3.05. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall carry out activities required under the Program in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources, and expenditures in respect of the Project of 
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project 
or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account and the Local 
Currency Account, for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association: (A) no later than six (6), ten (10), 
and fourteen 
(14) months after the Effective Date; and (B) thereafter, no 
later than every 
six (6) months, the report of any Special Account 
audits by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; 
(iii)
furnish to the Association: (A) no later than eight (8) months 
after the 
Effective Date; and (B) thereafter, no later than 
every six (6) months, the 
report of any Local Currency Account audits by 
said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts, 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the  statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Page  7
Remedies Additional Event of Suspension
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Foreign Exchange Regulations 
and HSCC shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project 
or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that  any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Borrower has: 
(a)
opened the Special Deposit Account; 
(b)
opened the Local Currency Account; 
(c)
(i) furnished to the Association the FEXMA Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and and (ii) taken actions, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the carrying out of implementation of the Foreign Exchange Auctions 
Market;  
(d)
employed the Project Accountants, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(e)
furnished to the Association the LCA Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety days (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
responsible for finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère des Finances
B.P. 1830
Bujumbura Burundi
Telex:
Facsimile:
5135 (257) 
223827
MINIFINBDI
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  8
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Thomas Ndikumana 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to such Categories 
and the percentage of expenditures to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Imports
  33,300,000
100% of foreign
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’
     645,000
100%
services
(3)
Refunding of
     675,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (de) of
Advance
this Agreement
  __________
TOTAL
  35,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “imports” means the goods listed in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and
(b)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower. 
Page  9
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount of SDR 5,240,000, may be made on 
account of payments made for eligible expenditures before that date but after March 
26, 1999. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures (i) for goods under contracts not exceeding 
$500,000 equivalent each; and (b) for consultants’ services under contracts not 
exceeding (A) $100,000 each for consulting firms, and (B) $50,000 each for individual 
consultants, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in stabilizing the 
economy, preparing an environment for economic recovery and restoring essential social 
services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Importation of Goods Specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement for: 
1.
The Agriculture Sector 
2.
The Industrial Sector 
3.
The Transport Sector 
4.
The Mining Sector
Part B:
Consultants’ Services 
1.
Preparation of (i) a public expenditure review; (ii) a survey on the performance 
of consumer welfare; and (iii) a manual of procedures for clearance of arrears to the 
private sector. Design of the Foreign Exchange Auction. Carrying out of audits. 
* * * * *
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
List of Imports Eligible for Financing Under the Credit
1.
Agricultural products (HSCC 06 – 14, Section II) 
2.
Mineral products (HSCC 25 – 27, Section V) 
3.
Products of the chemical industry or of related industries (HSCC 28 – 38, 
Section VI) 
4.
Plastics and articles made from plastics; rubber and rubber articles (HSCC 39 – 
40, Section VII) 
5.
Charcoal, wooden articles, cork and cork articles, esparto, basket work or 
wickerwork articles (HSCC 44 – 46, Section IX)
6.
Wood pulp or pulp made from other cellulosic fibrous materials: scrap and waste 
paper cardboard; paper and its application (HSCC 47 – 49, Section X) 
7.
Textiles and textile articles (HSCC 50 – 63, Section XI) 
Page  10
8.
Articles made from stone, plaster, cement, asbestos, mica, or similar 
substances; ceramic products; glass articles (HSCC 68 – 70, Section XIII) 
9.
Base metals and articles made from such metals (HSCC 72 – 83, Section XV) 
10.
Machinery appliances; electrical appliances and related parts; stereo systems 
and other electronic appliances; scanning equipment; recording appliances, television 
and video appliances; and all related parts (HSCC 84 – 85, Section XVI) 
11.
Transport equipment (HSCC 86 – 89, Section XVII) 
12.
Optical, photographic, cinematographic, measurement, control, or precision 
instruments and apparatus; medical and surgical instruments and apparatus; parts and 
accessories for these instruments and apparatus (HSCC 90 – 92, Section XVIII)
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Gidelines and paragraph [5 of Appendix 1 thereto].
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Procurement of Imports Listed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
(a)
Commonly traded commodities estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 per contract may be procured through organized international commodity 
markets or other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to the Association in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.65 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Other goods under such list estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of simplified international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of the Guidelines. 
(c)
Other goods under such list procured by the private sector estimated to 
cost the equivalent of less than $1,000,000 per contract may be procured in accordance 
with established commercial practices satisfactory to the Association. Limited 
International Bidding Specialized equipment and other equipment which the Association 
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the 
cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National or International Shopping 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $[30,000] equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $[500,000] equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or more per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $[1,000,000] equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
Page  11
the provisions of paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Imports listed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(a)
Commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized 
international commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement 
acceptable to the Association in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.65 of 
the Guidelines. 
(b)
Other goods under such list estimated to cost $[5,000,000] or more per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of simplified 
international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Other goods under such list procured by the private sector estimated to 
cost less than $[5,000,000] per contract may be procured in accordance with 
established commercial practices satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project activities shall be furnished to the Association for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to: 
(i)
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more 
per contract procured under Parts B and C.1 of this 
Section; 
(ii)
the first two contracts for goods awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures; 
and 
(iii)
the first two contracts for goods awarded on the basis of 
international shopping 
procedures.
(b)
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with national 
or international shopping procedures, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any 
contract under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the signing of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  12
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least –Cost Selection
Services for audits may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for economic studies and reviews estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $[2100,000] or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference, and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
Page  13
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, prepare and furnish 
to the Association: 
(i)
a Project Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory 
to the 
Association, setting out details of all procedures, 
guidelines, timetables, 
and criteria required for the activities under 
the Project; 
(ii)
a Foreign Exchange Auction Market Manual(the FEXMA Manual) in form 
and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, setting out the 
policies and 
procedures for the implementation of the Fforeign 
eExchange aAuction market, 
including the eligibility and other 
qualifying criteria for participation in 
the Foreign Exchange 
Auctionssaid market; and 
(iii)
a Local Currency Account Manual (the LCA Manual) in form and 
substance 
satisfactory to the Association, setting out the 
procedures for the 
utilization of the equivalent in FBU of 
proceeds of the Credit paid into the 
Local Currency Account.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out the the Project Project in accordance with 
the Project Project Implementation Manuals, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project 
Project Manuals (or concur in the amendment or waiver of any such provision) if, in 
the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the carrying out of the ProjectProject or the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of this paragraph, 
current primary dealers in Treasury certificates notes and private sector entities 
capable of posting the performance bonds and providing the payment guarantees payments 
required by the fForeign eExchange aAuction market criteria and procedures, 
satisfactory to the Association, shall be eligible to participate in the Foreign 
Exchange Auctions market.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project activities relating to the Programs and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
without limitation to or restriction upon its other reporting 
requirements under the provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, with effect 
from the quarter ending September 30, 2000, submit, quarterly, to the Association for 
review, progress reports on the implementation of the Project, said progress reports 
covering, among other things, (i) the status of disbursements and procurement; (ii) 
the volume of imports, as well as their clearance through the ports and transportation 
to the place of use; (iii) the effectiveness of internal distribution of goods to 
beneficiaries under the Project; (iv) the status of reconstruction activities; (v) the 
generation and use of counterpart funds; and (vi) any Project implementation issues, 
including prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Program during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure (A) the efficient carrying out of Project said activities, and (B) the 
achievement of the objectives the Projectthereof during the period following such 
Page  14
date; 
(c)
review with the Association by May 31 and November 30 of each year, or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of Projectthe said activities and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter; and 
(d)
without limitation or restriction upon any other provisions of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association financial 
statements, satisfactory to the Association, with respect to the operations of the 
Local Currency Account during the periods specified below, namely, no later than (i) 
April 30, 2001 for operations extending from the Effective Date through December 31, 
2000; (ii) October 31, 2001 for operations extending from January 1, 2001 through June 
30, 2001, (iii) April 30, 2002 for operations extending from July 1, 2001 through 
December 31, 2001; and (iv) October 31, 2002 for operations extending from January 1, 
2002 through the Closing Date.
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall, no later than May 31, 2001, carry out, jointly with 
the Association, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Projectthe 
activities relating to the Program. The midterm review shall include the progress made 
in meeting the objectives of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out, no later than one month after the 
completion of the midterm review, the recommendations of the midterm review as agreed 
with the Association and set out in an action plan for the Project satisfactory to the 
Association.
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall establish a Steering and Policy Committee. The members 
of the Steering and Policy Committee shall include (i) the Borrower’s Second Vice 
President as Chairman of the Committee; (ii) the Minister of Finance as Vice President 
of the Committee; (iii) the Ministers of Planning and Reconstruction, Peace Process 
and Industry and Commerce; and (iv) representatives of NGOs. The Steering and Policy 
Committee shall oversee, and provide guidance to, the Technical Implementation 
Committee in the discharge of its functions. 
(b)
The Borrower’s Ministry of Finance shall have overall responsibility for 
the implementation and monitoring of the Projectactivities relating to the Program, 
including coordination between various donors involved in the carrying out of the 
Projectsaid activities. Sectoral Project rehabilitation activities shall be managed by 
the respective line ministries. The Ministry of Finance shall, on a three-monthly 
basis, furnish to the Association for review detailed progress reports on the 
implementation of the Projectsaid Program activities.
(c)
The Borrower shall establish a Technical Implementation Committee in a 
form and with functions, staffing, and resources satisfactory to the Association. The 
members of the Technical Implementation Committee shall include representatives of the 
Borrower’s Ministries of Health, Education, Agriculture, and Reintegration and 
Resettlement, and the BRB. The Technical Implementation Committee shall be responsible 
for the coordination of activities required for the carrying out of the Project 
activities. 
(d)
The Borrower shall appoint and assign to the Project two accountants with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. 
(e)
Without limitation or restriction upon any other provisions of this 
Agreement, one of the accountants to be appointed under subparagraph (d) of this 
paragraph shall be responsible for dealing with matters relating to the operation of 
the Special Account, including (i) the maintenance on behalf of the Borrower of 
adequate records for deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account; (ii) the 
retention of all documentary evidence supporting transactions relating to the Special 
Account; and (iii) the preparation of statements of sources and uses of funds 
statements relating to the Special Account.
(f)
The other accountant to be appointed under said subparagraph (d) shall be 
responsible for dealing with matters relating to the operation of the Local Currency 
Page  15
Account, including: (i) the maintenance on behalf of the Borrower of adequate records 
for deposits into, and payments out of, the Local Currency Account; (ii) the retention 
of all documentary evidence supporting transactions relating to the Local Currency 
Account, and (iii) the preparation of statements of sources and uses of funds 
statements relating to the Local Currency Account.
(g)
The Borrower shall establish a Steering and Policy Committee in a form 
and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association. The 
members of the Steering and Policy Committee shall include: (i) the Borrower’s Second 
Vice President as head of the Committee; (ii) the Ministers of Finance, Planning and 
Reconstruction, Peace Process and Industry and Commerce; (iii) representatives of 
NGOs. The Steering and Policy Committee shall oversee, and provide guidance to, the 
Technical Implementation Committee in the discharge of its functions. 
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that the timing and number of of, and the volume of 
foreign exchange sold at,  the Foreign Exchange aAuctions and the volume of foreign 
exchange sold at each auction held as part of the Program activities shall be 
consistent with the capacity of the Borrower’s economy to absorb the resources 
provided under the Project.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the  Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
Page  16
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b), and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
