Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7359-EGT 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(El-Tebbin Power Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY HOLDING COMPANY 
 
Dated March 2, 2006 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7359- EGT 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated March 2, 2006, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and EGYPTIAN 
ELECTRICITY HOLDING COMPANY (EEHC). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Arab 
Republic of Egypt (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in the amount of two hundred fifty nine million six hundred thousand 
United States dollars (US$259,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that EEHC agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and EEHC, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to EEHC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS EEHC
,
in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Financial Management Manual” means CEPC’s financial management 
manual which sets out detailed financial and accounting policies and procedures for the 
Project, as may be updated from time to time by the agreement of EEHC and the Bank; 
 
(b) 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Committee” means the committee referred 
to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit, referred to in paragraph 2 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(d) 
“Procurement Implementation Manual” means CEPC’s procurement 
implementation manual, including the standard bidding documents for each procurement 
method and category, standard contracts, pre-qualification documents and standard 
evaluation reports to be used under the Project, as such manual may be updated from time 
to time by agreement of EEHC and the Bank; and 
 
(e) 
“Procurement Plan” means CEPC’s procurement plan dated 
 
August 9, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) EEHC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering, environmental, financial, management and technical 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and EEHC shall otherwise agree, EEHC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, Environmental Management Plan, Financial Management Manual and the 
Procurement Implementation Manual. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and works
 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
EEHC shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than twelve (12) 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) EEHC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, EEHC shall: 
Page  5
-
3
-
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and EEHC, a plan for the future operation of 
the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
EEHC on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. EEHC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EEHC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) EEHC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
EEHC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by EEHC of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of EEHC 
 
Section 3.01. EEHC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, engineering, environmental, financial, 
management and technical practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. EEHC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such Project-related 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) EEHC shall cause CEPC to establish, and thereafter maintain, a 
Project financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect operations and financial 
Page  6
-
4
-
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
 
(b) EEHC 
shall: 
 
(i) 
(A) 
have its consolidated financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements), for each fiscal year, audited, by the 
Borrower’s Central Auditing Organization in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing
 
standards acceptable 
to the Bank; 
 
(B) 
through CEPC, have its Project-related financial 
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements), for each fiscal year, 
audited, by independent auditors, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing
 
standards, both such 
auditors and standards to be acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
(A) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than eight (8) months after the end of each such 
year (or such other period proposed by EEHC and 
agreed to by the Bank), (x) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (b)(i)(A) of 
this Section, for such year (or such other period 
proposed by EEHC and agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (y) an opinion on such statements by said 
auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(B) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year (or such other period proposed by EEHC and 
agreed to by the Bank), (x) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (b)(i)(B) of 
this Section, for such year (or such other period 
proposed by EEHC and agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (y) an opinion on such statements by said 
auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audits of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon EEHC
’s reporting obligations set out in 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement, EEHC, through CEPC, shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the 
period not covered by the previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of EEHC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify EEHC thereof. 
 
Section 5.03. All this provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
6
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given o
r
made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For EEHC: 
 
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY HOLDING COMPANY 
 
Ramsis Street, Extension Abbassia, 
 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(202) 26165 12 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EEHC, or by 
EEHC on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed 
by its Chairman or such other person or persons as said Chairman shall designate in 
Page  9
-
7
-
writing, and EEHC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
EGYPTIAN ELECTRICITY HOLDING 
COMPANY 
 
By /s/ Fayaza Aboulnaga 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
B. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
International Competitive Bidding
.
All contracts shall be awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Section III
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts financed under the proceeds of the Loan shall 
be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1. 
EEHC shall maintain arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out 
of the Project in accordance with the Environmental Management Plan, the Financial 
Management Manual and the Procurement Implementation Manual. Except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, EEHC shall ensure not to amend or waive any provision of the 
Environmental Management Plan, Financial Management Manual and the Procurement 
Implementation Manual if, in the opinion of the Borrower or the Bank, such amendment 
or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
2. 
For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project, EEHC shall, not later than 
three (3) months after the Effective Date, enter, together with CEPC, into the CEPC 
Agreement, whose terms and conditions shall be satisfactory to the Bank, which 
agreement shall stipulate, 
inter alia,
 that: (a) CEPC shall, on behalf of EEHC, implement 
Part A of the Project; and (b) to this end, CEPC shall: (i) establish, not later than four (4) 
months after the Effective Date, the PMU, with qualified staff in adequate numbers;  
(ii) employ contractors as may be needed to carry out its obligations under the CEPC 
Agreement; (iii) prepare and submit to EEHC monthly, quarterly, and annual progress 
reports, including progress in the implementation of the Environmental Management 
Plan, together with quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports, for subsequent forwarding to 
the Bank; (iv) prepare annual Project financial statements in accordance with 
international accounting standards acceptable to the Bank; (v) ensure that its Project 
accounts are audited on an annual basis by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, 
in accordance with international auditing standards; (vi) submit annual audit reports to 
EEHC, for subsequent forwarding to the Bank, not later than six (6) months from the end 
of each Fiscal Year until completion of the Project; (vii) carry out its activities in 
accordance with sound administrative, engineering, accounting and environmental 
standards; (viii) for the duration of the Project, make available to EEHC, the Bank and 
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement all documents, books, 
and records pertaining to the activities financed under the Project; (ix) respond to queries, 
and report to EEHC findings and comments by the auditors referred to in 
 
Section 4.01(b)(i)(B) of the Project Agreement; (x) prepare and submit, through EEHC, 
to the Bank the Procurement Implementation Manual and the Financial Management 
Manual, whose substance shall be satisfactory to the Bank, not later than two (2) months 
after the date of the CEPC Agreement and six (6) months after the date of the CEPC 
Agreement, respectively; and (xi) implement Part A of the Project in accordance with the 
Environmental Management Plan, Financial Management Manual and the Procurement 
Implementation Manual. 
 
Page  12
-
10 - 
3. 
For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project, EEHC shall maintain a 
Monitoring and Evaluation Committee throughout the duration of the Project, with 
qualified staff in adequate numbers. The said Committee shall, 
inter alia
,
have 
responsibility for monitoring the implementation of Part B of the Project as well as the 
monitoring and evaluation of the performance indicators of the Project. 
 
4. 
EEHC shall ensure that: (a) no activity shall be undertaken under the Project 
involving the involuntary acquisition of land or involuntary resettlement of occupants or 
owners of such land; and (b) any such land required for the purposes of the Project shall 
be acquired on a voluntary basis. 
 
B. 
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
1. EEHC 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about October 1, 2008, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by November 1, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
 
