Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7359-EGT 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(El-Tebbin Power Project) 
 
between 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Page  2
2
Dated March 2, 2006 
 
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7359-EGT 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated March 2, 2006, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B)  
the Project will be carried out by the Egyptian Electricity Holding 
Company (EEHC) established and operating pursuant to Law No. 164 of 2000
,
with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to 
EEHC, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and EEHC (the 
Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. (a) The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modification set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(b) 
Paragraph 22 of Section 2.01 of the General Conditions shall be modified 
as follows: 
 
“22. “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread of 0.50% in respect 
of the initial Loan Currency, provided, that upon a Currency Conversion 
of all or any portion of the unwithdrawn principal amount of the Loan, 
such fixed spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the manner 
specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  4
-
2
-
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“CEPC” means the Cairo Electricity Production Company, an Egyptian 
joint stock company, wholly owned by EEHC, established and operating pursuant to Law 
No. 159 of 1981, Law No. 95 of 1992 and Law No. 164 of 2000, or any successor 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
“CEPC Agreement” means the agreement entered into between EEHC 
and CEPC, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Borrower’s environmental 
management plan for the Project furnished to the Bank on October 13, 2005, as such plan 
may be updated from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, 
setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during the 
implementation and operation of the Project to offset or reduce adverse environmental 
impacts to levels acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Fiscal Year” means, individually, the twelve (12) month period 
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s, EEHC’s or CEPC’s fiscal years, which period 
commences on July 1 and ends on June 30 in each calendar year, and the term “Fiscal 
Years” means, collectively, more than one Fiscal Year; 
 
(f) 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and 
any successor thereof; 
 
(g) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and EEHC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Statutes” means Law No. 164 of 2000 and the by-laws pertaining to the 
establishment and operation of EEHC, as amended to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(i) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and EEHC pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01(b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to EEHC. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred 
fifty nine million six hundred thousand United States dollars (US$259,600,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in 
respect of interest and other charges in respect of the Loan and any premium in respect of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with 
Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2011, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an 
amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a 
portion of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. Such fee shall 
be payable not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter, subject to 
any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to 
time. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10. EEHC is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.11. The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of 
Finance for the purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments 
with respect to the Loan. 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause EEHC to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of EEHC therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable EEHC to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall re-lend the proceeds of the Loan to EEHC under a 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and EEHC, under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) repayment of 
principal, and payment of interest, charges and premium in accordance with Article II of 
this Agreement; (ii) payment of any other charges which may be required by the 
Borrower; and (iii) foreign exchange risk to be borne by EEHC. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or 
any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by EEHC pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through EEHC, shall establish, and thereafter 
maintain, a Project financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements, all in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  8
-
6
-
(b) 
The Borrower, through EEHC, shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period proposed by the 
Borrower and agreed to by the Bank), audited, by independent
 
auditors, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
 
standards, both such auditors and standards to be acceptable to 
the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period proposed by the Borrower and agreed to by the Bank): 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year (or such other period 
proposed by the Borrower and agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
EEHC to: 
 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made;  
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the EEHC’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, the Borrower shall cause EEHC to prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report as set forth in Section 4.02 of the 
Project Agreement. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and EEHC; and 
 
(b) 
EEHC, through CEPC, shall have retained the services of a qualified 
financial consulting firm in order to achieve the objectives of Section 4.01 of the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
EEHC’s Board of Directors, and is legally binding upon EEHC in accordance with its 
terms; and 
 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and EEHC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and EEHC in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 5.03. The date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10, the Minister of International 
Cooperation of the Borrower and the Under Secretary of State for International, Regional 
and Arab Financing Organizations of the Ministry of International Cooperation of the 
Borrower, are severally designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  10
-
8
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
 
8
Adly Street, 
 
Cairo, Egypt 
 
Cable 
address: 
    Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
 
(202) 391 2815 
 
(International Cooperation Sector) 
 
(202) 391 5167 
 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By /s/ Fayza Aboulnaga 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
Page  12
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1  
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
United States dollars
to be financed
(1) Works 
216,600,000 
100% 
 
(2) Goods 
43,000,000 
100% 
 
(3) 
Premia for Interest 
0 
Amounts due under 
 
Rate Caps 
 
Section 2.09(c) 
 
and Interest Rate 
 
of this Agreement 
 Collars 
 
 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL
 
259,600,000 
 
==========
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) any expenditures under any Category in the table in paragraph 1 
above, unless the Bank has received payment in full of the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Page  13
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in enhancing energy 
supply in a sustainable manner and strengthening the power sector performance. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
El-Tebbin Power Plant
The carrying out of civil works, and the provision of goods 
and consultants’ 
services, for the construction of El-Tebbin steam power plant, including: (1) the 
demolition of existing plant and site preparation works; (2) construction and installation 
of: (a) two units of 350 MW steam turbine-generators; (b) two units of steam generators 
(boilers); (c) electrical equipment, including transformers and switchyard; (d) auxiliary 
mechanical equipment including pumps and drives, heat exchangers and de-aerators, and 
critical and non-critical piping and valves; (e) a water and waste water treatment plant;  
(f) support for the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan; and  
(g) distributed control systems and instrumentation; (3) providing engineering Project 
management services, including design, procurement and construction supervision, and 
commissioning, testing and start-up of the Project;
 
(4) carrying out of civil works, and the 
provision of yard tanks and medium and low voltage switchgear;
 
(5) provision of 
insurance services; and (6) installation of transmission lines to interconnect to the 
national power grid. 
 
Part B
:
Strengthening the Performance of the Power Sector 
1. 
Establishing automated financial management systems through the provision of 
goods and consultants’ services. 
 
2. 
Conducting a study for the design and application of time use tariffs through the 
provision of consultants’ services. 
 
3. 
Improving energy efficiency by: (a) designing a load management program, 
based on an assessment of data collected on consumption patterns of industrial and large 
commercial customers; (b) upgrading the long-run marginal cost software; and  
(c) conducting a feasibility assessment of an “interruptability” scheme, through the 
provision of goods and consultants’ services. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2010. 
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 1 and September 1 
 
Beginning March 1, 2011 through 
 
March 1, 2025 
3.33% 
 
And on September 1, 2025 
3.43% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Page  15
-
13
-
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
