Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FlE P CO?
Report No.  4717-GUB
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
APRIL 10, 1984
West Africa Projects Department
Transportation Division II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Guinea-Bissau Peso (GP)
Until Dec. 23, 1983             US$1.0  =  GP 41
GP 1 million  =  US$24,400
After Dec. 23, 1983             US$1.0  =  GP 82
GP 1 million  =  US$12,200
FISCAL YEAR
January 1st - December 31st
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNG          -  Banco Nacional da Guine Bissau
DGAT        -  Direca9o Geral de Assuntos T6cnicos (Directorate General
of Technical Affairs, MOPCU)
DGC         -  DirecgEo Geral da Construcao (Directorate General of
Construction, MOPCU)
DEP         -  Direcgo das Estradas e Pontes (Roads and Bridges
Directorate)
DTT          -  Direcgao de Transportes Terrestres (Land Transport
Directorate)
ENG          -  Estaleiro Naval da Guine (National Shipyard)
FED          -  Fonds Europ6en de Developpement (European Development Fund
of the Common Market)
FNI         -  Fondo Nacional de Investimiento (National Investment Fund)
GUINEMAR    -  National river passenger transport company
LIA         -  Linheas A6reas da Guine-Bissau
MEF          -  Ministerio da Economia e Finangas (Ministry of Economics
and Finance)
MOPCU        -  Ministerio de Obras Publicas, Construcao e Urbanismo
(Ministry of Public Works, Construction and Urban
Development)
MTT          -  Ministerio de Transportes e Turismo (Ministry of Transport
and Tourism)
SOCOMIN      -  Sociedade Comercial e Industrial
SR          -  Servico Regiao (Regional depots of MOPCU)
v.p.d.       - Vehicles per day
p.c.u       -  Passenger car unit



(iii)                         FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE.............*...............                (v)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....            .... ........   ............... (vii)
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ........... ......    ...  **           ... ** .......    1
A.  Economic Setting and Background .........e........td........    1
B.  The Transport System ........ . .......................................... .  2
C.  Administration and Planning............................                    3
D.  Public Investments. ...... ...........                      ....    3
E.  Oil Products Pricing              .......... *. ....... .                  4
F.  ID A Involvement in the Sector ................                            5
II.  HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR         ......          ... .... ..       ............ .    6
A.  General ........................... O...................................    6
B.  Traffic ..........                      .....  ........                    7
C.  Public Management, Road Maintenance and Finances ..........                9
D.  The Action Plan ..... ..0.0...06 ....................... ....................   14
III.  THE PROJECT ..............................................................   14
A.  Objectives ......   .....*  ........................ 0.   14
B.  Project Description. ....... *. ......... ..  ..............    16
C.  Project Implementation  ..........            ........ ............   22
D.  Cost Estimates ..  . . .......  .........          .......... ..*.....    22
E.  Financing Plan... . .... .........                          ...    23
F*  Procurement ...................                         ..... .....   23
G.  Disbursement ....... .......... ................                          25
H.  Reporting and Auditing...**** ........................                    27
This report has been prepared by C.J.D. Lane, Senior Highway Engineer,
J. Pelletey, Economist, and A. Covindassamy, Economist/Financial Analyst,
WAPT2, on the basis of an appraisal mission in March 1983. Most secretarial
work was done by Ms. Griest and M. Kashyap.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(iv)
Table of Contents (continued)
IV .  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ........... .      ............... ........ .  28
A.    General ........... 0.......................................  28
B.  Road Rehabilition and Maintenance Program ..... .........   29
C.    Routine  Maintenance ........................... O-# ....... . . . . .  30
D.  Ferries Component .............................. .......  31
E. Maintenance Expenditures Recovery ...o ............ .........  31
F.  Distribution of Project Benefits ......................  32
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS........................   33
ANNEXES
2-1   Ministry of Public Works, Construction and Urban Development
(MOPCU) - Future Organization Chart
2-2   An Action Plan
2-3   Training Program
3-1   Road Rehabilitation Program
3-2   Design Standards
3-3   List of Equipment
3-4   Equipment to be Purchased
3-5   Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Team
3-6   Project Costs
3-7   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4-1   Average Vehicle Operating Costs by Road Category and
Conditions
4-2   Annual Comparison of Condition of the Roads with and without
the Proposed Project
4-3  Paved Roads Rehabilitation Program - Basic Assumptions
4-4   Gravel Roads Rehabilitation Program - Basic Assumptions
4-5   Earth Roads Rehabilitation Program - Basic Assumptions
4-6   Cost Benefit Analysis - Rehabilitation Program
4-7   Cost Benefit Analysis - Routine Maintenance Program
4-8   Cost Benefit Analysis - Ferry Rehabilitation Component
4-9   Recurrent Expenditures Recovery
4-10  Distribution of Benefit Flows
Map IBRD 17300R



(v)
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Project File Code/
Ref. No.   DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE    Bank Document No.
1       Transpo- t6nctor Memorandum WAPT2,            Report 3942-GUB
June 1982 (Transport Sector Bank
Reports)
2       Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance           Doc # 128.444(B)
Program, Techno-Economic Study,
Louis Berger International,
December 1982
3       Second Roads Project, Planning                Doc # 128.444(C)
Budgeting and Organisation of Works,
Louis Berger International, April 1983
4       General Transport Study, Lavalin              Doc # GUB 800
International/Delcanda, August 1980
5       Equipment Needs Evaluation, Louis             Doc # 128.444(D2)
Berger International, June 1983
6       Bissau Port Project, Staff Appraisal          GUB-CR 1392, Bank Rpts.
Report (No 4311 GUB, May 1983)
7       Guinea Bissau:  An Introductory               GUB-LEAP Bank Rpts.
Economic Report, IDA, June 1981
(Report No. 3529 GUB)
8       Notes on Road and Ferry Traffic               Docs # 128.444 (E & F)
(Appraisal Mission, 1983)
9       Notes on Economic Evaluation                  Docs # 220.034 (Q, to Q5)
(Appraisal Mission, 1983)
WAPT2
Mar. 84






(vii)
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Beneficiary:       Ministry of Public Works, Construction and Urban Develop-
ment (MOPCU) and Ministry of Transport and Tourism (MTT)
Amount:            SDR 3.9 million (US$4.00 million equivalent) from IDA.
SDR 3.9 million (US$4.00 million equivalent) from the
Special Fund administered by IDA
Terms:             Standard
On-lending Terms:  None
Project
Description:       The project would assist MOPCU to build up its new organi-
zation and continue the rehabilitation of its road network
begun under the ongoing First Roads Project (Cr. 878-GUB,
approved in January 1979) and address important institution
building objectives in the transport sector. The principal
components of the project are: (a) rehabilitation of about
500 km of roads; (b) establishment of a routine maintenance
service; (c) training; (d) improvement of the ferry service
at key crossings; and (e) assistance with management of the
sector to MTT and MOPCU.
Project Benefits
and Risks:         The project would benefit the country by reopening roads
neglected since independence, and by reducing transport
costs on 500 km of roads. The project would also postpone
future rises in vehicle operating costs and future costs
for expensive reconstruction by assuring effective routine
maintenance. Improvements to the ferry service would
reduce the severe disruption to internal and external
communications caused by frequent breakdowns.
The project is a direct follow up to IDA's First Roads
Project (Cr. 878-GUB) during which three rehabilitation
brigades were equipped and trained, and the supporting
administrative and workshop facilities built up, so the
physical components present few risks. The fiscal and
administrative reforms to be set up to improve management
of the sector may be hampered by a general lack of adminis-
trative experience in this country. Even with 95% donor
financing there is a risk that Government will have diffi-
culty with counterpart financing. This risk would be



(viii)
addressed by requiring, as a condition of effectiveness,
that the government deposit its first year's contribution
into a special account.
Estimated Project Costs (US$'000):
Local       Foreign       Total
Road Rehabilitation          1,310         5,240        6,550
Routine Maintenance             198        2,190        2,388
Training                          9          200          209
Ferries                          12          364          376
Assistance to DTT                 3           61           64
Assistance to MOPCU              59        1,395        1,454
Total Base Cost           1,591         9,450       11,041
Physical Contingencies      147           956        1,103
Price Contingencies         228         1,463        1,691
Total Project Cost        1,966        11,869       13,835
Rounded        2,000        11,800       13,800
Financing Plan (US$'000)
Local          Foreign            Total      L
Special Fund Administered
by IDA                        1,222            2,778            4,000      (29)
IDA                                  28            3,972            4,000     (29)
Kuwait Fund                          50            5,050            5,100      (37)
Government                          700              --               700       (5)
2,000  (15%)   11,800  (85%)   13,800    (100)
Estimated Disbursements from
the IDA Credit (US$ million)
FY85     FY86      FY87     FY88      FY89     FY90      FY91
Annual         0.42       .88      1.01     0.82      0.53     0.29      0.05
Cumulative     0.42      1.30      2.31     3.13      3.66     3.95      4.00
Estimated Disbursements from
the Special Fund administered
by IDA (US$ million)
FY85     FY86      FY87     FY88      FY89     FY90      FY91
Annual         0.42      0.88      1.01     0.82      0.53     0.29      0.05
Cummulative    0.42      1.30      2.31     3.13      3.66     3.95      4.00
Economic Rate of Return:  37%
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 4717-GUB, dated April 12, 1984
Map: IBRD 17300R
WAPT2
Apr. 1984



GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting and Background
1.01     The Government of Guinea-Bissau has requested a second IDA
credit to continue the road rehabilitation begun under the First Roads
Project. The project would include the rehabilitation of a further
500 km of roads, improve vital ferry crossings and address a wide range
of basic institutional objectives. The project grew out of the ongoing
project as a logical "next step," as a result of a continuing dialogue
between IDA and the Government since 1978. It was appraised in March
1983 by an IDA team consisting of Jeremy Lane, Senior Highway Engineer
and Jean Pelletey, Economist. IDA has been involved in the country's
transport sector since our first visit there after Guinea-Bissau joined
the Bank, in FY1978, when the sector was identified as crucial to post-
war recovery. Other donors have financed individual projects but IDA
remains the only donor making a serious attempt at rehabilitation of the
existing network and the creation of an institutional framework for mana-
gement of the sector and the maintenance of its infrastructure. The
rationale for IDA's continuing involvement is that the first project only
began the task and there remains much work of a clear and undisputed
priority to be done; continuity is essential, and IDA has extensive expe-
rience in this field and region. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development has agreed to co-finance the project for 37%. The proposed
IDA credit of US$4.0 million equivalent would finance 29% of the project,
and the proposed Special Fund credit for US$4.0 million would also
finance 29% of the project. The Government would finance the remaining
5% (para. 3.21).
1.02     Guinea Bissau is a small nation of about 810,000 inhabitants
located on the West African coast between Senegal and Guinea Conakry.
Together with the archipelago of Bijagos, the country covers an area of
36,135 km 2. The territory is generally flat with a few hills in the
eastern region. The western coast of the country is deeply indented by
seven estuaries, making road and river transport highly interdependent.
1.03     With a per capita GDP of about US$190 (1982 estimate), Guinea
Bissau is one of the 20 poorest countries in the world. Its main resource
base is agriculture (50% of GDP), mostly rice in the south and groundnuts
in the northeast, supplemented by livestock, cotton, and palm kernel in
the islands and the north. In the past the economic situation has been



- 2 -
difficult; the country suffered from the lack of economic infrastructure,
partly destroyed during the struggle for independence and also from a
lack of administrative capacity, mainly at the middle level, following
the exodus of the Portuguese.
1.04     Guinea-Bissau's external payments position remains difficult.
Between 1977 and 1981, imports of goods and services grew by as much as
20% per annum, while exports grew by an average of 8% per annum only,
leading to a resource balance gap equal to 30% of GDP. The country is
confronted with a persistent shortage of foreign currency, making savings
on imports (as well as export stimulation) a major concern for the Gov-
ernment.
B. The Transport System
1.05     The country's transport network comprises:
(a)   2,300 km of roads, of which 485 km are paved, some 412 km
are all-weather laterite roads, and the remainder are
earth roads and rural roads (para. 2.01), plus 95 km of
paved town streets;
(b)   a deepwater port at Bissau and about 27 small coastal and
river ports located in the islands and along the main
estuaries and rivers; and
(c)   an international airport at Bissau and some 17 small land-
ing strips, all Government owned.
1.06     Bissau Port handles about 140,000 tons per year, of which 90,000
are international traffic. It plays a central role in the domestic
transport system handling a large part of the commercialized agricultural
production for about 50,000 tons per year, including, for about 25,000
tons, rice from the south to supply Bissau and agricultural exports such
as groundnuts, palm kernels, cashews, etc. A total of about 73,000 pas-
sengers uses the coastal shipping lines annually, of whom about two-
thirds pass through Bissau.
1.07     Although there was neglect and damage during the war of inde-
pendence, and maintenance is still inadequate, the nature and extent of
the transport network is in general sufficient for the present needs of
the country; details of the transportation system are given in the Trans-
port Sector Memorandum dated June 11, 1982 (ref. 1), and in the Bissau
Port Project Staff Appraisal Report (Report 4311, Cr. 1392 (ref. 6)). 1'
1/ Documents available in the Project File are listed in page iv and are
referred to in this report by their number on that page.



- 3 -
C. Administration and Planning
1.08     Transport planning up to now has been hampered by a lack of
qualified staff and is characterized by poor co-ordination between the
ministries and public bodies concerned. This has resulted in serious
difficulties in recent years in the transport of agricultural products to
Bissau, and in the distribution of import goods to the regions, including
food relief during the drought. However, the Government is now strongly
committed to undertaking the necessary reforms to improve transport effi-
ciency.
1.09     A significant step has been made with the completion in 1980 of
the General Transport Study (ref. 4), financed by the African Development
Bank (AfDB) and executed by consultant Lavalin-Delcanda (Canada). The
study identified investment priorites in the sector, and provided useful
recommendations on institutional reforms necessary to increase efficien-
cy. While in the past Government priorities were aimed to a large extent
at rehabilitating and upgrading the transport network (mainly roads), the
present objectives are more diversified: Government policy now empha-
sizes the reconstruction of Bissau Port, the development of a more effi-
cient bi-modal road/river transport system in the south, and of road
transport in the north and east. The ongoing 1983-86 four-year Develop-
ment Plan includes:
(a)   concentration of capital investment in the most urgent
rehabilitation works, i.e., the Port of Bissau, the river
ports, and the continuation of the road rehabilitation
program;
(b)   development of the force account maintenance capability of
the Ministry of Public Works, Construction and Urban
Development (MOPCU);
(c)   improvements in Ministry of Transport and Tourism (MTT)
for better planning and sector management;
(d)   modification of the existing inadequate institutional
framework of the sector by the creation of a National
Transport Company and increasing the role of independent
transporters;
(e)   rehabilitation of the ferry system, and improvement of its
operations; and
(f)   improvement of road user cost recovery and road mainte-
nance funding.
D. Public Investments
1.10     In recent years the Government has given high priority to the
expansion and rehabilitation of the transport infrastructure and renewal



- 4 -
of transport equipment. The table below shows that during the 1978-81
period an annual average of about GP 930 million, representing about 27%
of the total investment budget, was allocated to the sector.
Public Investment
(GP million)
1978      1979       1980       1981
Total Investment Budget            2,271      3,283     5,521      3,173
of which Transportasion              832        710      1,441       772
Dollar equivalent a/ (millions)   24.5         20.8       43.7      22.7
as a percentage of total           37%        22%        26%       24%
Source: GUB Economic Report, 1981 (ref. 7).
a/ Current dollars.
About 99% of these investments were financed by foreign aid. About 50%
of total public investment in the sector was spent on road development,
33% on sea and river transport, mainly for the purchase of transport
equipment, and 15% on air transport. The distribution of these invest-
ments reflects the needs of the country. The major problem encountered
in the execution of the investment program has been the shortage of tech-
nical and medium-level management staff capable of administering project
implementation and undertaking the necessary maintenance works required
after project completion. The second area of concern has been the finan-
cing of recurrent costs of the projects. In order to overcome the coun-
try's limited capacity for administering projects, technical assistance
and training are important. Since both require continuity and time to
become effective, the Government's and IDA's strategy to implement a
succession of follow-on projects of limited size, rather than fewer
large-scale ones, is appropriate.
E. Oil Products Pricing
1.11     Until 1978, retail prices for petroleum products generally moved
in line with CIF import costs and domestic inflation. Increases in sub-
sequent years were insufficient to match the large increases in import
costs which took place in 1979-80. Following a 20% increase in
March 1983, retail prices of petroleum at present are above the CIF im-
port cost plus delivery cost, with the exception of diesel fuel which
still receives a very small subsidy. However, fuel taxes are still in-
sufficient. They do not cover road user costs (Annex 2-3, Tables 2 and
3), because of insufficient taxation level and widespread tax exemption
for the public sector. In addition, insufficient fuel price for road
users may cause non-optimal modal allocation between roads and rivers.
Following the December 23, 1983 devaluation of the GP by 100%, urgent
action is needed to increase proceeds from fuel taxes. The Government is
taking action in three steps: (a) in the short run, all tax exemptions
have been suppressed; (b) as agreed during negotiations fuel prices will



be increased and taxes doubled up to GP 15 per liter on gasoline and
GP 15 on diesel fuel, by September 30, 1984; (c) in the long run, fuel
prices will be adjusted to the economically optimal level, following the
completion of a study on fuel price financed under the Second Petroleum
Exploration Project and a study on fuel taxation and administrative
organizatior of tax collection, financed under the Bissau Port Project.
F. IDA Involvement in the Sector
1.12     IDA strategy in Guinea Bissau is focussed on helping to create
the conditions necessary for the long-term development of the economy.
The IDA lending program for 1982-86 includes five projects, of which two
are in the transport sector. IDA's First Roads Project and Port Project
have been very useful, concentrating on urgent rehabilitation works, and
assisting the Government in formulating policy and in undertaking much
needed institutional reform.
1.13     IDA's First Roads Project (Cr. 878-GUB, signed February 9, 1979,
US$ 9 million) is still under disbursement. It is to provide for the
rehabilitation and maintenance of 564 km of roads (226 km of asphalt
roads and 338 km of gravel roads), plus equipment, spare parts and tech-
nical assistance. Presently three operating brigades are in the field,
supported by adequate stores and workshop services. By February 1983,
384 km of rehabilitation had been completed, and another 100 km will
probably have been completed by the time funds are exhausted.
1.14     The experience drawn from the the execution of the First Roads
Project are:
(a)   Due to very difficult local conditions for document prepa-
ration and international communication, procurement is
more lengthy than normal;
(b)   Because of the acute foreign currency shortage, all pay-
ments abroad are subject to cumbersome clearance proce-
dures. To ensure that spare parts for equipment are read-
ily available, it is necessary to establish a revolving
fund in an internationally accepted commercial bank;;
(c)   Skilled labor and intermediate level staff are in very
short supply, in the public sector and in the country in
general, and the local formal training system is under-
developed. Therefore it is necessary to continue and
expand the successful training component of the First
Roads Project for vocational training. For higher level
staff, training must combine courses abroad, and most of
all, on-the-job training for management and task organiza-
tion with expatriate experts;



(d)   Local staff shows an exceptionally high motivational
level, which led to good results in the organization of
the maintenance brigades; and
(e)   Because of the very difficult local conditions, selection
of consultants and technical assistance selection must be
conducted very carefully, and only people with previous
experience in the country should be retained. There were
several resignations in the consultant teams during the
First Roads Project.
1.15     IDA's Bissau Port Project (Cr. 1392-GUB, signed July 19, 1983,
SDR 14.9 million) was presented to the Board in June, 1983. It provides
for rehabilitation of the existing T-shaped pier which is seriously da-
maged and deteriorating, the building of five small river ports to serve
coastal shipping, and repairs to four ferry ramps which will greatly im-
prove intermodal efficiency. The project also includes major institution
building components for port operation and management, transport industry
reorganization and transport planning. Under this project, the Port Au-
thority was given, in June 1983, a legal status with commercial ac-
counting and management systems. The Port project also requires Govern-
ment to make a study of road user taxation, the results of which will be
used in implementing the Action Plan.
II. HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. General
2.01     The road network (see map) is more than adequate in extent and
the percentage of paved roads in the network is quite high.
Road Network
(km)
Primary    Regional    Tertiary    Total
Paved                     485           --           --         485
Engineered Gravel          --           95          317         412
Gravel or Earth             --                    1,403       1,403
Total            485           95        1,720      2,300
Source: General Transport Study.
The focus of present Government policy is to concentrate on upgrading
this network to provide all-weather links from the provinces to Bissau,
and to Senegal and Guinea (Conakry) and to eliminate the maintenance
backlog. On completion of the proposed project, 1,122 km, i.e. all the



- 7 -
paved and gravel roads and 16% of earth roads, will have been rehabili-
tated.
2.02     The only major road improvements made since Independence (1974)
have been (a) the reconstruction and paving of the Jugudul-Bambadinca
Road (58 km) financed by the African Development Bank; and (b) the high-
way to Bissau airport (8 km) financed by the Dutch Government. The first
project rebuilt the missing link in the east-west spine of the country
and was well justified. The airport highway is of questionable justifi-
cation; started in 1978, it was not complete by the time of appraisal of
the proposed project. Major works planned at present are the upgrading
of the Mpack (Senegal) - Sao Vicente Road (70 km, US$5 million) and the
reconstruction of the bridge over the Rio Camposa (US$3 million) at the
entrance to Bambadinca, both projects of strategic and economic import-
ance, and being financed by FED.
B. Traffic
2.03     Traffic volumes are low even on trunk roads, and because of
fluctuating agricultural production, growth is modest. However, there is
a large traffic between outlying areas and neighboring countries carrying
unrecorded trade. Tne section of the main east-west spine of the network
included in the proposed project (i.e. Bambadinca-Gabfu) carries more than
200 vehicles per day (v.p.d.); a similar number of vehicles take the Joao
Landim ferry to reach the fertile Cacheu region. Other main distributors
carry 50-100 vpd, but traffic on rural feeder roads is generally below 25
vpd, except at harvest time. Details of traffic on the project roads and
growth rates assumed are given in Chapter IV.
Vehicle Fleet
2.04     Latest vehicle registration statistics show the total fleet as
follows:
National Vehicle Fleet in 1981
(Number of vehicles)
Cars                  1,617
Pick-ups                574
Trucks                  760
Buses                   158
Mini-buses              237
3,346
Recent vehicle registrations have been as follows:



- 8 -
Annual New Vehicle Registrations
(Number of vehicles)
Minibuses,
Pickups
& cars        Trucks      Buses     Total
1977            136            11          4        151
1978            116            23          -        139
1979             80            16          -         96
1980            166            65         36        267
1981            660            98         19        777
Source:  For both tables, Anuario Estatistico MTT, February 1982e
The variation in these figures is partly due to production levels in the
national Citroen assembly plant which in turn is dependent on Govern-
ment's success at obtaining financing for the assembly kits. The big in-
crease in 1981 is also due to a recent growth in the number of diplomatic
and aid personnel, whose vehicles accounted for about one third of new
registrations in 1981.
land Transport
2.05     In 1981, passenger movements by land were almost 3.7 million
passengers. The national bus company for passenger transport, Silo-
Diata, which transported 2,5 million passengers in FY1981, of which 1,6
million were within the metropolitan region of Bissau. Severe management
problems were encountered in 1982, leading to the closing down of the
firm in 1983. Several possible rehabilitation schemes are being examined
by the Government, including partial or total privatization. There is
also a private sector for which only a vehicle and an operator's licence
are necessary to go into business. The last three years have seen the
introduction and significant growth in the "bush taxi" business; based on
a 1-ton pickup with canopy, licensed for mixed goods and passengers.
2.06     At present, freight moved by land is in the hands of the two
state trading companies, Armazens do Povo and SOCOMIN, and the private
sector, which accounts for 40% of freight movements. Road transport
accounts for about 45% of the total freight moved, or an estimated 42,000
tons in 1981. A report prepared by CADIC-Harris Consultants (Belgium) on
the creation of a National Transport Company is under review by MTT which
favors its early creation. The report is in agreement with the Action
Plan for Sector Institution Building included in IDA's Port Project. It
proposes to give the current transport function of Armazen do Povo,
SOCOMIN and other haulers within Government to a National Transport Com-
pany to be created (the trading companies would henceforth concentrate on
trade), and to strengthen the private sector so as to increase its market
share in the long run. This will be achieved through improved taxation
of own account trucking and private truckers, creation of a professional
board of transporters to facilitate import of spare parts. This is
addressed under the IDA Port Project. The National Transport Company
would also inherit GUINEMAR's coastal and river transport functions.



- 9 -
C. Public Management, Road Maintenance and Finances
Planning
2.07     Transport planning is the function of MTT and subsidiarily of
MOPCU, with the Secretariat of State for Planning fulfilling a coordi-
nating role. MTT needs more support at the middle level and with equip-
ment. Proper coordination, however, has been lacking and potential
donors have found it difficult to obtain a coherent picture of what
investment or assistance was actually needed.
2.08     Both MTT and MOPCU are now better organized and better staffed
than they were at the time of negotiations for the first project in 1979.
A Department of Planning and Studies has been created in MTT as a pre-
requisite to the technical assistance to be supplied under the Port Proj-
ect in 1984. A similar unit has been created in MOPCU. In order to
ensure that the amounts allocated to road maintenance are used in a man-
ner consistent with sound pavement management principles, and that main-
tenance funding is not prejudiced by incommensurate capital investments,
the Government agreed during negotiations to present to IDA for its com-
ments by May 31, 1985 and annually by July 31 thereafter its road invest-
ment and maintenance program, and its annual budget proposal and mainte-
nance program for the following fiscal year.
Directorate of Land Transport
2.09     The Directorate of Land Transport (DTT), a part of MTT, is res-
ponsible for administration of the subsector; its duties cover vehicle
licencing and inspection, driver licencing, licencing of public transport
operators, policing load regulations, road safety and signing, and the
keeping of records on all these activities. Many of these activities are
in practice pursued in a very rudimentary fashion, and the project will
help DTT address three tasks more efficiently - axle load control, road
safety and signing, and record keeping (para. 3.15).
The Ministry of Public Works, Construction and Housing (MOPCU)
Past and Present Organization
2.10     MOPCU is a large, sprawling ministry responsible for urban de-
velopment, housing, road maintenance and construction, and civil engi-
neering works. It has a large number of employees (1,750) but little
working equipment or recurrent budget. Concerning road maintenance, the
organization was weak at the time of execution of the First Road Project.
Hence, a special department in MOPCU was created on an experimental basis
under IDA's first project to run three Road Rehabilitation brigades oper-
ating for road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance. This unit
created many of its own procedures, paid its own employees, had its own
workshop but had little contact with MOPCU's Roads and Bridges Direct-
orate (DEP). However, good counterpart staff and eminently trainable
employees were transferred from elsewhere within the Ministry or re-
cruited from outside, to staff the unit and man the brigades.



- 10 -
Envisaged Reorganization
2.11     The Government has undertaken an extensive reorganization of
MOPCU (Annex 2-1), including the reorganization of the Road and Bridges
sector, which is included in the project Action Plan (Annex 2-2). The
reorganization is geared toward (a) improving management, accounting and
administrative procedures; (b) developing urban planning activities, in
order to handle the obvious urban problems in Bissau; (c) developing a
national legislation and standards for house construction; and (d) pursu-
ing the reorganization of road maintenance, through improved efficiency
and better funding. The reorganization plan for road maintenance pre-
sented by the Government at negotiations is in three stages. Firstly,
the Road Rehabilitation brigades created under the First Roads Project
(para. 2.10) will be integrated in the DEP. Secondly, the present
Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DEP), which has a rather low level in
the present organizational system of MOPCU in view of its staff number
and expenditure level, will be upgraded into a General Directorate,
directly under the Secretary General of MOPCU by December 31, 1985. This
move comes as confirmation of the growing importance attributed by the
Government to road maintenance. In a third step, the Directorate General
for Roads and Bridges would be transformed into an autonomous Highway
Authority, in the interest of improved managerial efficiency and flexibi-
lity. This plan was considered satisfactory and compatible with the
Action Plan (para. 2.22). Hence, the proposed project will finance tech-
nical assistance for the reorganization as a whole, and more particularly
for road maintenance (para. 3.16).
Staffing and Training
2.12     MOPCU was established after independence in 1975 with more than
3,500 employees, most of whom were either civilian workers of the Portu-
guese military engineers or people promised a government job for their
part in the independence struggle. The Ministry has succeeded in re-
ducing this number to 1,750 employees. After the reorganization referred
to in para. 2.11, there will be 464 employees working on roads in Guinea
Bissau (350 from the First project and 114 currently working for DEP).
As the backlog of rehabilitation is reduced, this number will be too high
for a permanent force and the Government agreed during negotiations to
review staffing levels with IDA by October 31 of each year and gradually
reduce the staff of the newly organized DEP to 400 by June 30, 1988. The
transfer of the administration of all project personnel to MOPCU's per-
sonnel division by December 31, 1984 is included in the Project Action
Plan (para. 2.23).
2.13     Almost all staff need training.  The project provides for train-
ing for the staff of existing brigades, and all existing DEP staff will
receive ad hoc training for their new positions in the routine mainte-
nance structure (paras. 3.11, 3.12 and Annex 2-3). The previous project
included a successful training component for mechanics, and created and
equipped a small training center which will be sufficient for the pro-
posed project. There is a possibility that FED could independently



- 11 -
finance four man-years of mechanical instructors (two men for 2 years) at
about the same time as the proposed project. This could be done in co-
operation with the IDA-financed component, but it is not critical to the
achievement of project objectives.
Routine Maintenance
2.14     At the start of the first project, routine maintenance was li-
mited to patching of bitumen roads and small stretches of regraveling,
many so badly in need that it was becoming a losing battle. As a result
of low equipment availability and a lack of funding for little other than
salaries, maintenance on gravel roads was negligible and thus few roads
were in a state that made routine maintenance feasible. There was also a
lack of middle-level managers to maintain a regional MOPCU presence, and
most of the best people in DEP were transferred to the first project,
under which they have received management and operational training but in
a somewhat "enclave" type of organization. The first project also esta-
blished a depot at Buba, a central point in the Quinara/Tombali region,
consisting of a workshop building with stores and offices, and housing
for senior and junior staff. Under the proposed project, similar facili-
ties will be built at Gabu (for the Gabui/Bafata regions) and at Farim
(for the Cacheu/Oio region). The depots will also serve the three Reha-
bilitation Brigades when operating for periodic maintenance in the vici-
nity.
Road Rehabilitation
2.15     The road network needs to be put in a maintainable condition.
The major component of the project is the continuation of the road reha-
bilitation program begun under the previous project. Three rehabili-
tation brigades have been formed and trained, and they have built up
momentum, esprit de corps and experience; furthermore, something that is
often intended but not always achieved in projects of this nature--the
brigades are all headed by qualified Guineans and have been so for at
least a year.
2.16     With a modest component of equipment replacement and the filling
of obvious gaps, the brigades will remain substantially as before: one
for bitumen resurfacing and two for laterite roads. The 500 km program
will require three seasons of construction work by the three brigades.
Ferries
2.17     The territory of Guinea Bissau is intersected by seven rivers
with wide estuaries, along the margins of which live much of the popu-
lation. This means that ferry crossings are an important factor in the
continuity of the road network. Until January 1983, all river ferries
were operated by the provincial administrations in which they were situ-
ated. Two ferries operating over 15 km of open water (Bissau-Enxude and
Cacheu-Sgo Domingos) were in the hands of GUINEMAR, the national maritime
agency under MTT. This system worked very poorly and resulted in ferries
being out of service for months at a time, obliging vehicles to make long



- 12 -
detours. In January 1983 the Government transferred to MOPCU responsi=
bility for the operation and maintenance of the four major river ferries:
Joao Landim, Sao Vicente, Farim, and Ch6-Ch6. 1/  The two sea crossing
ferries will be transferred to the National Transport Company when it is
created (para 2.06).
2.18     Joao Landim, Sao Vicente, and Farim are important crossings:
for example, if either of the first two ferries are not able to function,
the detour to reach Zinguinchor in Senegal is some 270 km, compared to
130 km by the direct route. To ensure continuity of these crossings,
MOPCU has set up an autonomous organization to operate and maintain the
ferries.  The project will help by providing maintenance faci'lities and
technical assistancc for management. Repairs to the landing ramps Will
also be made (para. 3.13 and 3.14).
2.19     These measures will vastly improve over the present situation,
but by no means constitute a final solution. There remains the question
of the creation of some reserve capacity, for which there are short and
long-term solutions. For the long term, a study of the appropriate
organization and ferry fleet requirements, including reserve vessels and
engines, will be financed by the project. For the short term, the
project will provide an emergency capacity in the form of a ferryboat
carrying up to six cars or two lorries.
Road Maintenance Financing and Road User Charges
2.20     MOPCU's operations are financed through the central administra-
tion budget, which covers salaries of civil servants and general admin's-
tration expenses and a very small budget for fuel, spare parts and
machinery. The National Investment Fund (FNI) covers salaries of non-
civil servants and certain specified direct labor works or small con-
tracts. 2/ Total past highway expenditures are given on the next page.
1/ In May 1983, they carried 235, 39, 105 and 9 p.c.u.'s daily respec-
tively.
2/ The FNI investment budget for roads has been unchanged at
GP60 million (US$0.7 million) for four years.



- 13 -
Total Government Expenditure
for Highways
(GP million)
Maintenance              1979        1980        1981       1982
Salaries               15.5        20.2       28.5        28.5
Equipment               7.5        11.2        4.9         4.9
Fuel                    5.0         6.7        5.5         5.5
Overhead                2.3         3.8        3.8         3.8
Sub-total            30.3       41.9        42.7        42.7
Rehabilitation &
Construction            126.8       217.7      330.5       320.0
Total               157.1      259.6       373.2       362.7
Source: MOPCU and mission estimate.
Expenditures for rehabilitation and new construction were mostly financed
by foreign aid and adequately reflect the importance of transport among
the nation's other priorities; maintenance expenditures, on the other
hand, were inadequate and will be increased following implementation of
the Action Plan (Annex 2-2 and para. 2.21).
2.21     In order to ensure that funds for road maintenance are available
in a timely and regular manner, that the funds are utilized efficiently,
that payments to local suppliers and contractors are promptly made, and
in the longer run, that local private firms have access to public con-
tracts in the sector, in competition with MOPCU, the Government agreed
during negotiations to establish a Road Fund on conditions acceptable to
IDA by January 1, 1985. Its operation is detailed in the Action Plan
(Annex 2-2, paras. 9 & 10). The Road Fund will also be a preparatory
step for the creation of an autonomous Highway Authority (para. 2.11).
The Road Fund will be responsible for collecting earmarked taxes on fuels
and vehicle imports as well as proceeds from ferries operation, managing
the funds collected, allocating funds to MOPCU for the execution of the
annual road maintenance program, and financing some of capital invest-
ments (including their financial cost) in the road sector. It will also
finance the operation and maintenance of the ferries operated by MOPCU,
make payments for road maintenance on behalf of MOPCU, and be responsible
for monitoring the proper utilization of its funds for road mainte-
nance. The Road Fund being essentially a financial entity, its staff
will be limited to a dozen employees. Its legal status will be that of a
public firm, with managerial and financial autonomy, organized on a
commercial basis. Its staff should be hired under private contracts.
The resources of the Road Fund will be channeled directly from the sole
importer-distributer of fuels, DICOL, to the banking account of the Road
Fund in BNG, with control over DICOL's monthly sales, and from the ferry
operating department in MOPCU.



- 14 -
D. The Action Plan
2.22     To put maintenance funding and cost recovery from road users on
a rational footing, an Action Plan has been prepared (Annex 2-2). The
Plan is annexed to the Credit Agreement and Government agreed to it
during negotiations. The plan establishes a road network to be main-
tained, growing in step with progress of the proposed project within an
established timetable. It also provides for a minimum budget required to
maintain this network, and thus, the minimum revenue required from
various road user charges by the dates specified. Underpinning the fea-
sibility of the Plan is the fact that if agreed upon tax levels (para.
1.11) were applied to current fuel import levels, a sizeable revenue
(Annex 2-2, table 3 and para. 8), adequate for all routine and periodic
maintenance would result. The Plan calls for improving tax collection and
maintaining a level of tax revenue from all sources equal to the cost of
road maintenance, both routine and periodic. If available funds were to
exceed needs for road maintenance, the Government should agree annually
with the Association, beginning in FY1985, on tax revenue to be trans-
ferred directly to the treasury (Annex 2-2, para 10 and para. 4.12-4.13).
2.25     In order to ensure an efficient utilization of the funds for
road maintenance, the DEP in MOPCU will be reorganized under the Action
Plan as indicated in para. 2.11, and personnel administration for road
maintenance will be reorganized (para. 2.12 and Annex 2-2, para. 11).
2.24     Significant improvements are also needed in record keeping, cost
accounting and budgeting in MOPCU.  Tnis was not covered in the First
Roads Project. In order to establish a simple cost accounting and budg-
eting system, two years will be necessary: one for implementation and
one for testing, with training for the accountants being conducted in
parallel. On the basis that consultant can be in Bissau by January 1985,
the cost accounting and budgeting system will be effective by June 1987
(Annex 2-2, Action Plan, para. 11). The technical assistance team pro-
posed to assist MOPCU with the implementation of the project (para. 3.17)
comprises two accountants who will institute and operate new procedures
in step with training efforts. As experience with the first project has
shown, dramatic progress should not be expected, but by the end of 1987
an accurate breakdown of actual expenditures should be possible together
with the establishment of a framework for budgeting.
II. THE PROJECT
A.  Oetv
3.01     The proposed project is largely a follow-up to the current First
Roads Project, and its objectives are to continue the road rehabilitation
program, establish a routine maintenance capacity within the MOPCU and
address other institution-building objectives. The project also aims to
establish an adequate system of road user charges and road maintenance
financing.



- 15 -
To meet these objectives the components of the project are as follows:
(a)   the rehabilitation of about 200 km of paved roads and
about 300 km of unpaved roads;
(b)   the establishment of a routine road maintenance capacity
based in Bissau and in the Buba, Farim and Gabu regions;
(c)   the continuation of training for all levels of MOPCU
staff;
(d)   equipment and assistance to MOPCU for its ferry oper-
ations;
(e)   assistance to MOPCU for general management, public
accounting, and urban planning; and
(f)   assistance to the DTT of the Ministry of Transport and
Tourism (MTT).
3.02     The project will finance:
(a)   the purchase or rehabilitation of road construction machi-
nery and vehicles together with spare parts for three
years of operations;
(b)   road-building materials: bitumen, steel, cement, culverts,
etc.;
(c)   road maintenance equipment and contracts, equipment for
DTT, and civil works for the training center for road
maintenance;
(d)   fuels and lubricants;
(e)   wages and salaries;
(f)   the supply of a 20-ton ferry boat with its spare parts, a
mobile workshop, and spare parts for four existing fer-
ries;
(g)   technical assistance to MOPCU and DTT for project execu-
tion and training, a study of the long-term needs of the
ferry services; and
(h)   technical assistance to MOPCU for general organization,
public accounting and urban development.



- 16 -
B. Project Description
Road Rehabilitation
3.03     Three brigades were established under the first project, two of
which have been operating since November 1980 and one since December
1981. It is now proposed to repair and strengthen the equipment fleet
for a further three years' work. About 500 km of roads will be rehabili-
tated under the proposed project of which about 200 km are paved and 300
km laterite or earth.  The program (Annex 3-1) has been drawn up follow-
ing consultation with the Secretariat of State, the Ministries of Rural
Development, Transport and Tourism, and Commerce, and with other aid
agencies involved in agricultural and rural development. From a preli-
minary list totalling 920 km, selection of the 500 km program was made
using economic criteria, based on a report prepared by consultant Louis
Berger International (USA) (Ref. 2). Design standards are shown in Annex
3-2. The work is expected to take three dry seasons. It should be under-
stood that the 500 km figure is a target figure, and that as many
kilometers may be rehabilitated as funds permit. However, the road
rehabilitation program will be subject to the Association's approval and
any section to be rehabilitated will be subject to an economic evaluation
showing an ERR of at least 12%, which is the approximate opportunity cost
of capital in Guinea Bissau, to ensure the selection of high-priority
roads. However, the envisaged sections had a much higher ERR. The
Government agreed to these conditions during negotiations.
3.04     Rehabilitation was executed by force account in the first proj-
ect because, at the time (1978), there was very little chance of attract-
ing foreign contractors to the country for such work and there was no
local contractor capable of executing the job. There is still no local
contractor to whom rehabilitation or periodic maintenance could be con-
tracted under the proposed project. However, new equipment for the ex-
isting brigades is being kept to an absolute minimum to avoid building up
a permanent fleet too large for routine maintenance needs, that would
have to be used for rehabilitation or periodic maintenance, once the bulk
of the rehabilitation backlog has been completed, by the end of the proj-
ect. Therefore, the project will create a market in the country for fu-
ture local contractors, and a financial organization which will permit
them to enter this market in the longer run (para. 2.20).
Paved Roads
3.05     Existing bituminous surfacings consist of double surface treat-
ments made with a laterite nodule aggregate. Although of low crushing
strength, these nodules perform well and the alternative, crushed basalt,
would require heavy investment in establishing a quarry, at a much higher
cost. The 200 km of road to be rehabilitated vary in present condition
from poor, with extensive patching and sections breaking up, to fair.
The work to be done in all cases consists of a single or double surface
dressing with cutback bitumen and laterite nodules or sand (for only
mildly distressed roads). The average cost for a single surface dressing
is US$19,000 per km. The nodules will be produced from two screening



- 17 -
plants set up during the first project; where necessary, short lengths of
base reconstruction and making up of shoulders will be included. There
is also some bridgework, mostly re-decking of timber bridges, for which
MOPCU has the necessary skilled men. The bitumen brigade, if properly
supported with equipment and materials, can average one kilometer of 6m
road per day. Small improvements to the equipment of the brigade are
proposed (Annexes 3-3 and 3-4). Some personnel and equipment will be
detached to form routine maintenance brigades.
Laterite Roads
3.06     The 144 km of laterite roads to be rehabilitated were built to
engineered standards but have since suffered from extensive neglect.
Since 1970-73, most have received almost no maintenance. Depending on
the climate, terrain and natural materials, some lengths need to be re-
claimed from the bush and almost totally rebuilt whereas others require
re-establishment of the formation and regravelling. Culverts will be
installed or repaired as necessary; no large structures are needed. Con-
struction standards are shown in Annex 3-2, and the average cost per
kilometer is estimated at US$15,000.
Earth Roads
3.07     Design standards (Annex 3-2) for this class of road will be low,
in keeping with the light traffic expected. A formation will be raised
and compacted, but there will be no earthworks as such, except for valley
crossings, and no systematic gravelling. Over about 25% of sections in
the south of the country, paving with imported material will be needed
but in most places compacted natural soils will suffice. The expected
cost per km is US$5,000.
Equipment
3.08     The equipment needed by the periodic and routine brigades is
shown in Annex 3-3 and is already largely available. Some additional
equipment beyond that available from the first project is being found by
rehabilitation of items of the existing MOPCU fleet with the assistance
of a mechanical engineer consultant financed under the first project.
The project is already financing spare parts for the rehabilitation of
the worthwhile items under a PPF advance. The MOPCU headquarters, work-
shops, warehouses and parking lots contain large quantities of machinery
and vehicles which will never run again, but which clutter up the working
spaces to the detriment of what still works. Government confirmed during
negotiations its intention to sell or otherwise dispose of this scrap by
December 1984. New equipment to be purchased is shown in Annex 3-4.
Routine Maintenance
3.09     Under the project, depots will be established at Gabu and Farim
consisting of workshops, stores, offices and some housing, similar to the
depots already established at Buba and Bissau. At each of these depots,
a Routine Maintenance Brigade will be established. The depots will be



- 18 -
the headquarters of the Regional Services (SR) from which work teams will
operate. Equipment and vehicles for the maintenance teams, together with
office equipment, furniture, an initial stock of spare parts for the de-
pot, etc. will be provided under the project. Staff will be chosen from
among the existing employees of DEP and the first project's Rehabilita-
tion Brigades. Technical assistance, particularly on the administrative
side, will be provided (para. 3.17). By the end of the proposed project
(1987) all roads rehabilitated up to that date should be receiving
routine maintenance.
3.10     Paved road routine maintenance will be run from Bissau but
patching gangs of the Routine Maintenance Brigades will be stationed at
the SRs when necessary. The patching load will be quite heavy in the
first year particularly in Bissau, and the Rehabilitation Brigade will
help with this task. Thereafter, the work load should drop sharply, and
be manageable by the teams equipped with a 1,500 liter towed motorized
bitumen sprayer and two hand operated emulsion sprayers. The services of
the bitumen trainer will be available for training the new teams and
"refreshing" the knowledge of the existing bitumen brigade.
Training
3.11     Training in the first project concentrated on the mechanical
side. Under the proposed project, there will be a concentration on civil
engineering, management, administration, and cost accounting. The major
effort will be "on the job," in the process of setting up the SRs and the
routine maintenance organization in DEP. Training will essentially give
the worker what he needs to know to do his new job. In addition, courses
will be arranged during the rainy season for team and brigade chiefs and
their opposite numbers in the workshops and stores (Annex 2-3). The
existing training center (two rooms totalling 42m2 with furniture for 24
students plus some teaching aids) will be adequate for the purpose, but
some improvements are envisaged. The administrative specialist (para
3.17) will divide his time between setting up the SRs, training the
various staff needed and running ad hoc courses in the center. Courses
during the rainy season will also be given by other members of the T.A.
team and their counterparts.
3.12     Two additional elements complete the training component in DEP:
six months refresher visits by a bitumen specialist and six months by a
driver/operator instructor; and short courses in Portugal for the chiefs
of the existing brigades and workshops. The bitumen sprayer crew has
achieved a good level of performance and teamwork during the first proj-
ect, based on an initial six months' training. Before starting the next
project, it is appropriate to give a refresher course to tighten up on
quality control, and introduce new materials and techniques. The courses
for the brigade and workshop chiefs are being arranged through the Minis-
try of Public Works in Lisbon. The project will finance travel, attend-
ance and subsistence, and the Government agreed during negotiations to
submit details of courses and CVs of candidates to IDA for approval prior
to their commencement and to commit students to remain with the Govern-
ment for a minimum of three years on completion of their courses.



- 19 -
Ferry Operations
3.13     The project will provide technical assistance and training for
the administrative and financial side of the operation of the four river
ferries (paras. 2.17 and 2.18). On the technical side, the project will
provide a mobile workshop, and an initial supply of spare parts, paint
and other materials. Three of these ferries were supplied under FED
financing and some US$200,000 equivalent is available for overhauls.
These FED funds will be committed before IDA's funds.
3.14     At present, there is no reserve ferry capacity.  As it would be
at least three years before the recommendations of the study could be
implemented, the project will also finance supply of a small reserve
ferry to carry six passenger cars, to be purchased by ICB. Minor repairs
to landing ramps will be executed by direct labor.
Technical Assistance to DTT/MTT
3.15     The DTT (para. 2.09) lacks the physical means and know-how to
implement its road safety and axle load control plans. The project will
help DTT by providing (a) assistance for road signing and marking, spare
parts and paint for the line marking machine, (b) two Tapley decelero-
meters for testing of vehicle brakes, (c) office equipment for record
keeping, and (d) a vehicle for general field studies. The Government
showed at negotiations that it has made available a sufficient budget to
support these activities at least during FY1984, and it will submit by
November 30 of each year a detailed work program for DTT acceptable to
IDA. It will also present by December 31 of each year DTT's budget for
project execution under a separate budget line for an amount satisfactory
to the Association. DTT is also responsible for axle load control, using
equipment supplied under the first project. Unfortunately, when the
equipment was delivered, the vehicles for their transporation were no
longer available. This is being remedied under the proposed project.
The Government agreed during negotiations to enforce by January 1st, 1985
its axle load regulations with a maximum authorized load of 10 tons per
axle, as decided by the Government in 1980, and to make the necessary
controls to ensure effectiveness.
Technical Assistance to MOPCU
3.16     MOPCU is presently undergoing a comprehensive reorganization, of
the Road Maintenance, Urban Planning and Development, and Civil Works
Supervision directorates. The Government has requested the Association
to extend its technical assistance beyond the road maintenance sector to
MOPCU's general organization and all directorates which are being jointly
reorganized. Since one of the targets of the project is to transform the
existing enclave-type organization of the road maintenance unit into a
normal directorate in MOPCU, and the success of this transformation
depends on the effectiveness of MOPCU's general management, the Govern-
ment request has been accepted. Technical assistance comprises:



- 20 -
(a)   Technical assistance for reorganization of MOPCU's finan-
cial and accounting system (including budgeting and cost
accounting for road maintenance), and administrative pro-
cedures:
Technical Assistance for Public Management
(in man-months)
Expert in Public Management            20
Experts in Public Accounting and
Cost Accounting                      40
Total                    60
(b)   Technical assistance for urban development for:
(i) undertaking urban development studies in Guinea
Bissau's major urban centers, (ii) updating and comple-
menting construction and land use regulations, (iii) esta-
blishing the framework for the implementation of an urban
cadastral system including basic topographical surveys and
preliminary land valuation exercises, and (iv) extending
appropriate training to MOPCU staff:
Technical Assistance for Urban Planning
(in man-months)
Expert in urban cadastral system       20
Expert in urban planning               20
Total                   40
This component will be supervised by the Association's
Urban Division.
(c)   Technical Assistance for strengthening of MOPCU's labora-
tory for road maintenance and construction and civil works
directorate:
Technical Assistance for MOPCU's
Laboratory and Civil Works Directorate
(in man-months)
Expert Geotechnician                   20
Expert in Construction
standards                            15
Legal Expert                           10
Total                         45
(d)   Technical assistance for road maintenance:



- 21 -
In spite of the good performance of local staff at brigade
chief level, during the current project, assistance is
still needed for administration, accounting and procure-
ment. Short-term assistance is also required for training
(para 3.11). A team of six has been agreed upon with the
Government and project estimates are based on 105 man-
months spread over three years as follows:
Technical Assistance for Road Maintenance
(in man-months)
Adviser to Project Director
(Civil Engineer)                 23
Project Administrator
(organization specialist)                  33
Chief Mechanic/Equipment Inspector           33
Bitumen Instructor                            6
Driver/Operator Instructor                    6
Storekeeping Specialist                       4
Total                           105
These periods may be varied as experience dictates. The Government
agreed during negotiations to employ such a team by September 30, 1984,
selected in accordance with IDA guidelines and under terms of reference
acceptable to IDA and to discuss any changes to these periods with IDA
before action.
3.17     Outline terms of reference for technical assistance for road
maintenance are given in Annex 3-5. It will be noted that the civil
engineer member of the team is described as "adviser to the project di-
rector". The Guinean director of the present project has proved to be an
energetic and able manager, and it is intended that he shall remain as
director of the proposed project, assisted by an expatriate adviser who
will spend much of his time in the field or on-the-job training. In
addition to project management, the organization specialist will be
responsible for establishing a functioning administration in each of the
regional depots (SRs), and training staff from the current project and
DEP to fill the posts in the SRs.
3.18     The project will also finance a longer term study of nationwide
ferry needs, both river and maritime, and will recommend the best form of
organization for meeting these needs, and report on what additional faci-
lities - civil, marine or mechanical - are necessary. Terms of reference
for this study will be prepared by MTT following a decision on the struc-
ture of the National Transport Company (para. 2.19).



- 22 -
C. Project Implementation
3.19     Responsibility for project execution will be entrusted to an in-
terministerial commission, comprising MEF, MOPCU, MTT and the Ministry of
Justice. This was agreed during negotiations. Technical, accounting,
financial, and administrative control will be the responsibility of the
Directorate General of Technical Affairs (DGAT) which is part of MOPCU,
but MTT will be responsible for the implementation of the component deal-
ing with assistance to DTT. Within MOPCU, technical control of roadworks
will initially remain with DGAT, which has been responsible for implemen-
tation of the first project. However, responsibility will pass increas-
ingly to DGC, with DGAT maintaining financial control only. MOPCU has
agreed in principle to turn over salary administration for all project
staff to MOPCU's personnel payroll department, which will be strengthened
by transfer of staff from the present project management.
D. Cost Estimates
3.20     The total cost of the project net of taxes, including contingen-
cies is estimated at US$13.8 million, of which 85% are foreign cost. An
outline of project costs is given below. A detailed cost table appears
as Annex 3-6.
Summary Project cost
(Us$'000)
Local        Foreign       Total
Road Rehabilitation             1,310           5,240       6,550
Routine Maintenance               198           2,190       2,388
Training                            9             200         209
Ferries                            12             364         376
Assistance to DTT                   3              61          64
Assistance to MOPCU                59           1,395       1,454
Total Base Cost            1,591           9,450     11,041
Physical Contingencies       147             956      1,103
Price Contingencies          228           1,463      1,691
Total Project Cost         1,966          11_869     13,835
Rounded                    2,000          11,800     13,800
Cost estimates are based on the experience of the first project or from
the cost of similar recent purchases in the vicinity. The consultants
man-month rate is expected to be about US$10,600, with a further US$1,900
for local subsistence and travel costs. Physical contingencies have been
included at a rate of 10%. Price contingencies are calculated on the
following annual rates: 1984 : 8%; 1985 : 7%; 1986 et seq. : 6%. Actual
contingencies are shown in the detailed cost table (Annex 3-6) and over-
all account for US$2.8 million or 20% of the total cost.



- 23 -
E. Financing Plan
3.21     The financing plan is shown in the following table:
Financing Plan
(Uss 'oo0)
Local    %         Foreign       %       Total        _
Special Fund
Admin. by IDA    1,222                 2,778                4,000       (29)
IDA                    28                3,972                4,000       (29)
Kuwait Fund            50                5,050                5,100       (37)
Government            700                    --                 700        (5)
2,000   (15)        11,800    (85)      13,800      (100)
The project will be jointly financed by the Special Fund administered by
IDA, IDA, the Kuwait Fund and the Government. The proposed IDA and
Special Fund Credits would finance 58% of the net of tax cost of th
project, the Kuwait Fund 37%, and the Government the remaining 5% -t
plus taxes which are levied only on fuel and local salaries. Of the
proposed US$8.0 million contribution of the Association, US$4.0 million
would be Special Fund administered by IDA, and US$4.0 million, IDA. The
Government confirmed during negotiations that the project will be
exempted of taxes and duties.
F. Procurement
3.22     The project will be financed in parallel with the Kuwait Fund.
Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
1/ In addition to its existing current expenditure on routine
maintenance under all heads.



- 24 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement a/
(US$ mi iiions)
Kuwait
World Bank Group procedurs                  Fund         Tbtal
Items                   ICB       ICB       Other         N.A.    predure   Project COot
(1) Civil Works                              0.2                                              0.2
(0.1 /0.1)
(2) Equipment and Spares          2.0        0.1        0.2.b/                 2.9            5.2
(0.7/1.3)   (0/0.1)  (0.1/0.1)
(3) Yaterials                                0.2        0.l b /                1.1            1.4
(0/0.2)    (0.1/0)
(4) Fuels and lubricants                                0.3 c/                 1.0            1.3
(0.2/0)
(5) Wbges                                                            1.6                      1.6
(0/1.2)
(6)  Ebrry with spares           0.3                                                          0.3
(0/0.3)
(7) Technical Assistance                                3.6 dJ                 0.2            3.8
(2.8/0.7)
Total                 2.3        0.5        4.2          1.6       5.2           13.8
of which IA             0.7        0.1         3.2           0                       4.0
of which Special Furd    1.6       0.4         0.8          1.2                      4.0
*7 Amounts include contingencies; amnts in parentheses show part finEnced by IrA (first figure)
and by the Special Fund (second figure).
b/ Part of which will be financed through special accounts in Dakar and Lisbon.
Frm sole source national supplier DIOOL.
_/ By consultation via agreed short list.
For items of categories number 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 and 7 to be financed by the
Special Fund (SF) administered by IDA (US$4.4 million), procurement would
be limited to goods produced in, or services from, countries eligible for
procurement under the rules of the Special Fund Credit. Items financed
in parallel by the Kuwait Fund will be procured according to this insti-
tution's procurement guidelines.
3.23      Bidding documents for all major purchases are being prepared and
bidding has started. All purchases and contracts above $50,000 will be
subject to prior review. Equipment contracts have been prepared on the
basis of a price for the basic equipment, for spares and consumables to



- 25 -
be delivered with it, and for spares to be purchased as and when required
from a priced list which will form part of the contract and which will be
secured by a letter of credit. Other spare parts and items not covered
by contracts will be procured through local or international shopping,
using normal IDA procedures, partly using the revolving funds established
in Dakar and Lisbon (para. 3.25).
G. Disbursement
3.24     A disbursement schedule for Special Fund administered by IDA and
IDA's contributions is shown in Annex 3-7, based on the West Africa "IDA
Highways" Profile. The project is expected to be substantially disbursed
by March 1990 and the envisaged closing date for both credits is June 30,
1990. The Special Fund and IDk credits would be disbursed on the
following basis:



- 26 -
Allocation and DLsburseet of Ill and Special Flmd Credits
DA__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _            Special    Eud
Fbreign      iLcal                         breign       Local
Categories                Allocation  E ipenditues  Expeitxres      Allocation    penxlittres   xprditbares
(it7ax)5       %            % __         (Taxx)          %            %
(1 ) Equipnmt for road construc-  258        100          50
tion and wrkshop, vehicles
and smire psrts
(2) Road maintemnce equipimet,                                           1,485        100            50
eqgipnt for DIT, rebEbilita-
tion of eqtiipmt by contzact
(3) Road construction nrterials   12         103          50
(4) Fuels and lubricants         127          85 of total
(5) bges                                                                   909          0            74
(6) rryboat, engin and snire      48         100          50              243         100           50
parts
(7) Tecbnical assistance for road    597     100          50               566        100            50
maintenanc, auditing, study
of ferry needs
(8) Technical assistance to KIPU   1,394     100          0
for urben developmeat and re-
orgniation
(9) Refinding of PPF             650
(10) Initial paymnt into revolv-  100
ing fmd
(11) Unallocated                  814                                      794
Total             4,0X)                                    4,1Mx
Disbursement requests will be fully documented for categories (1) except
for spare parts to be procured through the Revolving Fund, (2),(3), (4)
except for special lubricants to be procured through the Revolving Fund,
(6), (7) and (8). For category (5), spare parts in (1) procured through
the Revolving Funds and special lubricants in (4) procured through the
Revolving Funds, disbursements would be against statements of expendi-
ture; detailed documentation will be retained by the Borrower and
available for inspection by the Association. In addition, all project



- 27 -
accounts will be audited annually (para. 3.27). As a special condition,
IDA reserves the right to suspend disbursements if the Kuwait Fund loan
is not effective by October 1, 1985, or any other date that the
Association may agree, and if the Government has not received from an
alternative source adequate financing to fill the financial gap.
3.25     Disbursement requests have been prepared in the recent past by
the project administrator for countersignature by DGAT and the Ministry
of Economy and Finance (MEF). This system was introduced to replace one
whereby withdrawal applications were prepared by MEF, which was too slow.
Applications still have to be signed by the Minister of Economy and
Finance. This has occasionally caused delays and during negotiations,
Government agreed to designate other signatories to sign in the Minis-
ter's absence. The previous project experienced difficulties in making
the numerous small purchases that are an unavoidable part of the running
of a force account project for two reasons: (a) the very limited range of
goods, materials and spare parts, etc. available in Bissau; and (b) the
difficulty and slowness of making these purchases in neigboring
Senegal. To resolve these difficulties, it is proposed to open accounts
in correspondent banks of BNG in Dakar and Lisbon. IDA would deposit
US$50,000 equivalent in each account, which would be disbursed through a
chequebook, cheques being signed jointly by MOPCU and MEF. Reimbursement
would be made through IDA's Procedure 1. The Government agreed during
negotiations to these arrangements.
3.26     MEF will establish a revolving fund in the form of an account at
BNG in local currency, through which its own contribution to the project,
chiefly wages, will be handled, as in the past. This account is operated
via a checkbook, with checks signed within MOPCU, and is reimbursed by
the MEF out of FNI on presentation of justification. Items purchased in
local currency but financed by either donor will, as in the past, be re-
imbursed to FNI under Procedure 1. Government agreed to open this ac-
count. Replenishment of the revolving fund will be subject to full docu-
mentation on earlier disbursements. During negotiations Government
agreed as a condition of effectiveness to show that it has made provision
in its budget 1/ for FY1984 of GP 20 million (approx. US$250,000), being
its estimated contribution to the first year of the Project.
H. Reporting and Auditing
3.27     MOPCU and the technical assistance team will prepare within four
months of the signing of the team's contract, an inception report giving
the detailed planning and programming proposed for the project. This
report, after being approved by the Government and IDA, will be used as
the project plan. One chapter of this report will show the proposed
routine maintenance organization, its operating procedures and its work
program. Thereafter, the consultant will prepare quarterly reports, and
1/ In FNI and recurrent budgets. This amount is already inscribed, but
not yet voted.



- 28 -
MOPCU will prepare and forward to the Association for information, a
quarterly report on all the activities of the project, giving details of
physical progress and financial and cost accounting details of each com-
ponent. It will also prepare quarterly reports on the proceeds of the
Road Fund, and on DICOL's sales of gasoline and diesel fuel. A draft
final report will be prepared by the consultant at the beginning of the
third year of the project, to be used by the Government for the prepara-
tion of a draft Project Completion Report, to be forwarded to the Associ-
ation. Government agreed at negotiations to prepare and forward these
reports to IDA in a timely manner.  It also agreed to have all project
accounts and associated bank accounts and revolving funds audited annu-
ally by independent auditors with whose choice IDA shall have agreed and
on terms of reference acceptable to the Association. The first audit
shall be made after at least twelve months of operations, at a time mutu-
ally agreable between the parties, but in any event not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1985.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01     The economic analysis comprises three components: (a) a road
rehabilitation component; (b) a routine maintenance component associated
with (a); and (c) a ferry improvement component. The benefits claimed
for the proposed works, which differ of course from road to road section
are based on the differences between executing the proposed works "now"
(with case) as opposed to "later" (without case).  Assumptions used in
the analysis are given in Annexes 4-1 to 4-5.  The global economic rate
of return (ERR) is estimated at over 37% (ERR's of each component are
given in Annexes 4-6, 4-7 and 4-8).
4.02     Road rehabilitation and maintenance works will contribute to a
reduction in vehicle operating costs and avoid higher Government expendi-
ture which would result, were the proposed repairs to be delayed and
carried out later. Benefits will accrue directly to vehicle owners and
to the economy as a whole through reduced maintenance expenditure, all
largely in foreign exchange, lower fuel consumption, fewer break downs,
increased vehicle life, etc., due to better driving conditions which will
result from improved road condition. The routine maintenance component
will contribute to reduce vehicle operating cost for the same reasons as
above, and generate savings for the Government through permitting it to
postpone more costly periodic maintenance works. The ferry component
will generate benefits through enabling the number of detours caused by
ferry breakdowns to be reduced. Consumers will also benefit from reduced
transport costs of basic goods, and all-weather access in some areas.
Because of lack of adquate supporting statistics, this latter benefit
could not be quantified. The proposed program will constitute the major
part of the MOPCU investment program of the 1983-86 Four-Year Plan.



- 29 -
B. Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
4.03     This component accounts for about 70% of the total project cost,
consisting of the resurfacing and local strengthening of 205 km of paved
roads, the rehabilitation of 144 km of engineered gravel roads and the
rehabilitation of about 148 km of ordinary earth roads. The selection of
roads included in the project was made in two phases; a list of 35 roads
totalling 1,010 km, for which rehabilitation was judged necessary, was
screened by the agencies involved (para. 3.03). Final selection was made
on the basis of economic criteria.
Benefits from Reduction of Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC)
4.04     Basic vehicle operating costs (Annex 4-1) have been calculated
from Guinea-Bissau data; the variations due to different road surface
conditions have been estimated by the consultants, based on their exten-
sive experience in Senegal. Road traffic projections by road section and
by type of vehicle are given in Annexes 4-3 through 4-5. Over the 1983-
1989 period, the annual traffic has been assumed to increase by an aver-
age 4.5% corresponding to a GNP elasticity of transport demand of about
2, which is normal by regional standards, and to an annual GNP growth of
2.25%. The vehicle operating cost benefit will result from the progres-
sive improvement of the road surface on the sections included in the
project. It was assumed that road traffic volume would not be affected
by the condition of the road, because over most sections there is no
alternative route, and therefore, no traffic diversion. Some traffic
generation may be possible but was not quantified. The resulting bene-
fits are given in Annex 4-6.
Benefits from Periodic Maintenance and Rehabilitation Reduction
4.05     The timely execution of rehabilitation and maintenance works
would reduce rehabilitation costs by about US$1.2 million over the 1984-
1997 period, and modify the timing of execution of the works. It would
also reduce routine maintenance cost by US$0.7 million over the same
period, due to cheaper routine maintenance works (Annex 4-6).
Costs of the Component
4.06     Rehabilitation costs are based on the cost experience of the
first project, a review of the terrain and materia s through which the
proposed roads run, and the consultant's report. I!
4.07     Investment costs considered in the analysis are net of taxes,
but include physical contingencies, construction supervision and tech-
nical assistance. They also include expenditures for recurrent routine
maintenance in both the "with" and "without" project cases. The aggre-
gated streams of costs and benefits are presented in Annex 4-6. For the
economic evaluation, it has been assumed that the average life of roads
1/ Consultant's report, Project File Ref. 2.



- 30 -
is about 20 years for paved roads, 15 years for engineered gravel roads,
and 13 years for earth roads.  The time interval between periodic mainte-
nance works has been taken as 7 to 8 years for paved roads, and 5 years
for laterite roads.  These figures have been adopted as the maximum
period of postponement of periodic maintenance works in the "without"
project case. In considering specific roads, the time interval has been
varied to take into account its strength, surface condition, traffic
composition, etc.
Sensitivity
4.08     Switching values were calculated to determine by how much costs
could increase or benefits decrease to still maintain a 12% rate of
return. The sensitivity analysis made on individual roads indicates that
the rehabilitation of paved roads with lower traffic such as Buba-Quebo,
Bula-Binar and Bula-Sao Vicente are critically sensitive to changes in
rehabilitation costs. However, the rehabilitation cost for these three
roads represents less than 10% of the total cost of the rehabilitation
program.
4.09     The economic rates of return and switching values for the three
categories of roads are estimated as follows:
ERRs for the Three Road Categories
Traffic, 1983                   Economic      Switching Values
Growth     Cost    Rate of Return   Costs Benefits
km   v.p.d.  (% p.a.)  (US$'000)          %)           (%      ()
Paved roads    205        140      4        4,185          32            20      22
Gravel roads   147        50       4.5      2,392          26            15      31
Earth roads    148        17       5          910          31            40      32
All roads       500        76      4.5      7,487          29            21      26
C. Routine Maintenance
4.10     The routine maintenance progam covers the roads rehabilitated
under the first project and will progressively take over those rehabili-
tated under the proposed project. The analysis covers a six-year period,
its start ng point is the road condition revealed by the consultant's
report. 1   Economic benefits from the routine maintenance program con-
sist of (a) savings in vehicle operating costs due to avoidance of degra-
dation of roads (US$.135 million over the 1984-1991 period,Annex 4-7) and
(b) significant savings resulting from the postponement of periodic
1/ Project File ref. 2.



- 31 -
maintenance works and/or reduction of these periodic maintenance costs
for a total amount of US$.845 million over the 1984-1991 period. The
economic rate of return of the proposed routine maintenance program would
be about 130%, a high but normal rate of return for works of this nature.
D.  Ferries Component
4.11     The procurement of a reserve ferry will allow MOPCU to undertake
regular periodic maintenance of the whole national ferry fleet (five
units) at the main shipyard of Bissau. The creation of a mobile mainte-
nance unit and procurement of spare parts will improve the quality of
routine maintenance and so reduce risks of equipment break-downs. These
improvements are expected to reduce the suspension of service at three
major ferries (Joao Landim, Farim and Sgo Vicente) by at least one month
per year each. This will reduce the unnecessary kiloeters driven during
the closure period by about 23% for long distance trips and 97% for local
trips. In addition, since detour routes involve the use of roads in
worse condition, the average vehicle operating cost per km will be re-
duced by about 5% for long distance journeys and 18% for local traffic.
For a reduction in the closure period of each ferry by about one month
per year, the economic rate of return of the proposed investment is 48%
(Annex 4-8). The sensitivity analysis indicates that even if the bene-
fits are reduced by 50% (reduction of the closure period by only two
weeks per year), the economic return of the ferries component will still
be 31%, which is satisfactory. In addition, technical assistance to the
Ferry Management Unit will contribute to a reduction of ferry operating
costs and an improvement in the recovery of ferry user charges.
E. Maintenance Expenditures Recovery
4.12     Forecasts of the Government's expenditures for road maintenance
and its revenue from fuel taxes, expected to remain virtually the sole
source of road user cost recovery for a number of years, are shown in
Annex 4-9. Road maintenance expenditures include routine maintenance
expenditures, normal periodic maintenance expenditures and backlog on
periodic maintenance expenditures to be caught up over the FY1985-87
period (Annex 2-2, Table 2). Periodic maintenance expenditures could be
considered as capital expenses, but being recurrent annually, they have
to be covered from the budget for recurrent expenditures.
4.13     In FY195, periodic maintenance expenditures included 60% backlog
on past maintenance. This share will decline gradually down to 40% in
FY1987, with the backlog decreasing in absolute value, and normal peri-
odic maintenance increasing with the number of kilometers maintained.
Backlog of past maintenance will be eliminated by FY1988. Total recur-
rent expenditures will increase from US$2.2 million in 1985 to US$2.8
million in 1987. After 1987, they will reach their normal level corre-
sponding to an adequate maintenance standard, and increase more slowly up
to US$3.3 million in 1991, largely due to inflation. User charges will
remain significantly below expenditures until 1987. The Action Plan



- 32 -
(Annex 2-2) will be gradually implemented during this period (see graphs
below).
GUINEA BISSAU - Road Maintenance Costs, Fuel Tax Yield and
Financial Equilibrium
4000  GP 1000                     GP 1000                  GP 1000
b/
3000                    /'N
RTaint.
2000   oa&'                                                   b :         Cost
Data fron Annex 4-9 and Annex 2-3 Table 2
With the new taxation level of GP 26 per litre on gasoline and GP 15 per
litre on diesel fuel (para 1.11), tax proceeds will increase gradually,
thanks to improved tax recovery, from US$0.6 million to US$1 .9 million.
The financial shortfall in the years until 1987 will be offset by
disbursements from the proposed project. From 1988 onward, cost recovery
through taxes, increasing with petroleum products consumption (4.5% per
annum) and with petroleum products prices (6% per annum), will suffice to
cover adequate maintenance and expenditure and the small debt service.
There will be a small surplus of revenues over expenditures, this
assuming that the Action Plan is successfully implemented.
F. Distribution of Project Benefits
4.14 The distribution of Project benefits, based on very tentative
estimates because of the poor statistical coverage in Guinea-Bissau, are
shown in the Chart in Annex 4-10. M4ost of the benefits of the project
will be vehicle operating costs savings (VOC), accruing to transporters.
About 40% of all vehicles are private and 60% belong to state enter-
prises. Hence, 40% of VOC savings would accrue to the private sector, of
which about 60% are expected to be passed on to consumers, and 40% be



- 33 -
retained as additional profit by vehicle owners. The other 60% of VOC
savings would accrue to state enterprises. Since most of them suffer
from serious financial difficulties, it is likely in the short term that
most of these savings will remain with the public firms with only a li-
mited amount, if any, being passed on to farmers and consumers, through
price reductions. However, under the new National Transport Company,
improved service and consequent production incentives can be expected.
4.15     Savings on Government expenditures for road maintenance and
rehabilitation will benefit taxpayers. Presently, most of Government
resources come from taxation on imports of consumer goods and other lev-
ies on consumption for an estimated 90%. Only about 10% are levied on
vehicle owners. Hence, the benefit on cost savings will accrue mainly to
consumers.
4.16     Savings on trip length induced by better ferry operation will
accrue primarily to retailers and local traders, through reduced trans-
portation costs. It is assumed that 60% of these benefits would be
transferred to consumers through price reduction, and 40% would be kept
by retailers and traders as additional profit.
4.17     Savings on induced traffic for the ferry component, although
limited, will accrue to local producers. Under the same assumption in
paragraph 4.16, 40% of these benefits would be transferred to retailers/
traders, part of which may finally reach consumers, and 60% would be kept
by producers.
4.18     Total benefits from the project in year 1991 for example, ex-
pressed in 1983 constant US$, will accrue mainly to public firms (US$670
thousand), to local consumers (US$546 thousand), and marginally, to pri-
vate vehicle owners (US$194 thousand), as well as retailers and traders
(US$101 thousand).
4.19     Furthermore, a liberalization of transport policy is envisaged,
leading to a competitive market for transport services and an extension
of the role of private transportation. This new policy is expected to
stimulate competition between transport operators, and thus ensure in the
longer run that more of the benefits of the project reach farmers and
consumers.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     At negotiations, the Government provided to IDA evidence of an
adequate FY1984 budget for DTT (para. 3.15), and confirmed its intention
to exempt all goods and services imported for the project from all taxes
and duties (para. 3.21).
5.02     During negotiations, the Government agreed:
(a)   to increase the tax on gasoline to GP 26 per litre and the
tax on diesel fuel to GP 15 per litre (para. 1.11);



- 34 -
(b)   to present to IDA for its comments by May 31, 1985, and
annually thereafter not later than July 31, MOPCU's road
investment and maintenance program and its annual budget
for the following fiscal year (para. 2.08);
(c)   to review annually by October 31 with IDA MOPCU's staffing
level sc as to reduce staff number to 400 by June 30, 1988
(para. 2.12);
(d)   to establish a Road Fund on conditions acceptable to IDA
by January 1, 1985 (para. 2.21);
(e)   to implement the agreed Action Plan (para. 2.22 and Annex
2-3);
(f)   to obtain IDA's approval for its road rehabilitation
program before starting work, with a minimum ERR of 12% on
any section of road proposed (para. 3.03);
(g)   to submit details of any proposed overseas study courses,
and CVs of students to IDA for approval prior to their
commencement and to commit students to remain with the
Government for a minimum of three years on completion of
their courses. (para. 3.12);
(h)   provide by November 30 of each year a work program for DTT
acceptable to IDA, present arnually by December 31 DTT's
budget for project execution under a separate budget line
and for an amount satisfactory to the Association, and
cause DTT to enforce legal axle load limits by January
1st, 1985 (para. 3.15);
(i)   to hire consultants under terms of reference and under
selection procedures acceptable to IDA by September 30,
1984 for road maintenance (para. 3.16);
(j)   create a interministerial commission for project implemen-
tation, comprising MEF, MOPCU, MTT and the Ministry of
Justice (para. 3.19);
(k)   to open in suitable correspondent commercial banks of BNG
in Lisbon and Dakar respectively, accounts for the manage-
ment of a cash advance to be furnished by IDA, and to
allow the operation of these accounts jointly by desig-
nated officials of MEF and MOPCU (para. 3.25);
(1)   to open in BNG in Bissau an account for management of
Government contribution to the project and to allow the
operation of this account by designated officials of MEF
and MOPCU (para. 3.26);



- 35 -
(m)   to prepare and forward to the Association quarterly
reports on project execution, proceeds of the Road Fund
and fuel sales by DICOL and to forward to the Association
a copy of consultants' reports (para. 3.27); and
(n)   to have all project accounts, bank accounts and revolving
funds audited annually on terms of reference and by quali-
fied auditors acceptable to the Association (para. 3.27).
5.03     As a special condition IDA will suspend disbursements if the
Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement has not become effective by October 1, 1985,
and the Government has not secured from an alternative source adequate
financing to fill the financial gap on conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para. 3.24).
5.04     As conditions of effectiveness, the Government must demonstrate
(a)   it has provided at least GP 20 million for its contribu-
tion to the first year of project (para 3.26); and
(b)   it has opened the bank account refered to in para 3.25 and
3.26.
Based on the above agreement, the project is suitable for an IDA credit
to the Government of Guinea-Bissau of SDR 3.9 million (US$4.00 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms, and a Special Fund Credit to the same
Government of SDR 3.9 million (US$4.00 million equivalent), on standard
Special Fund terms.
WAPT2
Apr. 1984






- 37 -
ANNEX 2-1
CUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS, CONSTRUCTION, & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (MOPCU)
PRESENT ORGANIZATION CHART
Bureau of Planning              Directorate General of                  Directorate General               Directorate General for
and Studies (GEP)             Ulrban Development (DGU)                of Conistruction (DGC)             Technical, Administrative
t          _e                    aFinancial Affairo  (DGAT)
De,Roads ard   e|    r                       AdmRnisttrationa
CivilEngnern  (DE         aoatr                 okhp            Br       (DEP               |  rjea nd Finance. 
| Reiona |    |Routine  |      roject Unit|
| Depots |  Maintenance          fr Ra
Brigades        Reabltation
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
(by December 31, 1985)
A t Mini Bter
E[    GD 7U                   -+ WLRoads   B  ridges (DPBM!A/|
I   _!   m     I               :    I                                    rS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Stud ie s and|
| Pojets      |an  Finance |
Genera-l         Reh6labilitation           e |Rgonal |          [ =;p                    Bidet
|Administ ration|         Brigades                e l   Deos|   '
Brigade 1              Farim            Store
Brigade 2              Buba              Workshop
Brigade 3              Gabu              Equipment
Bissau
a/ In the longer run, DPBM will become an autonomous Roads and Bridges Maintenance Authority, supervised by MOPCU.
WAPT 2
Mar. 1984






- 39 -
ANNEX 2- 2
Page 1 of 5
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
AN ACTION PLAN
FOR RAISING REVENUE FROM ROAD USERS
AND ASSURING ADEQUATE ROAD MAINTENANCE FUNDS
Purpose
1.       This action plan is to give recognition and practical effect to
two fundamental principles of transport policy, namely:
(a)   that road user charges should at least equal the cost of
road maintenance, and
(b)   that adequate funds for road maintenance should be made
available to the responsible authority in a timely manner.
This document sets forth a program for achieving the purpose behind these
principles, and a timetable of necessary actions. Certain of its
provisions are incorporated into the Credit Agreement; and the Government
has agreed in a side letter to implement the remaining provisions in
close co-operation with IDA.
Definitions
2.       Road User Charges comprise all duties, fees and taxes levied on
the road user or the motor vehicle operator which accrue to the revenue
of the state, and include taxes and duties on fuels and lubricants, on
the import or sale of vehicles, spare parts, tires, batteries, etc., fees
charged for vehicle or driver registration and traffic fines.
3.       Road Maintenance Costs may be divided into those for:
(a)   routine maintenance which comprises surface patching and
crack sealing, or grading and reprofiling in the case of
laterite roads, cleaning of side drains and culverts and
cutting of vegetation, and other operations conducted
throughout the year; and those for
(b)   periodic maintenance which consists essentially of renewal
of the running surface of the road--resurfacing with bitu-
men and stone, or for laterite roads, the replacement of
the wearing course, and is carried out at a frequency
typically of between five and ten years.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2- 2
Page 2 of 5
The Network to be maintained
4.       The national network consists of some 2300 L/ kilometers of
roads and tracks as follows:
Paved                    485 km
Engineered Gravel        412 km
Tracks                  1403 km
2300 km
At the present time, little of this network receives regular maintenance,
nor is much of it in a condition which allows regular maintenance. But
with the start of the Second Roads Project, roads which have already been
rehabilitated will begin to receive regular routine maintenance. Recog-
nizing the need for a gradual build-up of the extent of the network
receiving regular maintenance, in keeping with the growth of revenue from
the road user, and of capacity of the Ministry of Public Works, Construc-
tion and Housing to provide the service required, the following time
table is agreed:
Table 1
Maintained Network
Kilometers to be maintained by the end of Fiscal Year
By end of FY        Bitumen        Gravel        Earth        Total
1985              280            210          240          730
1986              350            260          290          900
1987              420            310          340         1070
1988              440            340          370         1150
1989              460            370          400         1230
1990              485            412          433        1330 b
(1990 total as
percentage of class)   (100%)          (100%)        (31%)       (58%)
a/  Earth roads with very low traffic outside this total may receive
summary regrading subject to equipment availability, or village
level labour-based maintenance.
b/  Makes no allowance for upgrading.
5.       These totals are based on the expected progress of the two IDA-
financed projects until the end of FY87 and a modest extension there-
after, so that by the end of the decade, the entire paved and engineered
gravel network and 30% of the earth roads network will be under regular
routine maintenance.
1/ A further 700 km of tracks exist but many largely on paper only, plus
95 km of paved towship roads. Network density in km/sq. km = .064,
cf Togo, Benin = 0.042, Sierra Leone =.1



- 41 -
ANNEX 2- 2
Page 3 of 5
Maintenance Funds Required
6.       Using typical costs from the first road project and from similar
countries in the West Africa region, the following amounts (expressed in
1983 prices) have been determined to be reasonable for the periodic and
routine maintenance of the network defined in table 1.
Table 2
Road Maintenance Funds Required
(in 1983 prices)
$000's
Fiscal                    Backlog on   Normal        Total
Year         Routine      Periodic    Periodic    Periodic           Total
(1)            (2)          (3)          (4)          (5)              (6)
1985            257        1,012          685         1,697 b/        1,954
1986            401          853          844         1,697 b/        2,098
1987            496          694        1,003         1,697 b/        2i193
1988            591            0        1,087         1,087           1,678
1989            635            0        1,154         1,154           1,789
1990            679            0        1,218         1,218           1,897
a/  Based on an exchange rate of GP 82 per US$1, 85% of maintenance
cost in foreign currency, and a 50% salary increase in FY1984.
b/  Met by IDA project.
Revenue
7.       Table 3 shows the approximate levels of fuel imports consumed by
road users, the taxes in force and the theoretical revenue yield of those
taxes were they to be uniformly and effectively enforced:
Table 3
Gasoline Consumption and Taxation
('000 tons)
FY              Premium      Regular       Diesel Fuel
1980               2.2          2.2              (5.0)a/
1981               1.8          1.8              (5.0)a/
1982               1.5          1.4              5.0
Average                1.8           1.8              5.0
Tax per litre (GP)   13.6           13.0              1.8
Tax Yield b/
(GP millions)       34.7         32.8              10.8
Total annual yield GP 78.3 million (US$0.95 million, at GP 82 per US$1)
Total yield if Diesel tax increased to GP 7.5 per 1 = GP112.5 million
= (US$1.4 million, at
GP 82 per US$1 rate)
a/ Estimated.
b/ Assuming 1,400 1. of gasoline and 1,200 1. of diesel per ton.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 4 of 5
8.       Making allowance for further revenue derived from vehicle import
duties, vehicle and driver registration, etc, there is insufficient
revenue-generating potential with existing tax rates and import levels at
the revised exchange rate to fund all road maintenance. In addition, the
majority of potential revenue does not at present reach the Treasury.
The Government, therefore, will increase the level of fuel tax to about
GP 26 per liter on gasoline and GP 15 per liter on diesel fuel, by Sep-
tember 30, 1984, in order to compensate for the effect of the exchange
rate variation, and reduce or abolish a sufficient number of the existing
tax exemptions or preferential prices now in force by January 1, 1985, to
produce from 1986 on at least 50% and from 1988 on at least 100% of the
amounts shown in Table 2, Column 6 (after allowing for inflation). How-
ever, necessary changes shall1 e subordinated to the recommendations of
the Road User Taxation Study - and the Petroleum Products Pricing
Study,    should they call for higher levels of taxation.
The Road Fund
9.       Revenues collected from road users, and in particular taxes on
the importation and sale of petroleum products shall be transferred
directly from the collecting agency, presently the Department of Customs,
to the Road Fund being established under the Project. They shall be used
by the Road Fund exclusively to finance routine and periodic maintenance
to adequate standards of the network described in Table 1 of this Action
Plan.
10.      The total revenue collected from road users may in certain years
exceed the funds required for road maintenance, i.e. the amounts shown in
Table 2 after adjustment for inflation. Also, funds for road maintenance
may be available from other sources, such as direct Government contribu-
tions to the proposed project, the proposed IDA Credit for this project,
and possibly funds provided by other donors for road maintenance. To the
extent, therefore, that total funding for road maintenance would exceed
reasonable levels as shown in Table 2, excess should be transferred to
the Treasury. Beginning in 1985, the Government shall agree annually
with the Association on the amounts of road user tax revenue to be trans-
ferred directly to the treasury.
11.      In order to assure an efficient utilization of funds channelled
through the Road Fund for road maintenance, the Government will:
(a)   Reorganize by December 31, 1985, the Road and Bridges
Directorate (DEP) in MOPCU to the effect that:
(i) the existing Project Unit for road rehabilitation
and maintenance, created under the First Roads
Project will be merged with the DEP and will be
1/ Being made as part of the IDA-financed Port Project and Petroleum
Technical Assistance Project respectively.
2/ Or such other sources as may be agreed.



- 43 -                        ANNEX 2-2
Page 5 of 5
reorganized into one administrative unit incorpo-
rating four regional depots, each including a
Routine Maintenance Brigade, and three Rehabilita-
tion brigades;
(ii) the authority of the Directorate General of Tech-
nical Affairs over non-financial aspects of road
maintenance will be gradually phased out by
December 31, 1985;
(iii) the staff of the new DEP, after the reorganization
will receive adequate training in Guinea-Bissau
and abroad, to be financed under the Second Roads
Project; and
(iv) Personnel administration for all staff involved in
road maintenance will be transferred to the
Personnel Department of MOPCU by December 31,
1985.
(b)   Establish and make effective by June 30, 1987, with the
assistance of the experts financed under the Second Roads
Project:
(i) a cost accounting system for calculating the cost
of the main categories of maintenance works per-
formed on each section of road; and
(ii) a budgeting system for road maintenance based on
unit cost of maintenance operation.
WAPT2
Apr. 84



- 44 -
ANNEX 2-3
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAM
SPECIALIST COURSES
Type of                                                Number of      Course Length
Course  a/                                             Students           Weeks
1. Bitumen Instructor
B        Brigade & Team Chiefs                          8                3
R        Bituminous Equipment Operators                 8                2
R        Resealing Team                              2x15                I
B        Routine Maintenance Crews                   2x12                1
70
2. Equipment Operator Instructor
R        Loader and Dozer Operators                  2x12                1
R        Grader Operators                               6                2
R        Vehicle & Truck Drivers                     2x12                1
B        Grader Operators                               6                3
B        Vehicle Drivers                               12                1
B        Equipment Operators                            6                2
78
a/  R=Refresher,  B=Basic; after four weeks for selection of candidate
and preparation of courses.
The formal courses will be combined with an equal amount of field work/on
the job training by trade and by work team. The first two weeks will be
timed to coincide with the last weeks of the working season and the experts'
observations during this period will be addressed in his courses.
GENERAL COURSES
1. Administrative, Workshop & Civil Engineering Staff
No.of       Course
Students   Length             Course Name
(weeks)
Brigade Chiefs & Section Heads       2x9          3      Works Planning & Management
Brigade & Regional Depots's
Clerical Staff       2x9          2      Record Keeping & Cost
Accounting
Workshop Foremen & Deputies             8         2      Preventive Maintenance
Record Keeping and C st
Accounting
Routine Maintenance Staff           2x20           1     Maintenance Techniques,
Materials and Equipment
WAPT2
Mar. 1984



- 45 -
ANNE, 3-1
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
ROAD REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Bitumen Roads - Class I              km
Bula - Canchungo                     10
Canchungo - Cacheu                   32
Bula - Sao Vicente                   20
Bula - Binar                         10
Mansoa - Bissora                     25
Bambadinca - Gaba                    88
Buba - Quebo                         10
Bissau streets                       10
Sub-Total                     205
Engineered Gravel Roads - Class II
Buba - Quebo                         22
Enxude - Tite                         7
Farim - Dungal                       20
Binar - Bissora                      24
Mampata - Cacine                     74
Sub-Total                     147
Earth Roads - Class III
Gabu - Che Che                       42
Bigine - Galomaro                    32
Bafata - Gamamudo                    15
Canchungo - Caio                     30
Nemataba - Paunca                    29
Sub-Total                     148
Total                               500km
WAPT2
Apr. 1984



- 46 -
ANNEX 3-2
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
DESIGN STANDARDS
Bitumen Roads
Surfacing:         Single Surface Dressing or Double Surface Dressing or
Sand Seal depending on existing surface condition,
using screened laterite aggregates or river sand and MC
3000 cut back bitumen, 6m wide.
Associated Works: Pre-sealing patching, bridge and culvert repairs,
ditch cleaning, making up and regrading shoulders where
necessary.
Engineered Gravel Roads
Earthworks:
Earthworks are to be limited to sections where the existing
vertical and/or horizontal alignment limit safe travelling speed below
60km/h.
Formation:
Width:                9m
Paved width:          6m
Pavement thickness: 15cm minimum
Minimum height of road crown above invert of side drain: 45cm -
Earth Roads
Earthworks:
Consistent with 40km/h safe travelling speed.
Formation:
Width: 8m
Pavement: only as and where soil conditions require.
Normal height of road crown above invert of side drain: 30cm
WAPT2
Mar. 1984



- 47 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
LIST OF EQUIPMENT
Bituminous Brigade - Periodic maintenance
1    Screening Plant 1
1    Screening Plant 2
1    Bitumen Distributor 5,000 1.
2    Chip Spreaders
5    Dump Trucks  5 cu. m
1    Front End Loader, Type FA FL10
2    Front End Loaders, Type FA 545
2    Service Passenger Cars
1    Fuel Tanker, 8,000 1. (shared with recurrent maintenance crews)
1    Lubrication Truck
I    Grader (for ditches and shoulders (part-time))
1    Bulldozer 105 HP (quarry)
1    Water Tanker 8,000 1. (part-time)
1    Roller Albaret PF 2
1    Roller VA 10 (for shoulders, part-time)
1    Bitumen Heater
3    Dump Trucks, 8 cu. m (transport quarry to stockpiles)
1    Flat Bed Truck SG2
1    Low Bed Truck (for all brigades)
Miscellaneous Equipment - Vibrators, pumps, etc
Bituminous Crew - Recurrent Maintenance
1    Towed Distributor 1,000 1.
2    Emulsion Distributors 200 1.
1    Dump Truck
1    Flat Bed Truck
1   Vibrating Roller, Pedestrian Controlled
Miscellaneous Equipment
Regravelling Brigade No. 1 (Buba)
1    Bulldozer 200 HP
1    Bulldozer 150 HP
1    Front End Loader 2,5 cu. m.
2    Graders 100 HP
2    Vibrating Rollers Drum/Pneumatic
7    Dump Trucks 8 cu. m
1    Water Tanker 8,000 1.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 2
1    Fuel Tanker 8,000 1.
2    Service Passenger Cars
1    Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle
Miscellaneous Equipment
Regravelling Brigade No. 2 (Gabu)
1    Bulldozer 200 HP
1    Bulldozer 150 HP
2    Front End Loaders 1,5 cu. m
2    Graders 100-150 HP
2    Vibrating Rollers
5    Dump Trucks 5T
2    Dump Trucks 8 cu. m
1    Workshop Truck 8 cu. m
1    Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle
2    Service Passenger Cars
i    Agricultural Tractor 65 HP
1    Fuel Tanker Trailer 2,500 1.
Miscellaneous Equipment
Equipment for Routine Maintenance Crews for Each Region
1    Grader 100 HP
i    Agricultural Tractor, 60-80 HP with Backhoe and Loader
2    Dump Trucks 5T
1    Flat Bed Truck SG2
2    Service Passenger Cars
1    Concrete Mixer 501
1    Lubrication Trailer
1    Roller
Miscellaneous Equipment
Equipment in Reserve
1    Grader
1    Front End Loader 1,5 cu. m
1    Bulldozer 140-150 HP
2    Dump Trucks 5T
WAPT2
Apr. 1984



- 49 -
ANNEX 3-4
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
EQUIPMENT TO BE PURCHASED
Number                    Item                          Approximate Cost al
$ 000
1        Bulldozer  300 HP                                    290
1        Bulldozer  200 HP                                    175
4        Graders    130 HP                                    300
3        Tyred loaders 1.5 m3                                 210
2        Vibrating rollers IOT                                140
2        Vibrating rollers (pedestrian)                        40
10        Tipper lorries 7 m3                                  410
2        Water tankers 8,0001                                  90
1        Fuel tanker 8,0001                                    45
1        Greasing lorry                                        45
2        Tipper lorries 2m3                                    46
1        Towed bitumen sprayer 1,0001                          16
2        Farm tractors  60 HP                                  34
7        Pickups                                               84
3        Landrovers                                            60
1        Mobile workshop                                       45
1        Excavator/loader/farm tractor  60HP                   40
2        Manual Emulsion Sprayers                               8
1        Low loader and tractor 40T                            60
Total                                    2,138
a/ CIF Bissau
Source: Reference No. 5.
WAPT2
Mar. 1984






- 51 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 4
GUINEE-BISSAU
DEUXIEME PROJET ROUTIER
MINISTERE DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS, CONSTRUCTION ET URBANISME
ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE POUR L'EXECUTION DU PROJET ROUTIER
TERMES DE REFERENCE
Introduction
1.       La2 Guin6e Bissau est un pays de superficie peu etendue
(36.125 km ) insere entre le Senegal et la Guinee-Conakry. La population
compte environ 800.000 habitants et la langue officielle est le portu-
gais. Le territoire du pays est decoupe par sept longs estuaires, dont
la traversee s'6ffectue a bord de bacs. A l'interieur, la topographie
est relativement plate et le climat varie du type savane, au nord, au
type foret tropicale humide, au sud.
2.       Le r6seau routier du pays est assez bien developpe et s'etend
sur 2240 km, dont 485 km sont rev^tus, mais il est mal entretenu. Le
service d'entretien vient d'etre cre6. L'Administration guineenne, grace
au financement de l'Association Internationale de Developpement est sur
le point d'aborder la phase finale de son Premier projet routier. Dans
le cadre de ce projet, le Ministere des travaux publics, de la construc-
tion et de l'urbanisme (MOPCU) a cree trois brigades de remise en etat du
reseau routier, dont une affectee aux routes revetues-et deux aux routes
en terre; le Ministere a egalement mis en place les structures physiques,
humaines et administratives necessaires. A la fin du premier projet,
soit vers decembre 1983, ces brigades auront remis en etat environ 475 km
de routes.
3.       Le deuxieme projet routier, dont l' assistance technique fait
l'objet du present appel d'offres, comportera les volets suivants :
(a)   Refection de 500 km des routes (200 km bitumees) en regie
par les brigades, pendant trois saisons seches.
(b)   Creation et financement des depenses de demarrage de l'ex-
ploitation de trois services regionaux pour l'entretien
courant du r'seau dans chaque region.
(c)   Creation et financement des d6penses de demarrage de l'ex-
ploitation d'un service d'exploitation des quatre princi-
paux bacs traversiers du pays.
(d)   Formation du personnel affecte aux activit6s (a) - (c) ci-
dessus.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 4
Tache du consultant
4.       Le consultant doit mettre a la disposition du MOPCU une equipe
de sept experts ayant la composition suivante pour aider le MTPCU a exe-
cuter le projet et passer les marches de fournitures necessaires
hommes-mois a!
Ing6nieur routier                             23
Administrateur/Specialiste
en organisation                            33
Inspecteur du materiel/
Chef mecanicien                            33
Instructeur conduite des engins                6
Formateur bitume                               6
Expert magasinier                              4
105
a/ A titre indicatif.
Qualifications et Attributions
Generalites
5.       II sera tenu compte pour l' attribution des services au Consul-
tant, de l'acceptation par le personnel des difficultes de vie propres a
la Guin'e Bissau.  Chaque membre de l'equipe doit avoir une connaissance
du portugais parle. Au moins un membrede l'equipe doit etre capable
d'etablir des documents et rediger des manuels ou des rapports en langue
portugaise. Tous les membres de l'equipe doivent avoir l'experience des
travaux publics dans un pays en developpement, et de preference en ce qui
concerne les travaux en regie.  Tous les membres de l'equipe, doivent
etre en mesure de jouer un role dans le volet formation, soit sur le tas,
soit dans le cadre des stages speciaux qui se derouleront pendant la
saison des pluies.
6.       L'Ingenieur routier sera un ing'enieur diplome du genie civil
ayant au moins sept ans d'experience des travaux routiers. E1 devra
egalement avoir travaille pour une administration des travaux publics et
avoir des connaissances en matibre de :
(a)   gestion des services d'entretien routier;
(b)   enduits superficiels;
(c)   construction et entretien des routes en terre.
II aura la responsabilite d'assister le Directeur du Projet dans ses
taches de controle de la bonne execution du projet, de suivi de la mise
en place de la nouvelle organisation pour l'entretien des routes, de
direction, ainsi que de gestion de la nouvelle organisation.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 3 of 4
7.       Administrateur/specialiste en organisation.  Il sera titulaire
d'un diplome reconnu en gestion et aura au moins sept ans d'experience
generale, acquise de preference dans une organisation de genie civil,
industrielle ou commerciale. I1 sera responsable, avec son homologue
guin&en, de la gestion administrative du projet, de la passation du mar-
che de fournitures pour le projet. L'expert sera responsable de :
(a)   la conception et mise en place du systeme de gestion des
services regionaux d'entretien routier, ainsi que de la
formation des agents dans ce domaine;
(b)   l' assistance a la creation d'un service d'exploitation des
quatres bacs traversiers.
(c)   I1 examinera aussi le fonctionnement du Fonds Routier qui
sera cree dans le cadre de ce projet et proposera les
amenagements eventuellement n'cessaires.
8.       L'Inspecteur du materiel/Chef mecanicien.  I1 sera titulaire
d'un diplome de niveau au moins equivalent a celui de technicien supe-
rieur. I1 sera responsable du bon fonctionnement du materiel des trois
brigades, y compris le mat6riel des 'quipes d'entretien courant, de l'en-
tretien et de la reparation du materiel, de la gestion des ateliers et
des magasins, et de l'achat des pieces d'tach'es.  I1 sera 'galement
responsable de la creation et la gestion d'une equipe d'entretien des
quatre bacs traversiers (dont trois seront des bacs motorises de 40 ton-
nes). I1 devra par ailleurs etre en mesure de participer au depouille-
ment des offres de fournitures de materiel de genie civil et de pieces de
rechange, a l'analyse des offres et a l'etablissement des commandes, a la
r'ception technique du materiel de genie civil et des pieces de rechange,
a l'affectation du materiel et a sa mise en route industrielle.
9.       L'Instructeur de conduite des engins aura une experience d' au
moins sept ans, dans 1'exploitation et a 1'entretien des engins et ca-
mions de travaux publics, et au moins un an d'experience en formation des
conducteurs et chauffeurs d'engins et camions. I1 sera charge, pendant
son sejour de six mois, de :
(a)   diagnostiquer les besoins en recyclage d'environ 50 con-
ducteurs et chauffeurs existants, de formuler et de donner
les cours de formation sur le tas necessaires;
(b)   inculquer une formation de base a environ 30 conducteurs
et chauffeurs sans formation prealable.
10.      L'Instructeur bitume aura au moins cinq ans d'experience en
matiere d'rexecution des enduits superficiels et d'entretien des routes
revetues en pays en d'veloppement. I1 sera charge, pendant son sejour de
six mois, de :



- 54 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 4 of 4
(a)   diagnostiquer les besoins en recyclage de la brigade bi-
tume existante, de formuler et de donner les cours n'eces-
saires de formation sur le tas, en introduisant des tech-
niques nouvelles appropriees; et
(b)   former deux equipes de point a temps.
L'Expert Magasinier
11.      Il aura au moins cinq ans d'experience generale en gestion des
magasins, control de stocks et tenue de fichiers (Kardex, KINIMAX, ABC)
etc. Durant son sejour de quatre mois il sera responsable de l'organi-
sation des inventaires, la tenue des magasins, le stockage des pieces
detachees et des materiaux d'atelier et de construction acquis par MOPCU
pendant le premier projet routier. Il sera egalement reponsable du recy-
clage des agents de MOPCU en charge de la future gestion des magasins et
stocks du deuxieme projet.
Autres taches
12.      Le consultant doit
(a)   preparer un schema directeur pour l'entretien courant et
periodique du reseau, jusqu'a l'annee 1990, et d6terminer
les ressources humaines, mecaniques et financieres a met-
tre en oeuvre pour sa realisation;
(b)   aider l'Administration dans la mise en place et le demar-
rage d'un Fonds routier pour le financement des activites
& entretien;
(c)   preparer 'ventuellement un troisieme projet routier pour
faire suite au deuxieme projet routier, et poursuivre le
developpement du reseau et des organismes charges de sa
gestion et de son entretien.
Rapports
13.      Quatre mois apres l'arrivee des premiers membres de l'equipe un
rapport initial sera presente a l'Administration guineenne. Ce rapport
servira de planning general pour la gestion du projet. Apres l'accep-
tation de ce rapport par l'Administration et apres avoir requ l'appro-
bation de l'Association, le consultant etablira un rapport d'activit's
tous les trois mois. Le consultant redigera un projet de rapport final
au debut de la troisieme annee du projet.
WAPT2
Apr. 1984



- 55 -
ANNEX 3-6
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS a/
Local      Foreign      Total      Foreign        Local      Fppin        Total      Foeig
1ooo      --------T------  (o  millions) -------
1.  Road Rehabilitation
Periodic Mtaintenance (500 km)
a.  Equipment, vehicles & spare parts,etc         27      2,700       2,727           99          2.21      221.40      223.61        98
b.  Fuel & lubricants                            109         665        774           86          8.94       54.53       63.40        86
c.  Road building materials, including             9        868          877          99          0.74       71.18       71.92        99
bitumen, culverts
d.  Salaries                                   1,125           -      1,125            0         92.25         -         92.25         0
e.  Technical Assistance (71 r/r)                 40        807         847           95          3.28       66.17       69.45        95
f.  Equipment rehabilitation by contract           -         200         200         100                     16.40       16.40       100
Sub-total         1,310       5,240       6,550                    107.42      429.68      537.10
Contingencies  Physical       10%           122         533         655                     10.74       42.97       53.70
Price   14.2%            190         833       1,023                     15.60       68.27       83.88
Total                  1,622       6,606      8,228                     133.76      540.92      674.68
2.  Routine Road Maintenance
a.  Buildings & furniture inc. housing             8          94         102          92          0.66        7.71        8.37        92
b.  Workshop & depot equipment                     1          44         45           98          0.08        3.61        3.69       98
c.  Road maintenance equipment and                11       1,078      1,089           99          0.90      88.39       89.29         99
vehicles & spare parts
d.  Fuel and lubricants, etc.                     38         220         258          86          3.11       18.04       21.15        86
e   Materials & supplies                          12        276         288           96          0.98      22.63       23.61         96
f.  Salaries                                     105           0         105           0          8.61         -          8.61         0
g.  Technical Assistance (42 r/r)                 23        478          501          95          1.88      39.19       41.07         95
Sub-total           198       2,190       2,388                     16.52      179.59      196.09
Contingencies  Physical       10%            17         222         239                      1.39       18.22       19.61
Price   14.2%             26         347         373                      2.17       28.45       30.62
Total                   241        2,759      3,000                     20.07      227.24      246.31
3.  Training
a.  Technical Assistance (12 rn/n)                 6         137         143          96          0.49       11.23       11.72        96
b.  Civil works                                    2          26          28          93          0.16        2.13        2.29        93
c.  Teaching materials                             1          14          15         93          0.08         1.15        1.23        93
d.  Scholarships for overseas study                -         23          23         100            -          1.89        1.89      100
Sub-total             9         200         209                      0.73       16.40       17.13
Contingencies  Physical   10%                 1          20          21                      0.07        1.64        1.71
Price   14.2%              1          31          32                      0.11        2.56        2.67
Total                     11        251         262                       0.91      20.60       21.51
4.  Ferries
a.  Supply of 20t river ferry boat                 2         147         149          98          0.16       12.05       12.21        98
b.  Spare parts for 4 ferry boats                  1          78         79           99          0.08        6.39        6.47        99
c.  Pick-up truck, tools, etc.                     1          16          17           4          0.08        1.31        1-39        94
d.  Civil works to landing ramps                   4         46           50         92          0.33         3.77        4.10       92
e.  Study of ferry system                          4          77          81          95          0.33        6.31        6.64        95
Sub-total            12         364         376                      0.98       29.83       30.81
Contingencies  Physical       10%             1          36          37                      0.09        2.98        3.07
Price    7.5%              2          30          32                      0.15        4.66        4.81
Total                     15         430         445                      1.22       37.47       38.69
5.  Assistance to DTT
a.  Vehicles                                       1          21          22          95          0.08        1.72        1.80        95
b.  Equipment for vehicle testins                  1          28         29           97          0.08        2.29        2.37        97
and signing
c.  Office equipment                               1          12          13          92          0.08        0.98        1.06        92
Sub-total             3          61          64                      0.24        5.00        5.24
Contingencies  Physical       10%             -           6           6                       -          0.49        0.49
Price    7.5%              -           5           5                                  0.41        0.41
Total                      3          72          75                      0.24        5.90        6.14
6. Assistance to MOPCU
Technical assistance                         59       1,395       1,454         96%          4.83      114.39      119.15       96%
Contingencies  Physical       10%             6         139         145                      0.49       11.40        1.19
Price      14.2%           9         217         226                      0.74       17.79       18.53
Total                     74       1,751       1,825                      6.07      143.58      149.65
Grand Total                  1,966      11,869      13,835                    162.27      975.71    1,137.98
(Rounded)                 2,000     11,800      13,800                     164.00      967.60   1,131.60
a/  Rate of Exchange: GP 82 - US$1.00
WAPT2
Xar. 1984



- 56 -
ANNEX 3-7
GUM2E-BISSAU
SBXFD RCakt PJ2T
ELt'lFATED SC}I1 OF DISRS3 a/
lIA's             Special Rrd                        IDA                        Total
isceal Year    Quarterly       Omnulative      Quarterly      Cunulative          Omalative          Percentage
and Calendar   Disbureement  Disburaetent   Disbursment   0isbursmnat             Disbursement          of total
Quarter loding         at Mad of Quarter              at Eht of Quarter          at dt of Quarter         Credit
FY85
September 1964          44              44             44              44                  81 t
December '964          104             148            104             148                296                 4
MarchI t95             170             252            170             252                 504                 6
June 1905 170                          422            170             4Z2                 844                10
FYE6
Settember 1985         170             592            170             592               1,184                15
Dacenher 1985          226             818            226             8t8              t,636                20
March 1986             26            1,044            226           1,044              2,08'                 26
Jume t9E6              254           1,298            254           t,296              2,596                 32
FY87
Septsber Io           254           1,552            254           1,552              3,104                 39
Deca,iber 1te6         258           t,810            258           1,81O              3,620                45
March 19f7             257           2,067            257           2,067              4,134                 52
Jime 1967              241           2,308            241           2,308              4,616                 58
FY88
September 1967         240           2,548            240           2,548              5,096                64
December 1987          208           2,756            208           2,756              5,512                69
March 1988             208           2,964            208           2,964               5,928                74
June 1988              174           3,138            174           3,138               6,276                78
FY89
September 19E8         166           3,304            166           3,304              6,608                 82
December 1995          131           3,435            131           3,435              6,870                86
March 1599             133           3,568            133           3,568              7,136                 99
June 1989               96           3,666             98           3,666               7,332                91
FY90
September 1989          98           3,764             96           3,764              7,528                 94
December 1999           70           3,834             70           3,834              7,668                96
March 1990              70           3,904             70           3,904              7,8D8                 97
Jime 1990               96           4,00             96           4,a0C               8,000               100
The project is expected to be substantially complete by March 31, 1989 and the credit
to be closed on June 30, 1990.
a/ Disbursmnt estimates are based on the historical profile for
"est Africa, Hi*oays, IDA projects".
WA.20'
Mar. 84
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i.
. ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~ 6                                            ______         _____or ptf1
t   C               /          70 F e =                           /      /      t   ed~~~60    cicrul.tv 
/   60 ;  :/  for Irh propo5ed pjroet.!
4~~~~~~
+   r   /   50 ~   X      /  /                  OeW, AfrIoo R.91O.    i
40                                              fcr road. projrt,.
30 - /ot0-0 o=t=o1i- di.-
R11d.
10
1909      1980    1981   1982   1083  1984    1985   1986   1987   1988   1889    1990   1991          



- 57 -
ANNEX 4-1
GUINEA BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
AVERAGE VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS BY
ROAD CATEGORY AND CONDITION
(1983 US cents/km a./)
Paved Roads           Gravel Roads           Earth roads
Roads condition b/           Fair  Med.  Poor       Fair  Med.  Poor       Fair  Med.  Poor
Passenger cars                29    35    40         35    38    44         44    51    61
Vans, pick-ups, taxis         24    26    29         29    32    36         36    40    49
Buses                         44    46    54         53    57    68         60    68    83
Trucks (7t)                   49    62    70         69    76    89        83    92   102
a/ Taxes excluded.
b/  Fair corresponds approximately at a roughness index of 2000 mm/km, and poor
to 13,000 mm/km.
Source: Consultants Louis Berger International, Ref. No. 2 - Mission Estimates,
Ref. No. 8.
WAPT2
Mar. 1984



- 58 -
ANNEX 4-2
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
ANNUAL COMPARISON OF CONDITION OF THE ROADS
WITH AND WITHOUT THE PROPOSED PROJECT
(km)
With Project                Without Project a/
Road Conditions                Road conditions
Good      Fair      Poor       Good       Fair      Poor
Paved Roads
1984                82        123         _         10       195        -
1985               205         -    -              -         150        55
1986               185         20         -         -         88       117
1987               123         82         -       108         10        87
1988                98         97        20       205         -         -
Gravel Roads
1984               101         29        24         -         29       125
1985               132          -        22         -           7      147
1986               154          - -            -               -       154
1987               127         27         -         -         -        154
Earth Roads
1984                59         89         -        101         47       -
1985                76         72         -         -         148       -
1986               148          -         -         -          91       57
1987                76         72         -         _          29      119
a/ Rehabilitation work postponed until 1987/1988.
Source: Mission estimate.
WAPT2
Mar. 1984



GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
PAVED ROADS REHABILITATION PROGRAM
BASIC ASSUMPTIONS
Bissau       Bula      Canchungo       Bula        Bula    Mansoa-   Bambadica-    Buba
Streets   Canchungo       Cacheu    Sao Vicente   Binar   Bissora           Gabu       Quebola
Traffic
-  Length (km)                                 10          10            32             20         10         25          88           10
- Traffic (1984)
Total v.p.d.                          426         125            103            54         67         73          215          41
(of which Trucks %)                   (15)        (11)           (14)          (18)       (31)       (17)        (20)         (40)
-  Traffic Growth (% p.a.)                    6.5           4             4              6          4          4           4            4
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Costs, 1984/1990
A.  With Proposed Project
-  Road quality index before rehab.b/         1-5         2.5           2.3            3.0        3.2        3.0         2.5          2.8
-  Rehabilitation Cost (MOO)0                 316         135           560            320        155        488        1936          215
-  Cost/km (SOOO)                            31.6        19.5          17.5             16       15.5       19.5          22         21.5
-  Assumed date of execution                 1984        1984       1984/85       1985/86   1985/86         1985    1985/86          1986
-  Date of next periodic maintenance         1990        1991       1991-92           1991       1992       1992        1992         1993
B. Without Proposed Project
-  Road quality index before rehab.b/         3.5         3.7           3.7            4.2        3.9        4.5         3.2          3.5
-  Rehabilitation Cost ($000)                 380         237           677           444         258        732        2664         288
-  Cost/km (SOOO)                            38.0        23.7          21.1             24       25.8       29.2        30.2        28.8
-  Assessed date of execution                1987        1986          1987           1988       1988       1987    1987/88          1988
-  Vehicle operating costs(US cents/km)    32              34            31             33         38         35          33           38
a/  22 km of the road are being declassed to gravel road standard.
b/  For the economic evaluation, roads have been classified into five categories, where cat. 1 corresponds to a roughness index of    X<
about 2,000 mm/km, and 5 to a roughness index of approximately 13,000 mm/km.                                                                    4-
Source:  Consultant's report, Project File, Ref. No. 3 and mission estimate, Project File, Ref. No. 9.                                              L
WAPT2
Mar. 84



GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
GRAVEL ROADS REHABILITATION PROGRAM (154 km) a/
BASIC ASSUMPTIONS
('000 Dollars)
A. Vith Proponed Project
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Road quality index
(before rehab.A                    2.3    1.4    1.5    1.9    2.4    2.9    t .7    2.2    2.3    2.4    3.1
Total V.O.C.                           521    612    823    918   1009   1049   1027   1010   1141    968   1068
Rehabilitation Cost                   1447    780    165
Periodic Maintenance Cost                                            140    370    248
Routine Maintenance Cost                -       -      22      61    117    108       48     10      3-     52    101
Total Annual Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Cost              1447    780    187       61    257    478    296       10      37     52    101
Cumulative Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Cost              1447   2227   2414   2475   2732   3210   3506   3516   3553   3605   3706
0
B.  Vithout Proposed Project c/
Road quality index
(before rehab. Al                  3.4    3.8    4.2    4.3    2.9    1.2    1.5    1.7    2.3    2.8    2.1
Total 1.O.C.                           738    Q60   1277   1317   1060    920    979   1103   1177   1025    915
Rehabilitation Cost                     -       -      -      498   1320   1500
Periodic Maintenance Cost                                                                           140    240    240
Routine Maintenance Cost                43      69    102    113      61      10     25      57      67    104      20
Total Annual Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Cost                43     69    102    611   1381   1510        25      57    207    344    260
Cumulative Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Coat                43    112    214    825   2206   3716   3741   3798   3005   4349   4609
a/  Detailed estimates by section are available in Project File, Ref. No. 9.
F/ For roads quality, indexes defined in Annex 4-3
c/ Works postponed until after 1987/88.
Source: Consultant's report, Project File, Ref. Ro. 3 and mission estimates.
WAPT2
Mar. 84



- 61 -
ANNEX 4-5
GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
EARTH ROADS REHABILITATION PROGRAM (148 km) a/
BASIC ASSUMPTIONS
('000 Dollars)
A. With Proposed Project b/
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Road Quality Index (in points)              2.6    1.9    1.5    2.3    2.7    3.0    3.2    3.5
Total V.O.C.                                318    254    554    641    697    742    803    856
Rehabilitation Cost                                 454    456      13
Maintenance Cost                             13                     89      66     70      75     80
Total Annual Maintenance/
Rehabilitation Cost                    13    454    456    102       66      70     75      80
Cumulative Maintenance/
Rehabilitation Cost                    13    467    923   1025   1091   1161   1236   1316
B.  Without Proposed Project  /
Road Quality Index (in points)              2.6    2.9    3.2    3.5    3.7    1.5    2.0    2.5
Total V.O.C.                                318    338    694    766    843    626    690    781
Rehabilitation Cost                                                        108   1116
Maintenance Cost                             13      39     82      92     89       5      34     64
Total Annual Maintenance/
Rehabilitation Cost                    13     39      82     42    197   1121       34      64
Cumulative Maintenance/
Rehabilitation Cost                    13     52    134    226    423   1544   1578   1642
a/ Detailed estimates by section are available in Project File, Ref. no. 9.
b/ For roads quality, indexes defined in Annex 4-3.
c/ Rehabilitation/upgrading works posponed until 1987/1988.
WAPT2
Mar. 84



CUINEA-BISSAU
SECONDS ROADS PROJECT
COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS
REHABILITATION PROGRAM
All Roads
(in US$,OO
-------------- With Project --------------         ------------- Without Project ------------
Rehabil.     Periodic      Routine                  Rehabil.    Periodic       Routine
Cost     Maint. Cost  Naint. Coat  V.O.C.           Cost    Maint. Cost  Maint. Cost  V.O.C.          Benefit on   Benefit on    wenefit on
Ci           C2            C3         C4            B1           B2            B3         B4          (Bj-C45        (ct           fehabi
1984       2,838              -          448       4,320             -           -           688       4,680            360           240         -2,838
1985       2,713              -           40       4,644                         -           878       5,522            878           838         -2,713
1986        1,936             -          165       5,374             -           -         1,001       6,765          1,391           936         -1,936
1987            -             -          412       6,031         2,120           -           637       6,427            396           225           2,120
1988            -             -          816       6,400         4,350           -           165       6,087           -313          -651           4,350
1989            -           140          877       6,896         2,222           -            78       5,964           -922          -939           2,222     2
1990            -           590          821       7,350             -           -           517       6,509           -841          -894
1991            -           952          595       7,787             -           -           751       7,279           -508          -796
1992            -        1,695           193       7,082             -         140           849       8,109          1,027          -899
1993            -           120          223       6,627             -         220           837       7,878          1,051           714
1994            -             -          702       7,530             -       2,120           304       7,254           -275         1,722
1995            -             -          375       1,949             -       1,017             -       1,477           -472           642
1996            -             -          336       1,836             -           -            25       1,449           -387          -311
1997            -             -             --                                                 -           -
Total       7,487        3,497         6,003                     8,692       3,497         6,730
Economic Rate of Return   29%
Detailed data for each category and section of roads are available in Project File, Ref. No. 9.
Source: Consultant's report, Project File Ref. No.3. Mission estimate.
WAPT2
Mar. 84



GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
All Roads
(in USS'OOO)
------------- With Project ---------W---              -------------- Without Project ---------____
Routine       Periodic    Residual                     Routine        Periodic    Residual
Maint. Cost   Maint. Cost      Value    V.O.C.         Maint. Cost   Maint. Cost        Value    V.O.C.        Net value
c1            C2            c 3        C 4             B1             B2            B3        B4
1984         265                            -    3,790              140               -             -    3,845               -70
1985         300               -            -    4,120              165                             -    4,255                 -         '
1986         225               -            -    4,350              135               -             -    4,585               145
14R7         270             620            -    4,640              175             740             -    4,925               310
1988         245             145            -    5,140               40           1,675             -    4,700              884
1989         230           1,340            -    4,820               65           1,750             -    4,640                65
1990         140           1,120            -    4,840               80               -             -    4,795           -1,225
1991         255               -       -2,091    5,040              135               -        -2,238    5,130             -177
Economic Rate of Return = 137%
Detailed estimates by category and section of roads are available in Project File, Ref. No. 9.
Source: Consultant's report, Project File Ref. No. 3.
WAPT2
Mar. 84



- 64 -
ANNEX 4-8
GUINEA BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS a/
FERRY REHABILITATION COMPONENT
(US$ 000's)
Economic          Economic          Economic
Capital     Recurrent           Benefits          Benefits          Benefits
Investment      Costs           JAO LANDIM           FARIM          SAO VICENTE
1985         430
1986                        8                142.0              24.65             34.55
1987                        8                152.9              25.26             35.39
1988                        9                156.0              26.76             38.42
IGQQ                     10                164.1              27.86             39.66
1990                       50                171.0              29.67             42.39
1991                       11                178.2              31.07             45.44
1992                       11                189.6              32.77             46.78
1993                       12                199.1              34.28             49.62
1994                       12               209.6               36.98             50.97
1995                       60               220.0               38.38             54.32
1996        -100           13               230.5               38.48             57.07
Economic rate of return * 48%
a/ Detailed calculations are available in the Project File, Ref. No. 9.
Source: Consultant's report, Project File, Ref. No. 3.
Mission estimate, Ref. No. 9.
WAPT2
Mar. 84



GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES RECOVERY
(in US '000)
Cost and Revenue Components
Recurrent Expenditures a/                              Fuel Tax Yield                   Balance
Routine       Periodic       Total Recurrent      Theoretical       Percentage      Actual
Year        Maintenance   Maintenance        Expenditdres           Yield   c/   of Recovery d/   Yield
1985            287            1,900            2,187               1,909               30           573        (1,614)
1986            471            2,019            2,490              2,114                50         1,057        (1,433)
1987            624            2,138            2,762               2,342               80         1,873          (889)
1988            791            1,456            2,247              2,394                95         2,274            27
1989            895            1,627             2,922              2,874               98         2,816           294
1990          1,045            1,876            2,921               3,183              100         3,183           262
1991          1,202            2,138             3,340              3,576              100         3,576           236
------------------------                                                                            01%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ul
a/  Based on figures in the Action Plan, Annex 2-3 Table 2, in US$ at current prices, with assumed annual inflation
of 6%.
b/ Periodic maintenance is recurrent capital investment, but has to be covered in the long run by tax revenue.
This is one of the targets of the project.
c/ 1985 theoretical yield is based on fuel consumption level equal to the average of the 1980-82 period, with the
existing tax level. From 1985 onward, theoretical yield projections are based on a 4.5% annual incrase in fuel
consumption, and inflated 6% per annum. Under the assumption that the inflation differential between Guinea-Bissau
and USA will be compensated by exchange rate adjustments.
d/ Assuming gradual improvements in enforcing tax laws and eliminating exemptions. Shortfalls in these actions must be
offset by higher tax rates.
WAPT2
Mar. 84
tz



GUINEA-BISSAU
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFIT FLOWS-
(in percentage and in US$ '000)
Rood maintenance and rehabilltation                                                                    Ferries
I~~~~~~~
Savings on              Savings on Govt.                                             Savings on trip                 Savings on
VOC                  expenditure/road                                               length (cost)               Induced traffic
maintenance
11117                        148                                                          2 .          F                 1
Primary beneficiaries                Transporters                       Tax Payers                      Retareers(    Producers
Final beneficiaries                                                                                                  Retailers/ 1oducer
/ 16~~~~irs                                        \TSraS/6S 4%/ 0 der
194 Benefit for a standard year (1991), In thousand USS.
a/  Distribution of benefIts for average year 1991, expressed in constant USS at 1983 prices.
W1 Average over the 1984-1997 period.
WAPT 2
Mar. 84



'  L  <  Idi 30 tnlaxJ            Fo Dpo.       j< fJ ?  - .J )                   ls 30                                     ISi0O 430 0o                                                                      i4'                                                 IBDECEMRER 1730CR
030                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6W1-31  4 3    A30
I                Suon ,-  -S        A k B g  o  <     ~    41G                                         *j                                                                                                                  b    d
2 S r E t\ 9R<=S->' 2 < X/ S E  N  E  G A L
C   ;   i;  \[d  41  =,..  ,,. * X 7 A; ,/z ,- s\E ,:1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--   --   --   --   --   --    --  
00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <'CC''  ~//X9-Xt O   C Ua>   _    
| 3C ,  ?                                                                                                                                    0>.it                   Mopopr' SECOND ROADS PROJECT
:  0 2 0 >::   ; t; 4   iA lr  %    !j$: f  t;  M   A   :0;dd Y df Bb   >    <    /r      7 riono--                           /                                                                                     Rooon      benoo Rhbr t ed order
:   W  4  fQ~~~~~~0                                 ocrrro C                        >.                                                                                                                                          f.  -  .i t f34  f  _fF_/)  dtof he Seirst Reeds Proioct
:~  ~ ~ <                  c .     JK,:   (b; :>.    i vbYC; L Ai A  r                                             EJCri            '0"' obi;      A   C2fr A)iit fy  /     >'g                           -N   S                        Red te e  Reb oana  itted by rverC
:                              C vb- <    sVrt         @ i;c /<  '(             AX                       :"':'  ,-- zL        m                               .    )                       0                                   5v                          Fe Seces Roeeds Prortest
A,                 ,    7      , -,p:                                            \             i    f e :J2 9                 /             9      Geior >  U I     N      E             A          /                         Fer nes Mfonged bPorfC
L~~~~~~~~)s i    a                                                                -(~k                                   c,s          oroc )14y                *                               ;'                                                   LI |MOCU  Dk/Mep Qots
'4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/C
:   ./  t  CCA~~~~~~~~~"                                                                      iT              ') O nhiL nr~ed: G                                         dlm-^TR I  Nt;;;a                                             C   .i 5'  <t  r;;   ^ ;; i  :--Inernotionol Peundre
llaE~~~~~~~rI    0                                                                                    ...........-:, '    ::<   I                                          '< a                                              '=r    sternetiorrol. Airpo:;r    t.2:  ;  
1030'h                   Ericd.Mnfo0o S    3r                                       I   s        tA3!C~          rtYt0/                                                                                                        '      Ohe Airort /A4nroo
_                        1:      '   A                .                                                                                                                .
MAOOiTNIA                                  '                 i         D                                        t~>5>/ JeoeAhood
MAO  ,,'<                                          "                                                                       <'5<                        $                                                              Ferries~QLAM
tEISS~~At~  '  GUINEA   '0  (  ,r,'rernr"frsr                                    '~~~~~~<      <9~$>Lr                                                                                   >GUINwo-pS SA
CARsv,VEerr
<  ~~~  '0">"~~~~    OrrrovooeOrmeoOOS CONmROAS4PR                                                                                                                                                                JEC
>0   C'  ~   ~z2rorrrver>Ab                                50      0)s,                                                                                                                                                         OHIO    pt
SIERRA LPOt46                                                                    """jo       n  C'''<                                                                                       Reg errol Pooneor en~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R.d, ~hbdtwd   de
-,  e=oo,onrordo,oev=o                                               30      40 5- ,
~~  "'t   COAST  rresre>noreer or;:  IOrAIMETERO '                                                                  0 ~~~~~~~                                                                              -  '-   niernoriosoth   Boosoor.d, POse
OOrrOroOeIAroroA M o''N'!                            W       0                                                                                                                                                                RCvrbvroro.  dCiteS
LLBEEiAt'>  K1  ox,ir sooioar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  n  in  on  op  AC            t         I~~~e  ec,dR.&   ,. c
'''rrnnnrrrvernen~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!,I
s                                                                                                                                                                                       AA~~~~~~ q.d by MCPCU~~~~~~~~~0
000                    0 50                                                                                030                                      1000'~~~~~~~~~~~~~ P,  J  MOCUD.w



