SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF18 GUB
Special Fund Credit Agreement
(Second Roads Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the
International Development Association
Dated                             , 1984


﻿SPECIAL FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           (A.A- e  2-       , 1984, between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU (he ' inafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FUND established with funds contributed by certain
members of the International Development Association (hereinafter
called the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) by Resolution No. IDA 82-6, adopted on Octo-
ber 26, 1982, of the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) there has been
established by IDA a Special Fund constituted by the funds which
shall be contributed by certain members of IDA and administered
by IDA, acting as Administrator of such Special Fund, for the
purpose of, and in accordance with, the provisions of said
Resolution;
(B) the Borrower has requested of the Administrator assis-
tance from the resources of the Special Fund in the financing of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the
Administrator has determined that such assistance would be in
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution referred to
above;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) IDA is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to three million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 3,900,000) (hereinafter called the IDA
Credit); and
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the Kuwait
Fund   a loan (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan) in an
amount equivalent to five million one hundred thousand dollars
($5,100,000) to assist in the financing of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Kuwait Fund; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Special Fund Credit to the Bor-
rower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated June 30, 1980, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association
acting as the Administrator of the Special Fund referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Fund Credit Agreement;
(b)  the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "Special Fund Credit Agreement", "Special Fund
Credit" and "Special Fund Credit Account", respectively;
(c) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement have the res-
pective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Fund Resolution" means Resolution No. IDA 82-6
of the Executive Directors of IDA which, inter alia, establishes
the Special Fund;
(b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Ldministrator of the Special Fund referred
to in the Preamble to this Special Fund Credit Agreement;


﻿(c)  "Part I member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part I of Schedule A to those Articles;
(d) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA which is
not a Part I member of IDA; and
(e)  "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the purpose
of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of IDA, dated June 30, 1980, as
made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to
the Development Credit Agreement and all schedules to the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Special Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions in the Special Fund Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to three million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 3,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Special Fund Credit may
be withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if
the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods producMi in,     r services supplied    from, the
territories of (A) any Part II member of IDA; (B) any Part I
member of IDA which fulfills the conditions set forth in para-
graph 13 (d) (ii) of the Special Fund Resolution on the date of
this Agreement, as determined by the Administrator.


﻿Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990, or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Admin-
istrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Special Fund Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Special Fund Credit Account or
shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the Special Fund Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each June 1 and December 1, commencing June 1, 1994
andending December 1, 2033, each installment to and including the
installment payable on December 1, 2003 to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.09. 2he currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, the Borrower shall carry out Parts
A, B, C, D and F of the Project through MOPCU and Part E of the
Project through MTT, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineer-
ing, training and planning practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) In order to carry out its obligations under para-
graph (a) of this Section and without limitation or restriction
thereon, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain in Pesos an account at
BNGB in the name of MOPCU; (ii) not later than January 31, in
each FY during the execution of the Project, deposit in this
account the necessary funds to finance the execution of Parts A,
B, C, D and F of the Project during that FY; and (iii) by
December 31, in each FY during the execution of the Project
provide in the budget for a separate allocation to finance the
execution of Part E of the Project during the following FY and,
thereafter, make available to 4TT the funds so allocated.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of carrying out Part E of the
Project, the Borrower shall, not later than November 30, in each
FY, furnish to the Administrator a work program satisfactory to
the Administrator to be carried out by DTT during the following
FY and supported by evidence satisfactory to the Administrator of
an adequate budget allocation therefor.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator for its
approval a road rehabilitation program, including a calculation,
in accordance with methods satisfactory to the Administrator, of
the economic rate of return of the proposed rehabilitation. The
Borrower undertakes not to present to the Administrator any road
rehabilitation proposals with an economic rate of return of less
than 12%.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than three
months before commencement of any overseas study courses included
in Part C of the Project, furnish to the Administrator a proposal


﻿-6-
satisfactory to the Administrator detailing the courses to be
followed and the qualifications and experience of the persons who
will follow them.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the persons trained pur-
suant to paragraph (a) above will remain at the service of the
Borrower during at least three years after completing their
training.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall carry out an Action Plan
satisfactory to the Administrator; such plan, inter alia, to
include:
(a) not later than January 1, 1985, the establishment and
thereafter the operation of a Road Fund (RF);
(b) the adjustment from time to time and collection of
road-user charges, including taxes on the importation and sale of
petroleum products, so as to cover the cost of a road maintenance
program satisfactory to the Administrator to be carried out in
accordance with adequate road maintenance standards and prac-
tices;
(c) the deposit in the RF of all revenue from said charges
necessary to finance said road maintenance program;
(d) not later than January 1, 1985, the reorganization of
the Borrower's agencies or departments responsible for road
maintenance in order to streamline the administration of its road
maintenance operations; and
(e) not later than October 31 in each FY during the execu-
tion of the Project, the review with the Administrator of the
adequacy of MOPCU's staffing levels.
Section 3.06. In order to assist MOPCU and MTT in carrying
out the Project and preparing bidding documents for the acquisi-
tion of goods and services required by the Project, the Borrower
shall employ, not later than September 30, 1984, management,
financial  and   engineering  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association, such consultants to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as


﻿- 7 -
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981; provided,
however, that the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement shall apply to the employment of such
consultants and that the said Guidelines shall be read as con-
taining the said restrictions.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Admin-
istrator, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Administrator shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable the Administrator's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator quarterly reports
with all such information as the Administrator shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Special Fund Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Administrator, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to


﻿- 8 -
the Administrator a report of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Administrator of their respective obligations
under the Special Fund Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Special Fund Credit.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Administrator,   promptly   after   such   acquisition,   evidence
satisfactory to the Administrator that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, not later than May 31,
1985 for the first time and not later than July 31 in each FY
thereafter during the execution of the Project, furnish to the
Administrator for comment: (a) MOPCU's road investment and
maintenance program for the following FY; and (b) MOPCU's annual
budget proposal therefor.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Special Fund Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Special Fund
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; and
(iii) enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such
records.


﻿- 9 -
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in Section 2.02 (c) and in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section
for each FY audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Administrator; (ii) furnish to the Administrator, as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested, including
without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish
to the Administrator such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause all its national road
network and its road maintenance equipment to be maintained
adequately and shall cause all necessary repairs and renewals
thereafter to be made promptly, all in accordance with appro-
priate engineering standards and economic practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, equipment,
services and other resources required for the foregoing.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, not later than January 1,
1985 and thereafter, take all necessary measures to ensure that
the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using its national road
network do not exceed limits consistent with the design standards
of such roads.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) (i) Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph
(a):


﻿- 10 -
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant, loan or credit made to
the  Borrower   (including   the  Development
Credit) for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing there-
for; or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof;
(ii) sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph (a) shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfac-
tion of the Administrator that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b) The Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement shall have not become
effective by October 1, 1985 or such later date as the Adminis-
trator may agree, provided, however, that the foregoing shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Administrator that adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions con-
sistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agree-
ment.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified pur-
suant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event specified
in sub-paragraph (a) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur subject to the proviso of sub-paragraph (a) (ii) of
that Section.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section  6.01.   The  following   events  are  specified   as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Special Fund
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) that the Special Accounts referred to in Section 2.02
(c) of this Agreement have been opened;
(b) that the Borrower has opened       the account of BNGB
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and has
deposited therein twenty million Pesos to finance the execution
of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project during FY 1984; and
(c) that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Development Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date -e   1           ' 2       is hereby
specified for the purposes o Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as administrator of
the Special Fund pursuant to paragraph 17 of the Special Fund
Resolution, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower,
designate another party which, on the date specified in such
notice, shall assume part or all of the rights and obligations of
the Administrator under this Agreement in accordance with the
Special Fund Resolution and such decision of the Executive
Directors, as specified in such notice.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministerio da Economia e Finanoas of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia e Finanqas
CP 67
Bissau
Guinea-Bissau
Cable address:                      Telex:
BANGUINE                            969-11
Bissau
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Fund
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
By  /      ) <ett <       (AOe     0    7
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the International
Development Association
BC y/(Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Special Fund
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Road maintenance           1,460,000         100% of foreign
equipment and                              expenditures and
works, equipment                            50% of local ex-
for DTT, rehabili-                          penditures
tation of equip-
ment by contract
(2) Wages of temporary           880,000         74%
MOPCU employees
(3) Ferry boat, engine           240,000         100% of foreign
and spare parts                            expenditures and
for ferry fleet                             50% of local ex-
penditures
(4) Technical assistance         550,000        100% of foreign
for road maintenance,                       expenditures and
consulting and                             50% of local ex-
auditing services,                         penditures
and study of ferry
needs
(5) Unallocated                  770,000
TOTAL           3,900,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of, and for goods produced in or services supplied
from, any country other than the Borrower which is (A) a Part II
member of IDA or (B) a Part I member of IDA which fulfills the
conditions set forth in paragraph 13 (d) (ii) of the Special Fund
Resolution on the date of the Special Fund Credit Agreement, as
determined by the Administrator; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit shall not be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of
any such taxes levied on or in respect of items in any Category
decreases or increases, the Administrator may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such Category as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Administrator.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Fund Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Fund Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Fund Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such ex-
penditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.


﻿- 16 -
6.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit, and the Administrator may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Administrator under the Special Fund Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Special Fund
Credit as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Froject
The Project is a continuation of the Botrower's Roads Pro-
ject financed under Credit No. 878 GUB and its -ibjective is to
assist the Borrower further in the rehabilitation and maintenance
of its road network and to improve ferry operations.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Rehabilitation of Roads
(i) Rehabilitation of about 200 km of paved roads in
accordance with the design standards set forth in
Part A of the Exhibit to this Schedule;
(ii) rehabilitation of about 300 km of unpaved roads in
accordance with the design standards set forth in
Parts B and C of the Exhibit to this Schedule; and
(iii) acquisition of road construction equipment and
vehicles.
Part B:   Maintenance of Roads
(i) Establishment   of   a  routine   road  maintenance
capacity based in Bissau and in the Buba, Oio and
Gabu regions; and
(ii) construction   of  or   improvement  to  buildings,
acquisition of field, office and workshop equip-
ment, and vehicles.
Part C:   Training
(i) Training of DPE technical and administrative
staff;
(ii) acquisition of training materials and equipment;
(iii) provision of scholarships for overseas study by
employees of MOPCU; and
(iv) improvement of the MOPCU training center.


﻿- 18 -
Part D:   Ferry Operations
i    Improvement of the administrative and financial
aspects of ferry operations;
(iil acquisition of a 20-30 ton ferry boat and spare
parts therefor;
\iiil  acquisition of a mobile workshop and spare parts
for four existing ferries;
(iv) repair of ferry landing ramps; and
(v) study of long-term ferry needs.
Part E:   Assistance to DTT
(i) Improvement of the operations, data collection and
enforcement activities of DTT;
(ii) acquisition of vehicles, vehicle testing equipment
and traffic counters; and
(iii) acquisition of road signing equipment and mate-
rials.
Part F:   Assistance to MOPCU
(i) Strengthening of MOPCU's planning, administrative,
and accounting capacity;
(ii) improvement of DGU's urban planning and adminis-
tration capacity; and
(iii) improvement of the laboratory operations of MOPCU.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1989.


﻿- 19 -
EXHIBIT to SCHEDULE 2
Design Standards
A.   Bitumen Roads
Surfacing:     Single Surface Dressing or Double Surface
Dressing or Sand Seal depending on existing
surface condition, using screened laterite
aggregate or river sand and MC 3,000 cut back
bitumen, 6 m wide.
Associated     Pre-sealing   patching,  bridge  and   culvert
Works:         repairs, ditch cleaning, making-up and re-
grading shoulders where necessary.
B.   Engineered Gravel Roads
Earthworks:    Earthworks are to be limited to sections
where the existing vertical and/or horizontal
alignment limit safe travelling speed below
60 km/h.
Formation:     Width:           9 m
Paved width:     6 m
Pavement thickness: 15 cm minimum
Minimum height of road crown above invert of
side drain: 45 cm
C.   Earth Roads
Earthworks:    Consistent  with   40  km/h  safe  travelling
speed.
Formation:     Width:           8 m
Pavement: only as and where soil conditions
require.
Normal height of road crown above invert of
side drain: 30 cm


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement and except as provided in Part B here-
of, goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in  the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (July 1980
edition) (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines. The above-mentioned eligibility restrictions shall be
stated in the tender or prequalification documents for the pro-
curement of such goods and civil works.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Administrator as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Administrator shall reasonably request; the Administrator
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to pro-
vide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery


﻿- 21 -
of the goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
(i) Contracts for the construction of buildings under
Part B (ii) of the Project shall be procured on
the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Administrator.
(ii) Contracts for the purchase of spare parts up to
$280,000 equivalent under Parts A (iii), B (ii), D
(ii) and E (ii) of the Project, shall be procured
after obtaining quotations from at least three
potential suppliers. The same procedure will apply
for building materials for force account construc-
tion.
(iii) Road signing and vehicle testing equipment, under
Part E (ii) and (iii) of the Project and equipment
under Part C (ii) of the Project shall be procured
through international shopping after obtaining
quotations from at least three potential sup-
pliers.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Administrator
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding


﻿- 22 -
documents shall require the Administrator's concurrence before it
is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Administrator, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consul-
tants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the eval-
uation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Administrator shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Administrator of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two con-
formed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Administrator shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by


﻿- 23 -
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Administrator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Administrator, if
it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
eunto the         -  day of
FOR SECRETARY


