Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8688
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
(CREDIT 1082-IN)
MAY 23, 1990
Population, Human Resources, Urban and Water Operations Division
Asia Country Department IV
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
tOir offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DHRW          -   Department of Highways and Rural Works
DOH           -   Department of Health
DSW           -   Department of Social Welfare
GTN           -   Goverrnent of Tamil Nadu
IRR           -   Inner Rural Road
Metrowater    -   Madras Metropolitan Water Supply and Sanitation Board
MMA           -   Madras Metropolitan Area
MMC (or MC)   -   Madras Municipal Corporation (or Madras Corporation)
MMDA          -   Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
MUDP I        -   First Madras Urban Development Project
MUDP II       -   Second Madras Urban Development Project
PC            -   Public Convenience
PTC           -   Pallavan Transport Company
PWD           -   Public Works Department
SIDCO         -   Small Industries Development Corporation
TIIC          -   Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation
TNHB          -   Tamil Nadu Housing Board
TNSCB         -   Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board
TNUDP         -   Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project



FOR OFRICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, O.C 20433
USA
Ofike df ODrfcttw-Cewia
Opmatnf I{vatuan
May 23, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIQENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India - Madras Urban
Develonment Project II (Credit 1082-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on India - Madras Urban Development Project II (Credit
1082-IN)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TOR OFFCIAL USE ONLI
MADRAS_ URBAN DPEMVELOMENT PROECT  (CREDIT 1082-INS
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF QONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .  ............................................................               i
Evaluation Su zry   .................            ......... *.........**  . .......*.....*....*.*...*..* .    i
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity   ..................................................          1
Background   .......................................                 ....      1
Project Objectives and Description .........................    2
Project Design and Organization   ...........................                  3
Project Preparation .............. ..... * *..............   ........          6
Project Implementation ........          ..................* .........         7
Project Results ...................................................   12
Project Impacts ...................................................   18
Project Sustainability and Rates of Return   ................   19
Bank Performance   . .........................................   20
Borrower Performance   *..*..*...*t..........................                20
IDA/Borrower Relationship   .......... ............ .............   21
Consulting Services   ..         . . ......................... .    21
Contractors  ..       ................. . .. .....................   22
Project Documentation and Data   ............................    22
Evaluation Summary and Lessons of Experience   ............ .   22
PART II PROJECT REVIEW PROM BORROVER'S PERSPECTIVE
Borrower's Perspective of the Design and Implementation
and its Development Impact on the Project   .................   25
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits   .........................   44
Project Timetable   . ................            ........................    44
Disbursements  ......................................   45
Project Implementation              .........................    46
Project Costs and Financing   ...............................   47
Status of Covenants   .................................... .    48
Use of Bank Resources ............ *.#......  .. . ......    50
This document has a restrted distdbution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
-of their official duties Its contents may not othenise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II (CREDIT 1082-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Urban
Development Project in Madras, for which Credit 1082-IN in the amount of
US$42.0 million was approved on December 16, 1990. The Credit was closed
on March 31, 1988, two years behind schedule. It was fully disbursed and
the last disbursement was on October 3, 1988.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population, Human Resources,
Urban and Water Operations Division, India Department of the Asia Regional
Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower,
(Part II).
This PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Credit and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



ii
IMDI
INDJ
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II (CREDIT 1082-IN}
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.        The objectives (para. 7) of the Second Madras Urban Development
Project (MUDP II) were: (i) to further develop and expand low cost solutions to
urban problems in Madras, initiated under the first Madras Urban Development
Project, particularly in the shelter sector; (ii) to support the re-orientation
of shelter and infrastructure investments and programs in the Madras Metropolitan
Area to be more responsive to the needs of the urban poor; (iii) to expand the
capacity of the institutions providing shelter, infrastructure and transport;
(iv) to ensure replicability of project approaches by continuing full cost
recovery in slum improvement and other sectors; (v) to support more effective
metropolitan planning and capital programming and budgeting.
Implementation Exoerience
ii.       The project was to be completed in about 5 years.  However, the project
had to be extended for two one-year periods and actually took closer to 8 years
to implement (paras. 25-28). The execution of the project was delayed by
difficulty in acquiring land for sites and services and slowness in the output of
public sector plots for the sites and services scheme. It also took longer than
planned to acquire land for the Ring Road, the construction of which was also not
well-managed. Difficulty in removing squatters delayed the execution of the
storm drainage component of the project. The experience with procurement under
the project was mixed. There were considerable delays early in the project due
to a lack of attention to procurement during preparation and Borrower weakness in
handling procurement efficiently. However, procurersnt efforts improved over
time. Total project cost was 192 more thar the Rs 73.9 crores projected by the
SAR. However, the physical programs for sites and services, slum improvement,
and bus services were respectively 22X, 20X, and 55X larger than anticipated at
the time of appraisal (para. 39). There was an almost three year gap in
disbursements compared to appraisal. forecasts. This stemmed from the delays
noted above and the suspension of disbursements against the bus component when
the Pallavan Transport Company was unable to meet its financial obligations under
the project (para. 40). Implementation was characterized throughout by a
management team which was quite continuous, committed to the Project, and which
collaborated well with the Bank Group.
iii.      On the whole, the project achieved its physical and financial
objectives, but at only about half the pace anticipated in ths SAR. About 18,300
plots for sites and services were completed, compared to 15,000 planned and the
demand for them has been about 10 times the number of plots marketed (para 43).
About 60,000 households benefited from slum improvement, compared to 50,000



iii
planned and the number of areas effected also exceeded plans (para. 52). The bus
company procured 885 buses, while only 550 were planned. The bus company also
efficiently implemented the terminals and depots elements of its component (para.
;2). The small scale business sheds and machinery loans component was not
successful in meeting its aims. The storm drains component was still incomplete
at the beginning of 1989 and some of the drains were already functioning
inefficiently due to lack of maintenance (paras. 63-65). The project appears to
have had much less impact on municipal maintenance and services than planned.
iv.       Several other positive outcomes of the project (paras. 78-82), however,
are also of note:
Sectoral Rolicy. The Project had a major positive impact on attitudes
to sites and services and slum improvement, confirming that the approach could be
successfully used to tackle the shelter problem. The project success in the
public sector also opened the way for experiments in private sites and services
which were incorporated as a Guided Development component in the later Tamil Nadu
Urban Development Project.
Human resources develogment. Over the course of the project, a core of
seasoned and e-perienced staff were developed in the implementing agencies.  As a
result, there is sufficient critical mass to provide a basis for the subsequent
state-wide project now being implemented.
Physical environment. The project improved the overall environment in
sites and services and slum areas and established that sites and services were
not 'planned slums" as had been argued a decade earlier.
Poverty and income distribution. A major objective of the shelter
program was achieved: more than 70X of the beneficiaries of the shelter program
are in the income group at or below the poverty level. Some selling out to
higher iucome groups and infiltration of higher income groups into the plots
reserved for lower income groups has occurred. On the whole, however, the
physical design and location planning approaches of the project seemed to have
worked effectively. Most project beneficiaries experienced substantial increases
in their real income and wealth as is evident from the amount of investment that
took place in project areas and the prices quoted for plots in scheme areas.
Institutions. Although some of the project agencies proved stubbornly
resistant to improvement, others steadily improved and reached levels of
performance toward the end of MUDP II which sharply and positively contrasted
with their performance at the outset.
Rates of Return and Sustainability
v.        The economic rates of return on the sites and services and slum
improvement components were easily achieved, since unit costs of investment in
these components were not much greater, or less than forecast, while market rents
for serviced land in these components grew at a proportionately greater rate than
costs in a sellers' scarcity market. Reflecting the shortage of affordable
serviced land in Madras, a rate of return in sites and services of more than 15X
per year is likely to be maintained (para. 83). The growth in vehicular traffic



iv
is generally greater than the growth in population on main arteries such as the
MUDP II Inner Ring Road and the improved Madras-Tiruvellore High Road. Traffic
growth is greater than earlier projections on sections of the Ring Road built
under the first proiect and road capacity is being expanded under the Tamil Nadu
Urban Development Project. It may be expected that the same trend will be
followed on the MUDP II roads and the economic rate of return on these roads is
likely to be maintained (para. 94X. Recent projections for the bus component in
the Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project indicate that rates of return projected
under MUDP II are being realized. Staffing and wage issues, however, continue to
pose long-run risks to the bus company (paras. 85-87).
Lessons Learned
vi.       The project demonstrated a number of key lessons (para. 101):
Bus Fare Revisions. In retrospect, IDA might have focused more
attention upon improvements in the process for the revision of fares. The
existing process concentrated fare revision decisions with the state government
a.d a Transport Commission, neither of which had adequate technical support for
weighing the issues.  In fact, in the final stage of MUDP II, the state
government created a Bus Expert Fare Committee. However, it has only advisory
powers and lacks statutory authority. As yet, therefore, the fare revision
process has not been rationalized and improved.
Public Shelter Programs. It is clear that the whole effort of public
shelter agencies must be directed towards meeting massive city shelter needs with
the limited resources available. Future projects implemented by a public agency
should not contain a Bank-funded component with acceptable objectives, while
contrary objectives are being pursued by the agency with its own funds.
Private Shelter SUDPl1. It is also evident the public sector by itself
cannot meet the shelter needs of the whole population in fast-growing cities.
Constraints on management capacity, financial resources and land availability
dictate that the private sector must be enlisted in the interests of enhancing
the supply of affordable service land, particularly to lower income groups and
possibly through programs such as the Guided Development approach of the Tamil
Nadu Urban Development Project.
Municival Maintenance and Services. Municipalities own, operate and
maintain many of the facilities provided in shelter schemes. Long run
4nvironmental improvements in shelter schemes depend on their capability. Future
projects should address the whole system of municipal administration and finance
in a State and avoid piecemeal financing of projects in individual
municipalities.
Performance Monitoring. Experience has shown that project performance
monitoring and implementation can be strengthened and made more efficient by
closer programming of the financial and operating programs of implementing
agencies.



MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II (CREDIT 1082-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. BANK PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name   t Madras Urban Development Project II (HUDP IT)
Credit No.     i 1082 - IN
RVP Unit       : Asia
Country        s India
Sector         X Urban Development
Sub-sector     t Shelter, including sites and services and slum improvement;
Urban roads and bus transport; Municipal solid waste and
maintenance services.
Background
1.        In 1980, Tamil Nadu was one of India's most densely-populated,
urbanized and industrialized states. Thirty two percent of the population
lived in urban areas, of which one-third were in Madras. The state's per
capita income was among the lowest in India and 59S of the rural population
were estimated to be below the absolute poverty line in the 19709. Rural
income inequalities, stagnating rural incomes and a high rate of growth in
largely urban-based manufacturing and service sectors lead to high rates of
increases in the state's urban population.
2.        The Madras Metropolitan Area, with a 1979 population of about 4.8
million, grew at a rate of SS/yr up to 1971. At the time MUDP II was
developed, Madras was the fourth biggest and the fastest growing Indian
metropolitan area. It was also the trade, commercial and industrial center of
Tamil Nadu and of South India. Investment in public services had failed to
keep pace with population growth of about 200,000 people per year.
3.        Madras suffered serious service deficiencies, particularly in water
supply and shelter. A growing proportion of the population (about 25Z) lived
in poorly-serviced, or un-serviced slum hutment areas. At least another
25-352 of the population lived in older slums of the city or in un-authorized
poorly-serviced settlements. Madras had one of the poorest water supply and
sanitation systems of any major urban area. Municipal services were week,
under-financed and poorly managed. For transport, most people relied on the
public bus service operated by the Pallavan Transport Corporation (PTC), a
relatively efficient organization, which nonetheless provided only a spartan
service on over-crowded buses for lack of adequate financial resources and
policy support.
4.        A substantial proportion of the legal supply of serviced land and
housing was provided by a state agency, the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNBB).



- 2 -
Except for the modest sites and services program supported by IDA under the
first Madras Urban Development Project (MUDP I). its program was concentrated
in high cost units affordable only to higher income groups. This was also
true for the few units supplied by the private sector. Under MUDP I, the
Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) programs had been substantially
re-oriented towards in-situ slum improvement with the provision of tenure.
Nonetheless, the legal supply of shelter by the public and private sectors
continued to meet less than 50Z of the need, resulting in continued growth. of
slums of one kind or another.
5.        The Government of Tamil Nadu (GTN) created the Madras Metropolitan
Development Authority (MMDA) in 1972 to coordinate the provision of services
by local and state agencies within Madras. However, it tended to concentrate
its efforts on physical planning and land use control, not on investment
programming and development planning.
6.        In Madras, the Bank Group had supported two projects prior to MUDP
II: a loan in 1958 for the development of the Port of Madras and a credit in
1977 for the first Madras Urban Development Project (MUDP I). MUDP I
succeeded in initiating the implementation of replicable low-cost solutions to
Madras' shelter and infrastructure problems and sought but did not succeed in
strengthening metropolitan area investment planning and financial management
using MMDA as the vehicle. MUDP I was essentially a single-city demonstration
project for new urban management initiatives.
Project Objectives and Description
7.        The objectives of MUDP II were: (i) to further develop and expand
low cost solutions to urban problems in Madras, initiated under MUDP I,
particularly in the shelter sector; (ii) to support the re-orientation of
shelter and infrastructure investments and programs in the Madras Metropolitan
Area to be more responsive to the needs of the urban poor; (iii) to expand
the capacity of the institutions providing shelter, infrastructure and
transport; (iv) to ensure repli-ability of project approaches by continuing
full cost recovery in sites and services and further increasing cost recovery
in slum improvement and other sectors; (v) to support more effective
metr"politan planning and capital programming and budgeting.
8.        Project components were:
(a)  Sites and Services.  Cons-ruction of serviced residential plots,
core housing and community facilities and provision of building
loans for about 15,000 primarily low income households, and serviced
land, sheds and machinery loans for industrial and commercial uses,
at 2 sites covering about 180 ha.
(b) Slum Improvement. Improvement of on and off-site infrastructure,
provision of land tenure and community facilities for 50,000 slum
households, plus home improvement loans for about 15,000 MUDP I and
38,000 MUDP II households. Also, construction of about 12,750 meters



-3-
of 5 arterial storm dr&ins and construction, repairs and de-silting
of feeder storm drains to benefit about 19,000 households.
(c) Transport. Provision of about 550 buses and depot and terminal
improvements for Pallavan Transport Corporation (PTC); construction
of 6 kilometers of the Inner Ring Road (IRR) and improvements to 14
kilometers of the Madras-Tiruvellor Road.
(d) Solid Waste Management and Maintenance of Municipal Services.
Provision of civil works and equipmcnt and consultancy services, for
the Madras Municipal Corporation (MMC) to improve its solid waste
management and maintenance of municipal services.
(e) Technical Assistance and Training. These were provided to the
Madras Metropolitan Development Authority (MMDA). PTC, the Small
Industry Development Corporation (SIDCO) and MMC for special studies
to identify priorities and prepare programs for medium and long term
in-vestments and for in4titutional strengthening and training.
particularly for MMDA.
Project Design and Organization
9.        MUDP II had its antecedents firmly in the positive lessons and
negative experiences of MUDP I. It also aimed to increase the scale and scope
of the shelter program supported by the first project. Whereas MUDP I had
focused on supply increases in IDA-funded projects, MUDP II placed the IDA
schemes in the framework of the shelter problems and needs and programs for
Madras as a whole. During the preparation and negotiation of MUDP II, IDA and
GTN agreed to act on major weak points revealed during implementation of the
MUDP I project. Chief among these were:
(a) Land Acquisition. It had been wrongly believed in MUDP I that
public land could be quickly transferred to the Tamil Nadu Housing
Board for sites and services. It took several years to effect the
transfer and delayed project implementation on these sites.
Acquisition of private land for the Inner Ring Road was started
late, took 3 times longer than the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
schedule and was particularly delayed when squatters or buildings
were involved. Having this experience in mind, the appraisal team
insisted as a condition of negotiations that land required for MUDP
II sites and services be in the Housing Board's possession.
(b) Tenure for Slum Improvement Beneficiaries. MUDP I provided for
beneficiaries of slum improvement to be provided with secure tenure.
However, by the time MUDP II was approaching appraisal, few tenure
agre-.ents had been made and plot charges could not be collected.
On Ir,s insistence, several thousand Lease-cum-sale tenure
agreements with MUDP I beneficiaries were completed prior to
negotiations and the collections of plot charges was begun.



-4-
(e) Fare Revisions. It was apparent as the appraisal of MUDP II
approached, that a substantial increase in fares--long delayed by
GTN--was needed to meet the financial oblectives of the bus company
under MUDP II. As a condition of negotia_ions for MUDP IT, the state
government revised fares by 252 just prior to negotiations.
Nonetheless, fare revisions soon proved to be the rock on which MUDP
11 foundered during implementation.
(d) Improvements in Municipal Finance and Services. The Madras
Metropolitan Corporation refused to take over completed MUDP I sites
and services and slum Improvement areas for maintenance and
services, pleading lack of funds and claiming MUDP I infrastructure
was 'sub-standard'. The drawbacks of treatinb IDA-funded projects
as aspecial cases, which did not adhere to state and municipal
planning and building regulations began to emerge. Treating the
maintenance and services problem as a revenue, noL a municipal
planning and building regulations problem, and being pessimistic
about property tax revenue increases, GTN implemented an urban
surcharge on the state sales tax. It promised to provide a
substantial and buoyant source of additional funds for the Municipal
Corporation and GTN also agreed at negotiations to increase the
Municipal Corporation's revenues and improve financial management
(SAR page 40).
se) Focus on Expanding Serviced Land SuPply through Public Sector.
During MUDP X, the Tamil Nadu Housing Board continued to spend about
702 of its funds on a relatively small number of high cost units for
higher income groups and the deficits in the supply of affordable
shelter for lower income groups accumulated. During MUDP II
negotiations, agreements were reached that the Housing Board's
non-IDA funded program would be modeled on the IDA-funded approach.
However, these agreements were less forceful than the provisions
sought by the appraisal mission. Also it was agreed that the Tamil
Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) would limit its programs for slum
clearance and re-housing in multi-story units to Rs 3.75 crorealyr
as in MUDP I.
10.       Innovations.  Many of what had been important and contentious
innovations in MUDP I had become accepted by the time of appraisal of MUDP II,
and were re-incorporated in it. Examples of tested innovations weres
(a) IDA and GTN agreed on full cost recovery and no overall and/or
interest subsidy in sites and services, slum improvement or bus
operations.
(b) Affordable planning and engineering standards, based on performance
requirements and costing less than normally-applicable municipal
standards, were accepted, although only for public sector schemes
(o) Differential pricing of plots for various income groups was
accepted. It was also agreed that large proportions of low income



-5-
beneficiaries could be accommodated in the MUDP low-rise, high
density mixed income and mixed use layouts which were more suitable
to incremental expansion and improvement than multi-storey
accommodations favored by the Housing Board.
(d) It was agreed that long-term tenure would be provided to squatter
households in slum bmprovement neighborhoods.
11.       MUDP 1I also included some new innovations:
(a) A city strategy approach was introduced, which placed the supply of
shelter under the project in the context of the total supply from
all sources and its relations to shelter needs.
(b) Grants and loans for Home Improvement, not provided in MUDP I, were
introduced for Slum Improvement Program beneficiaries of NUDP I and
II.
(c) Medicare centers, run by non-governmental organizations, were funded
in sites and services and slum improvement schemes.
4d) A substantial storm drain component was included to complement sites
and services and slum improvement investments, as part of the system
of shelter environmental improvements.
(e) Slums on private land were also to be improved. They were a large
proportion of the unserviced slums in Madras and were in the vorst
environmental condition, because unlike some slums on public land,
they had not benefited from any other earlier non-IDA improvement
programs. Despite the SAR intention, specific agreements on private
slum improvement were not obtained at negotiations.
(fl  In the final year of MUDP II, MMDA introduced semi-private
courtyards within clusters of small low income plots. This
significant design change became the standard pattern in the Tamil
Nadu Urban Project.
12.       Conceptual Foundation.  The understanding of the conceptual
foundations of project components at the time of appraisal was generally good
at all levels. However, GTM may not had adequate confidence in the
need of pursuing the city shelter strategy or the strengthened city planning,
coordination and performance evaluation role which the project envisaged for
the Development Authority.
13.       The higher level of the administration, in the Development Authority
and the key state government departments (Housing and Urban Development,
Municipal Administration and Water Supply, and Transport) understood the
project component concepts well at the time of appraisal. While civil service
administrative practices did not provide for the same management and
ideological continuity as did the technical posts, this was counter-balanced



-6-
by the continuity of technical staff in the implementation agencies and the
Development Authority.
Project Preparation
14.       The bulk of project preparation was done by the implementing
agencies, which interacted with Bank preparation missions, chiefly on
questions of objectives.
15.       Sites and Services.  All of the 15,000 MWDP sites and sert.ces plots
were to be developed on two relatively large sites. As in HUDP I, the
Development Authority prepared layouts and in consultation with the Housing
Board, determined plot prices. Preliminary engineering designs and cost
estimates for these were prepared for appraisal by the Housing Board, the
sites and services implementing agency. The Housing Board and the Development
Authority essentially repeated the processes with which they had experience on
over 10,000 plots developed under MUDP I.
16.       Special attention was paid by preparation and appraisal missions to
the acquisition of land from private owners of these 2 sites. Prior to
negotiations IDA insisted on both sites being fully acquired by the Housing
Board as a condition of negotiation. It then relented and negotiated on the
basis that it was sufficient for acquisition to have reached the final stage
just beforf nanding over. This lead to trouble later.
17.       Slum Improvement.  The Slum Clearance Board identified specific
slums for the first year program under the MUDP II Slum Improvement Program
and prepared final designs, costs and layouts for prototype neighborhoods,
following the program lending approach to the Slum Improvement Program which
had worked relatively well in MUDP I. Physical improvements were to be on the
relatively successful model of MUDP I.
l8.       The Slum Improvement Program implementation plan aimed to use the
MUDP I experience to improve the component's policy thrust by expanding the
program to 50,000 households. To avoid MUDP I problems created by
implementing civil works before completing tenure agreements, the MUDP II
implementation activity schedule provided that signing of Lease-cum-sale
agreement by more than 70% of households in a neighborhood should precede the
start of civil works in a neighborhood.
19.       In order to strengthen community development work on which the
participation of slum households in the Slum Improvement Program and its cost
recovery programs depended, the community development group which had been
attached to the Metropolitan Development Authority and working with the Slum
Clearance Board, was transferred to the Slum Clearance Board.
20.       PTC.   At appraisal, about a 25% increase on the existing level of
fares was projected to be needed to meet the bus company's financial and
operating objectives. Fare revision was made a condition of negotiations
which the state government met. However, during negotiations, without
informing IDA, the state government rescinded 502 of the increase. The bus



-7-
company's cash generation subsequently fell much below the SAR projections.
As project implementation proceeded, this became the problem which eventually
led to a one year suspension of disbursements on MUDP II starting in June
1984.
21.       In other components, objectives familiar to the implementing
agencies from MUDP I as mentioned above were re-asserted. These included:
(a) minimizing costs by constructing projects in phases - such as the
Inner Ring Road - and maximizing the capacity of existing facilities
wherever possible through management measures, as in the case of the
Madras-Tiruvellor High Road scheme;
(b) using design standards closely fitted to actual project performance
requirements;
(c) paying close attention to all users needs and particularly low
income groups and designing roads for the movement of people rather
than vehicles; and
(d) identifying final beneficiaries, particularly to cater to low income
needs.
22.       Project Timing.  The preparation and appraisal of MUDP II occurred
at a time when in India there was a strong perception that slum inhabitants
were becoming a majority of the city population. At the time too, ther2 was a
growing perception that the old approaches - of bull-dozing slums and
re-housing oustees in subsidized rental apartments - were un-workable. There
was a good opening for the alternative in-situ improvement approach which IDA
favored. The importance of providing tenure to families in improved slums
also was starting to be recognized. The timing of MUDP II was therefore
propitious.
23.       Because the project implementation agencies for MUDP II were
essentially the same as in MUDP I, the agencies understood their functions and
responsibilities relatively well and were sufficiently committed to project
objectives, even though agencies internal interests sometimes conflicted with
Bank-funded approaches.
Project Implementation
24.       Overall Implementation.  Viewed from the perspective of the project
objectives described in paragraph 7, the sites and services and slum
improvement and even the roads and bus component have to be considered
successful - despite delays in implementation and other problems mentioned
below. In Madras, the Government of Tamil Nadu was the first state to
implement a full cycle of a large program of low-cost, unsubsidized shelter
schemes, responsive to the needs of the poor ano minimum-cost traffic and
transport schemes which focused on moving people rather than vehicles in a
system providing priority to public transport.



-8-
25.       Implementation Delays.   The project Was to be completed in 4.5
years, but had to be extended twice for a total of 2 years beyond the original
closing date. The physical completion took three years longer than the SAR
estimated. After effectiveness, which was four months after Board approval
project implementation took off briskly using on the land initially available
for sites and services and on the financial capacity thought to be available
for bus procurement. Expenditures followed the SAR forecast with only a six-
month lag for the first two years.
26.       However, the acquisition of the remaining land for sites and
services took several years longer than expected and more than 50S of the
component was eventually implemented on satisfactory sites (at Manali,
Madurvoyal and Mogapper West) that were agreed by IDA during implementation,
but not identified at appraisal. Had IDA insisted on a substantial proportion
of the land required for the sites and services component being acquired by
the Housing Board prior to negotiations (as it did for TNUDP), possibly some
of the implementation delay might have been reduced.
27.       The anticipated annual output of public sector plots and settlement
on them harlly reached one-half of the SAR schedule until the upsurge at the
end of MUDP II. While the main project implementing agency, the Housing
Board, steadily improved its construction and estates transactions management,
it still could not normally adhere to schedules anticipated in the SAR. The
expected public contribution to the overall Shelter Strategy, therefore was
not achieved. Possibly the Housing Board's estates transactions management
and capability might have been given more attention during project
preparation. Once the sluggishness of the estates management activity
revealed itself, GTN vigorously identified and pursued solutions to the
problem, still took more than two years before improvements were realized.
28.       The construction of the Inner Ring Road took twice as long as had
been scheduled, due to both land acquisition and construction management
problems. The improvement of the Madras-Tiruvellor High Road also took longer
than had been projected because of land acquisition delays. Arterial storm
drains construction was also delayed in critical sections, particularly
because of difficulties in removing squatters on the alignment.
29.       As in the case of sites and services scheme areas, insisting on a
substantial proportion of laud being acquired prior to negotiations and better
arrangements for planning and management of implementation could well have
improved the performance of the agencies mentioned above.
30.       The least successful aspects of the project were implemented by
agencies who were newly-involved in MUDP II, whose involvement under MUDP I
had resulted in little improvements in performance, or whose role in MUDP II
was peripheral. Thus PWD, a new MUDP II implementing agency, implemented the
arterial drains component as part of a much larger program of works in the
state and gave the MUDP work relatively low priority. The Metropolitan
Corporation's lackluster performance in MUDP II reflected the underlying - and
long-unresolved - weaknesses of municipalities in a state where the municipal



-9-
role in urban management was in limbo. The Slum Clearance Board continued to
consider itself primarily as a construction agency to whom cost recovery and
tenure were of minor importanca.
31.       By contrast, the major implementing agencies' experience under MUDP
I stood them in good stead during the MUDP II implementation period. There
were seldom problems over the objectives of individual project components,
except in the case of PTC, which was hostage to State Government policies.
Difficulties had to do more vith the management of the means of implementation
rather than the project purposes.
32.       Factors of Success.   The factors that contributed most to the
successes of MUDP II weret
(a) the experience of the implementing agencies under MUDP II;
(b) the continuity of staff and technical management in the implementing
agencies;
(C) using the implementing agencies of MUDP I to implement MUDP II
provided a knowledgeable, experienced basis of technical personnel
for the project in the agencies; and,
sd) focussing responsibility for overall project management and
coordination in the MUDP I - experienced agency, the Development
Authority. PTC had a well-established tradition of promoting its
managers from within the technical cadre of the state bus transport
corporations. In the Housing Board, the same approach was followed.
In the Housing Board, the Department of Highways and Rural Works and
the Slum Clearance Board, separate World Bank Divisions, headed by
Superintending Engineers, we'ere created to implement MUDP.
33.       Because of the above factors, the major implementing agencies in
Tamil Nadu, under the MUDP II, were not troubled by the discontinuities
resulting from staffing on delegation which weaken performance in other
states. HMDA, which was responsible for coordinating project implementation
by functional agencies, had very substantial continuity of personnel in the
key project functional areas: finance, physical planning, and engineering
design.
34.       Constraining Factors.  The factors that interfered most with the
achievement of project objectives were:
(a) insufficient planning and advance action on land acquisition;
(b) inadequate focus during project preparation on the detailed factors
that effect procurement efficieny: bid documents, contract slicing
and packaging;



-10-
(c) lack of GTN support for the financial objectives of the bus company
and the Slum Clearance Board program for land acquisition involving
resettlement of squatters and for the city shelter strategies;
(d) price and factor cost increases that were beyond the control of GOI
or GTN, that sprang out of the OPEC oil price increases of 1980 and
resulted, particularly for PTC, in un-anticipated cost increases
that compounded the problems caused by inadequate and infrequent
fare revisions; and
(e) IDA not insisting on agreements to include private slums in the SIP
of MUDP II, so that in the end, no private slums were improved under
the project.
35.       Anticipated Risks.  The SAR identified the following as risks:
(a) poor collections performance and cost recovery in slum improvement
due to delays in providing tenure;
(b) weaknesses in the construction and implementation capacity of the
Housing Board and the Slum Clearance Board; and
(c) estates transaction administration by the Housing Board which effect
the rate of occupation of sites by beneficiaries.
36.       All of the above turned out to be problems during the implementation
of MUDP II. The SAR was too sanguine about the effectiveness of the steps
taken during project preparation to offset the risks. To improve their
performance, however, the implementing agencies took measures, in addition to
the ones initiated during project preparation. As the project progressed
improvements were registered in all the above areas.
37.       Unforeseen Risks.  Risks inadequately foreseen or explored in the
SAR vere:
(a) The impact of delays and inadequacies in fare increases on the Bus
Company's investment program. It was assumed that the 252 fare
increase required as a condition of negotiation would achieve and
maintain the financial and operational objectives set for PTC over
the main period of project implementation;
(b) Land acquisition difficulties in sites and services, in private
slums in private ownership and in road projects, about which the SAR
too optimistically believed adequate advance planning and action had
been taken; and
(c) Construction and estates management problems in sites and services.
38.       Several risks which could not be foreseen were:



-11-
(a)  The impact of the OPEC oil price increase impact on PTC costs and
financial condition.
(b)  The effects of a single 550 bus procurement.  IDA agreed to
procurement at an early stage of MUDP II of all of the 550 busses
for procurement under OUDP I under one contract, even though the
fare revision prior to negotiations was 502 of what the SAR had
projected to be needed. PTC argued successfully in favor of the
lower price which would be achieved on one large contract, with
delivery phased over about 1.5 years. The lowest evaluated bid
price was a bargain compared to prevailing market prices.   But,
this decision, in combination with fare revision delays, large
increases in operating costs and a fall in ridership, due to putting
a large number of additional busses on the road in a short period,
created a substantial extra burden of debt servicing and expanded
PTC losses. This in turn, led to the failure of PTC to meet
financial objectives for the bus component and eventually a
suspension of MUDP II disbursements for one year.
39.       Project Costs.  Total project cost of Rs 87.8 crores was 192 more
than the Rs 73.9 crores (US$87.9) projected by the SAR, even though the
implemented physical programs for sites and services, slum improvement and bus
services were respectively, 222, 202 and 55? larger than had been anticipated
at appraisal and the project took three more years to complete than originally
projected.
Ta-be:         _ m2anent Cmsts Esgmat Est  Claimed (3s Lakhs)
Comp4nent     Agec I         C 0 completeI     Claimed         -
______________________ OrlniFA ctual  Cost  %  Disbsmt  %
A  Skes and Servies     TNHB     1901    2879   2860   32.9   1097   24.3
TII   _ 477    380    380    4.4    121    2.7
SubTota            27    329    3240   37.3   1217   1 7.0
E. Slum Improvement    lNSCB    2587   2111    2108   24.2    839   18.6
DOW      156      91      91    1.0      60    1.3
OPHC      39      11       8    0.1       4    0.1
Sub Total          2782   2212   2206   25.4    903   20.0
Q  Tanspoft:  Roads    DHFN       532    631      604    6.9    337    7.5
Buose s   r      1260   2205   2205   25.4   1723   38.2
SubTotI            1793   2836   2809   32.3   2060   45.7
D. SolidWaste M           MC      308    295    267    3.1    155    3.4
E. Tech.A1s2is.&T a.    MMDA      126    175    174    2.0    170    9,1
Grand Total          7387   8777   8696  100%    4505   100



-12-
40.       Disbursements.  The one year suspension of the Credit flattened
disbursements at a time when expenditures on the project were also constrained
due to the lack of land for the sites and services component. (See Chart
below).
MUOP 2 Dlsbumements
SAR Estimatoes va ctuate
45.0                                       Last debsmt:1288
40.0 >
35.0           SAResf                          AcWal
30.0                _
US* nUon s25.0
US$"duan20.0,                     dsbsmt 6/1184               Ata
15.0                             dIDA einssdasbsmt   Coing:
10.0                                  5/15185          3-88
5.0                 Original Closing:
3.0                  1.-        i: ; o-            -  -   i  .
6/812/6/SI21/68 121618)112/ 6      6211 12/ 61 121 6/ 12/
1681  2  L2  3  83  4  84 5  85 86 8B 87 87 88 8
Fiscal Years
Project Results
41.       Overall.  Viewed component by component, the project did on the
whole achieve its financial and physical objectives - but at about half the
rate envisaged in the SAR. However, the project did not achieve its strategic
objectives for the shelter sector, nor raise the consciousness of the policy
makers about the importance of developing a comprehensive city shelter
strategy.
42.       There was a reasonable, though not always consistent, level of
support for project component objectives from the state. However, during.
project implementation, it proved difficult to mobilize consistent support
from the state for the broader policy and program objectives of the project.
So the broader project objectives tended to be orphaned as project
implementation proceeded, despite frequent attempts by supervision missions to
re-direct the state's attention to them.
43.       Sites and Services.  15,000 plots were to be constructed and
occupied. In. actuality about 18,300 were constructed, of which about 15,000
are occupied and the remainder were still in course of being allotted and
occupied in the first half of 1989. As intended, 702 of the component
beneficiaries alloted plots were in the 'Economically Weaker Sector' income
group, at or below the poverty line.
44.       Originally estimated to cost Rs 19.0 crores, including
contingencies, or Rs 12,700/household benefitted, Rs 28.6 crores was actually
I



-13-
spent on the sites and services component at a cost of about Rs
15,7371household.
45.       While unit costs increased by about 25Z over the appraisal estimate,
incomes during the project implementation period are estimated to have
increased by a larger percentage. In addition, serviced land values for the
higher income and non-residential plots increased at a much higher rate than
construction costs. Accordingly, project affordability and cost recovery
objectives were not adversely effected by cost escalation.
46.       Sustained collections of plot charges at a rate of over 902 of
demand, assured full recovery of costs - including off-site infrastructure -
and was one of the most significant features of the sites and services
component. The demand for all categories of plots has generally been ten
times the number of plots marketed.
47.       Despite the delays in implementation, in the light of its
objectives, the largest MUDP II component, sites and services, has to be
regarded as a success.
48.       It was anticipated that about as many households would receive
optional Home Improvement Loans as were benefitted by the component. Almost
all households took advantage of the option, which was mostly realized in the
form of materials made available to beneficiaries by the Housing Board.
49.       Private Land Development.  GTN had no specific policy regarding the
significant legal and illegal (unauthorized) shelter supply produced by the
private sector. The MUDP rr SAR included the contribution of the private
sector in its supply and demand analysis and emphasized the need for the state
government and the Metropolitan Development Authority to pursue an overall
shelter strategy in Madras, to which both public and private sectors would
contribute, so that the proportion of households living in slums would be
reduced (para 2.03 SAR). However, no specific measures were agreed in the
project nor developed and implemented under MUDP II to guide the private
sector towards MUDP II's low income shelter objectives.
50.       Small Scale Business Sheds and Machinery Loans. This sub-component
was not particularly successful. About 200 plots, more than half as many
sheds for small scale business (100) and machinery loans were proposed to be
funded under MUDP II. However, only about 50 sheds were funded under the
project. At the outset, the responsibility for small scale business sheds and
machinery loans was with SIDCO. It had diffiLulty collecting loan charges.
Part way through the project IDA agreed that the responsibility for these
efforts could be transfered to the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment
Corporation. It continued to have collections problems.
51.       Originally estimated to cost about Rs 6.0 crores, including
contingencies, about Rs 3.8 crores was actually spent on the the small scale
business and machinery loans component.



-14-
52.       Slum Improvement.  Improvement of 50,000 households in 221 slum
areas was projected and 60,000 households in 250 areas actually received
improvements. Although the quality of the works too often leaves something to
be desired, no doubt they have contributed to improving the environment in
squatter areas.
53.       It was anticipated that the number of tenure agreements would be
about the same as the number of households improved. In fact, only about
23,500, or 40? of the households, obtained lease-cum-tenure and about 17,000
housing improvement loans were completed, well below the anticipated number.
54.       Lease-cum-tenure for Slum ImProvement Program Households.  Issuance
of lease-cum-terure by the Slum Clearance Board and issuance of Home
Improvement Loans lagged behind improvement works. Unresolved problems in
MUDP I, related to conditions of tenure on large plots occupied by squatters,
were not resolved in MUDP II and came back to plague the Tamil Nadu Urban
Project. Households in Slum Improvement areas are unevenly benefited by
improvements, particularly on large plots.
55.       When the Community Development Wing was detached from MMDA, it was
attached too low in the Slum Clearance Board's hierarchy. Overwhelmed by the
engineering staff, its effectiveness was reduced, contributing to the
weaknesnes in the lease-cum-tenure and home improvement loan programs and
collections performance.
56.       Home Improvement Loans for Slum Improvement Households.  Though
initially promising, the grant and loan program did not succeed in the end. A
study of the loan program concluded that households faced Slum Clearance Board
procedural complexities which outweighed the value of the relatively small
loans made available.
57.       Originally the expenditure on the Slum Improvement component was
estimated to be Rs 28.8 Crores with contingencies, or Rs 5760/benefitted
household. The actual expenditure of Rs 22.1 Crores, or ks 3683lhousehold was
much lower than anticipated at appraisal, because of lower-than-anticipated
expenditures on Home Improvement Loans (Rs 3.8 Crores vs about Rs 12.7 crores
originally estimated), slum improvement and community facility works
(pre-schools, and medicare centers).
58.       Collections of plot charges were poor up to about a year before the
closing of MUDP II. Charges that were a few percent of even the lowest slum
household income were certainly affordable. The problem traced to lack of
political and administrative support for an adequate collections effort.
59.       This was demonstrated when improvements in collections to greater
than 702 of demand were insisted on by IDA as a condition of negotiation of
TNUDP (in 4/88). That was achieved by the Slum Clearance Board and maintained
through 1989, believing, as in sites and services, the prevailing view that
charges cannot be collected from low income people.
60.       The Slum Improvement Program undoubtedly improved the environment
and regularized tenure in once-squatter-slum areas for about 200,000 poor



-15-
people - more than projected in the SAR. The results of tenure were also
positive in the sense that many families tore down their old, thatched
structures and replaced them with permanent brick or even reinforced-concrete
structures. Water supply and sanitation standards improved with the Slum
Improvement Program, although the Public Convenience (PC) sanitation solution
is unsatisfactory and remains to be substituted by a better one. Market
values of tenured land in the Slum Improvement Program areas rose sharply
compared to pre-project values.
61.       On the negative side, there is evidence that particularly on larger
plots, where there were rented houses, a significant proportion of original
mostly-low income inhabitants were evicted by original squatter occupiers of
plots (many of whom were also low income). The original occupiers were
enriched by the enhancement of values on newly-tenured service plots at the
expense of their evicted tenants, who presumably were left worse off than
before the program was implemented. An equitable policy remains to be evolved
regarding the disposition of larger plots under future Slum Improvement in the
Tamil Nadu Urban Project.
62.       It is doubtful that the above problems could have been avoided.
Most of the problems that emerged fall into the 'learning by doing" category.
With hindsight it might have been anticipated that these problems would arise
from the weak backing for some aspects of the Slum Improvement program.
The problems mentioned above were also imbedded in the administrative culture
of the Slum Clearance Board, which is construction, not service-oriented. It
is unlikely that they could have been anticipated during project preparation.
Requiring the CD Wing to be attached at a higher level in the TNSCB management
might have improved the Home Improvement Loan program. But, the problems the
Community Development Wing would face as a section of the Slum Clearance Board
were also not anticipated during project preparation.
63.       Storm Drains.  The arterial storm drains construction program under
the Public Works Department's responsibility, dragged on through the whole
period of MUDP II and was obstructed chiefly by problems of land acquisition
and difficulties in ousting relatively small numbers of squatters on the
drains alignments. At the begisming of 1989, some drains were still
incomplete because a few squatters obstructed the acquisition of the right of
way.
64.       A feeder storm drains program was implemented relatively rapidly by
the Madras Corporation. But supervision missions observed that soon after
completion, these were already functioning inefficiently due to lack of Madras
Corporation maintenance.
65.       Because of delays, there were substantial cost over-runs of about
802 in the Public Work Department's storm drainage projects, originally
estimated to cost about Rs 200 lakhs.
66.       Part of the system is providing improved drainage to MUDP slum and
sites and services areas and city sub-areas which flooded during the monsoon.
The whole system funded under the project was not yet operational in 1989 due



-  5-
to the land acquisition and encroachment problems mentioned above. Were it
not for the obstruction caused by a few families, possibly during monsoon
rains several years ago, flooding experienced in some areas of the city by
more than 20,000 families could have been reduced. Eventually the scheme will
deliver its benefits. but because of delays and as yet unresolved maintenance
problems, implementation cannot be deemed a success.
67.       Municipal Services and Maintenance.  With project funds, the Madras
Corporation purchased solid waste management equipment, hydraulic ladders to
service electric lights, constructed a pilot solid waste transfer station,
installed 100 water pumps and wells at public conveniences, and carried out
with technical assistance, studies of long-term strategies for solid waste
collection, disposal and maintenance of municipal services and municipal
accounting and management information systems. All of the procurement was
fraught with delays and supervision missions frequently found that there was
inadequate justification for the Madras Corporation's project proposals. The
construction and design of the pilot transfer station was weak. Little or no
practical action followed upon the recommendations in consultant studies of
solid waste systems and maintenance. Little long terca benefit to maintenance
and services appears to have been obtained from the project's support for the
Madras Corporation. Hot-ever, a basis for improvements was created in the
conversion of MKC accounts from a cash to a cor.aercial system and the
computerization of property tax records.
68.       Both the Madras Corporation and the Madras Metropolitan Water Supply
and Santitation Board (Metrowater) balked however, at taking over the
operation and maintenance of project facilities because of lack of funds,
disagreements over engineering standards - and in the case of Metrowater -
project areas being outside their existing operational area.
69.       To the extent that the Madras Corporation's problems were financial,
IDA might have insisted on stronger state government commitments to enhance
the resources of the Madras Corporation. Advance planning and agreement with
municipalities on engineering and planning standards could have been built
into the implementation program more specifically--as has been done in the
Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project. The failure to improve the services and
maintenance programs of the Madras Corporation is linked to its unresolved
financial and managerial weakness and probably could not have been avoided.
70.       The Madras Corporation adhered to the financial covenants of MUDP
II. But it was constantly short of funds for maintenance and services and
therefore reluctant to take over these responsibilities in MUDP schemes. The
Urban Surcharge on State Sales Tax in Madras generated more than Rs 10 Crores
revenue/year when it was introduced and subsequetty revenues followed the
steady growth in sales tax revenues. The state government released only about
2-3 Crores per year of urban surcharge on state sales tax revenues to the
Madras Corporation and its potential was of limited use to the Corporation.
There was no movement during MUDP II on property revaluation or tax increases
in the Corporation. The neighboring jurisdictions in Madras benefited from
the state government allowing about a 100t increase in the property tax in
1988, which had been frozen since 1976.



-17-
71.       On the whole, the municipal component of MUDP II was successful in
improving accounting and management information systems. There were also
improvements in MKC tax collections. However, a significant reform in
municipal maintenance and services waits upon the attempts to improve
municipalities finance, management and services under the Tamil Nadu Urban
Development Project.
72.       Buses.   Procurement of about 550 busses was projected in the SAR.
The actual number of busses procured was 885, following the amendment of the
project description. PTC also efficiently implemented the terminals and
depots originally anticipated. Expenditures on the PTC component were 75?
higher than estimated at appraisal (Rs 12.6 Crores). Taking into account the
extension of the project period and higher-than-anticipated inflation rates,
unit costs were &bout the same as forecast in the SAR.
73.       The bus company's financial performance was disastrous in the early
19808, when the operating ratio soared to about 120 compared to a target of
95. This, and the state government's prolonged reluctance to revise fares,
led to the suspension of disbursements for one year in June 1984 on all of
MUDP II.   Since the Credit had fully disbursed against 550 busses in the
project description and most other PTC works and equipment in the project
description, it was not possible for IDA to suspend only on the PTC component.
Lacking funds for bus procurement. the bus company'z service standards fell.
Overcrowding resulted. However, when fares were increased, PTC's financial
fortunes reversed positively and PTC was able to afford the extra busses
procured from MUDP II, while meeting agreed profitability and cash generation
targets. But it could not make up for the cash losses of earlier years and
restore service standards to desirable levels. By 1988, however, with fare
revision once more too-long delayed, PTC was struggling to achieve the cash
generation envisaged under MUDP II (and indeed TNUDP).   In retrospect, it
would have been better to limit procurement to annual requirements (200-250
buses) instead of agreeing upon a 550 bus procurement contract, while keeping
the operating performance and fare revision prospects under close observation.
74.       Despite its up and downs, the component was quite successful.
Because of the procurement of busses under the project, PTC was at least able
to run an efficient, relatively low cost operation and maintain its service
level, albeit at spartan levels involving over-crowding in the peak periods.
PTC's productivity also Improved and the management introduced innovations
(express services) which helped to sustain the financial performance.
75.       Two major long-run problems remained unresolved.  First there is the
fare revision process. Late in MUDP II, in 1987, the state government created
an Expert Bus Fare Committee. The intention agreed with IDA was to provide an
expert forum for regularly rationalizing the process by which bus fare
revisions and the performance obligations of the bus company were decided. So
far this arrangement has been ineffectual. As an advisory body the Committee
has had little influence. By June 1989, the state government had even failed
to extend the term of the Committee. The bus company's financial and
operating fortunes were once again unnecessarily hostage to the political



-18-
process. With hindsight, it could be argued that the Committee should have
been established as a Statutory Committee with powers to establish fares,
which could only be over-ridden by GTN in extra-ordinary circumstances.
76.       Second, there were wages.  With c relatively young staff, wage
arrangements which guarantee cost of living increases and also regular wage
increases based on longevity in the company, the Bus Company's wage bill has
risen inexorably. Once about 252 of total costs, wages in 1989 were over 502
of total costs. The annual increase in the wage bill outweighs any cost
reductions which the management may make in productivity.
77.       MMDA Regional Investment Planning, Coordination and Performance
Evaluation. There was no significant improvement in the Madras Metropolitan
Development Authority's overall urban management activities. The SAR
anticipated over-optimistically that as the Development Authority's capacity
for project coordination had been "run-in* during MUDP I, it would concentrate
more effectively on broader regional planning and evaluation. However, it
emerged that the scope for thius is mainly a function of the level of
government interest in urban problem-, policies and objectives.  Focused more
on rural than urban problems, the gov:enment's level of interest in the
objectives of MUDP II was limited.  F.ore could have been done to strengthen
the Development Authority's overall u-han management function, and the Tamil
Nadu Urban Project sought to effect im}.rovements. But it must be recognized
that the scope is limited by the socio-political interest in the problems and
prospects of urban development at any point in time.
Project Imracts
78.       Sectoral Policy.  The project had a major positive impact on
attitudes to sites and services and slum improvement, confirming that the
approach could be successfully used to tackle the shelter problem. The
project success in the public sector also opened the way for experiments in
private sites and services which were incorporated as a Guided Development
component in the later Tamil Nadu Urban Project.
79.       Human Resources Development.  Over the course of the MUDP, a core of
seasoned and experienced staff were developed in the implementing agencies.
There is a sufficient critical mass to provide a basis for the state-wide
project being implemented under TNUDP.
80.       Physical Environment.  The project undoubtedly improved the overall
environment in sites and services and slum areas and established that sites
and serviceb were not "planned slums" as had been argued a decade earlier.
81.       Poverty and Income Distribution.  A manor objective of the shelter
program was achieved: more than 70? of the beneficiaries of the shelter
program are in the income group at or below the poverty level. Some selling
c-t to higher income groups and infiltration of higher income groups into the
plots reserved for lower income groups has occurred. On the whole, the
physical design and location planning approaches of the project seemed to have
worked effectively. Most project beneficiaries experienced substantial



-19-
increases in their real income and wealth as is evident from the amount of
investment that took place in project areas and the prices quoted for plots in
scheme areas.
82.       Institutional.  Although some of the project agencies proved
stubbornly resistant to improvement, others steadily improved and reached
levels of performance toward the end of MUDP II which sharply and positively
contrasted with the performance at the outset.
Project Sustainability and Rates of Return
83.       Sites and Services and Slum Improvement.  The economic rates of
return on the sites and services and slum improvement component were easily
achieved, since unit costs of investment in these components were not much
greater, or less than ( in slum improvement) forecast, while market rents for
serviced land in these components grew at a proportionately greater rate than
costs in a sellers scarcity market. Market rents, used as a proxy for
benefits for sites similar to those in sites and services and slum
improvement, have steadily grown at a higher rate than construction and other
costs. Reflecting the shortage of affordable serviced land in Madras, a high
rate of return in sites and services (more than 15ZIyear) is likely to be
maintained. In the long run, were the growth in the Madras economy to slow
down, particularly because of shortages in essential services like water and
electricity, rents and rates of return on shelter investments would decline.
Severe water shortages in the past decade appear to have as yet made no
perceptible impact on land values.
84.       Roads.  On main arteries such as the MUDP II Inner Ring Road and the
improved Madras-Tiruvellor High Road, the growth in vehicular traffic is
generally greater than the growth in population. On sections of the Inner
Ring Road built (under MUDP I) several years ago, traffic growth is greater
than earlier projections and road capacity is being expanded under the Tamil
Nadu Urban project. It may be expected that the same trend will be followed
on the MUDP II roads and the economic rate of return on these roads is likely
to be maintained.
85.       Buses.  Recent projections for the bus component in the Tamil Nadu
Urban project indicate that rates of return projected under MUDP II are being
realized and are likely to be maintained in the middle run.
86.       Risks effecting the long run economic rate of return in the bus
component are connected more with costs than uncertainties in benefits.
Despite successful efforts to reduce its operating costs, the bus company has
been unable to come to grips so far with labor costs. Rising steadily at a
rate greater than all other costs and fares, labor costs are a persistent
threat to the financial and economic rate of return on the bus component.
Were labor costs estimated in a falling economy at the opportunity cost of
labor, it is likely ti t the forecast rates of return in the bus component
would not continue to be realized.



-20-
87.       The bus company needs both to reduce the manning ratio (per bus in
service) and to revise its wage contract to introduce an element of merit in
the structure and reduce the automatic increases in wages based on seniority.
This is unlikely to happen unless there is a strong national lead of the same
sort which the state also pursues. Thus there are relatively high long run
risks to the financial and economic rate of return in the PTC bus component.
Bank Performance
88.       Overall, IDA performance on the project appears to have been good.
However, it was difficult to supervise certain aspects of the project with the
IDA budget and the state government management arrangements and information
systems available. These were: the small scale business component; the
education, health and nutrition programs being implemented in project-funded
facilities; and the Home Tiprovement Loan component in slum improvement.  More
input by IDA engineering staff would have contributed to maintaining a higher
standard of civil works implementation and improvements in the technology and
standards being applied in sanitation in particular.
89.       Because contract sizes were generally quite small, a substantial
proportion of contracts fell below the threshold for formal procurement
review. The resulting burden of procurement review on supervision staff was
lighter than in similar projects of more recent date.
90.       At the mid point of project implementation, a substantial amount of
staff time was spent on issues connected with the lack of PTC fare revisions
and the management of a suspension of disbursements, following which, on GOI's
request, MUDP II was not supervised for a year.  Although suspending was an
unpleasant and risky necessity, its outcome was successful in that fares were
revised, PTC's financial performance improved greatly and MUDP II as a whole
experienced a strong finish. On the other hand, supervision of the PTC
component normally was not time consuming because of PTC management's
capability. In the later stages of 4UDP II also, a medium-term PTC financial
and operating plan, prepared in the form of a computer model, was available.
This further simplified the task of supervising the bus component.
91.       There was sustained and beneficial continuity in the IDA's
supervision of the project, which from identification through appraisal and
completion was the responsibility of the same project officer.
Borrower's Performance
92.       On the whole, the performance of the main MUDP II implementing and
coordinating agencies at the project implementation level was commendable. As
noted earlier, there were established factors in the Tamil Nadu administrative
arrangements which assured a relatively high level of continuity of technical
staff in the coordinating agency, the Development Authority, and the
implementing agencies. For monitoring project implementation, the Development
Authority evolved a strong project performance monitoring and evaluation
system. This was more effective for the shelter than for the transport



-21-
components, possibly because the later came under the responsibility of a
different state government department than the Development Authority. One of
the noteworthy features of the state government's performance was its capacity
to react to problems and identify and successfully implement improvements in
implementation arrangements.
93.       Examples of the above were improvements in:
(a) the process for scrutinizing applications and allotting sites and
services plots;
(b) provisions for project audits;
(c) sites and service construction management through increases in
supervisory staff;
(d) the collections of slum improvement charges, and;
(e) Housing Board management by creation of a managing director post in
the Board.
94.       It proved persistently difficult, however,  to maintain state
government continuity on the 'big ticket' program initiatives supported by the
project--for example, the pursuit of the city shelter strategies supported by
the project. This was recognized by key state government project
administrators. On the basis of the problems and experience in MUDP II, the
state government created a high level Empowered Committee for the Tamil Nadu
Urban Developement Project.
IDA/Borrower Relationship
95.       A strong and collegial relationship was maintained in the project
between IDA, GTN and GOI, despite the inevitable strains which resulted from
the suspension of disbursements.
96.       On the whole, the relatively successful history of the project
demonstrates the advantages of clarity of purpose, persistently pursued in an
atmosphere of tolerance and adequate mutual commitment by a relatively
continuous group.
Consulting Services
97.         Consultants, most'y of local origin, were employed on a variety of
activities under the project. The performance was mixed. In some cases the
work was of high quality and the operational outcome was positive. Examples
are the preparation of financial and operating plans for the bus company, the
Housing Board and municipalities (which laid the base for the Municipal Urban
Development Fund under TNUDP), the commercialization of the accounts of the
Housing Board and the Corporation and the preparation of traffic and transport
feasibility studies. Foreign consultants implemented an excellent route
rationalization computer-based study for PTC, unfortunately with little



-22-
apparent benefit to PTC operations, or transfer of procedures. This was
partly because there was inadequate computing capacity in Madras and the
analysis had to be completed outside of India and partly because of the
unavoidable inaccessibility of the consultants once the study was completed.
Contractors
98.         Contractors performance on the numerous small civil works
contracts was, however, mediocre. This was as much a reflection of the
weaknesses of bid document provisions and agencies' provisions for managing
implementation as it was of the capacity of the contractors. As the bid
documents and management of construction by agencies improved in the later
stages of MUDP II, so did the contractors performance. Their improved
performance may also have been a function of the increasing size of contract
and the capability of somewhat larger contractors to deliver contracts on
schedule.
Project Documentation and Data
99.         The MUDP II legal agreements posed no particular problems and were
realistic. However, as noted above, it might have been better to have
included understandings at negotiations to implement slum improvement on
private land. In retrospect, it might also have been better to have built a
stronger basis, confirmed in a stronger covenant, to have committed the
Housing Board to implementing all its programs in the form of the IDA-funded
sites and services model. The SAR provided a reasonable framework for
implementing the project and the data required for preparing the PCR was
available, at least for the main components. The appraisal cost estimating
procedures could have been made more transparent and structured with a view to
using them effectively during implementation to re-forecast project costs and
disbursements. The project management information system within most agencies
and as integrated by the Development Authority, was adequate at the broad
component level. Weak areas were: reporting on broader shelter objectives;
the agencies' contract information system; and project implementation
scheduling.   Major improvements, catalyzed by the wide-spread availability of
micro-computers, were being introduced in all these areas in the waning days
of MUDP II.
Evaluation Summary and Lessons of Experience
100.      The project was appraised at a time when the IDA-supported shelter
approaches of MUDP I were regarded as successful and there was also a
heightened awareness of the magnitude of the slum problem and the need for
more effective shelter supply programs. On balance, the financial and
physical implementation of all the project components experienced ups and
downs, the most noteworthy of which was the suspension of disbursements
because of prolonged delays in bus fare revisions. But in the end all
components were implemented successfully and delivered, or would soon deliver,
the expected benefits - with the possible exception of the municipal services
and maintenance component. The city shelter supply strategy approach, newly
incorporated in MUDP II, was not pursued successfully because of unanticipated



-23-
problems with land acquisition and sluggish construction management and, it
must be said, a lack of sufficient interest and attention. Mirroring this,
and dissapointingly, there was no significant improvement in the overall
management of urban investments and programs by MMDA, which lacked the
essential political support and interest required to make a go of this
responsibility.
101.      The main lessons of the project were:
(a) Bus Fare Revisions. 'DA might have focused more attention upon
improvements in the process for fare revision. The existing process
concentrated fare revision decisions with GTN and a Transport
Commission, neither of which had adequate technical capacity for
weighing the issues. In the final stage of MUDP II, GTN created a
Bus Expert Fare Committee. However, it has only advisory powers and
lacks statutory authority and the fare revision process has not yet
been rationalized and improved.
(b) Public Shelter Programs. Once it is accepted that Bank-supported
projects have passed beyond the demonstration stage and that the
Bank's strategy is to support more effective urban programs as a
whole, it is clear that in Bank-supported urban shelter programs,
the whole effort of public shelter agencies should be directed
towards meeting massive city shelter needs with the limited
resources available. Future projects should not contain a
Bank-funded shelter component with acceptable objectives implemented
by a public agency, while contrary objectives are being pursued by
the same agency with its own funds.
(c) Private Shelter Supply. It is also evident that the public sector,
no matter how efficient, cannot by itself meet the shelter needs of
even the lower income population in fast-growing cities.
Constraints on management capacity, financial resources and land
availability dictate that the private sector must be enlisted in the
interests of enhancing the supply of affordable serviced land,
particularly to lower income groups.
(d) Municipal Maintenance and Services. Municipalities own, operate and
maintain many of the facilities provided in shelter schemes. Long
run environmental improvements in shelter schemes depend on their
capability. Yet municipalities are generally weak, their function in
the urban development system is undetermined and their problems are
systemic. Future projects should address the whole system of
municipal administration and finance in a state and avoid piecemeal
financing of projects in individual municipalities.
(e) Planning and Coordination of Urban Development. The record shows
that Bank projects allocate high priority to strengthening urban
management and using resources more equitably and efficiently. The
experience is that the aim has been difficult to achieve.
Nevertheless, future projects must continue to strive to identify



-24-
and support hardy and durable institutional arrangements for urban
planning, that are more closely linked to cultural and political
interests and reality.
(f) Performance Monitoring. Experience has shown that project
performance monitoring and implementation can be strengthened and
made more efficient by closer prograsming of implementing agencies'
financial and operating programs.



- 25 -
INDIA
MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT It
PROJECT COMPLETION REOT
PART II BORROW'S PERSPECTIVE



- 26 -
PROJET CROPLTO
(P.C. R )
for
LMDRAS URiDAN DEVELOPEMENT. PROJECT - JLI
cxswgzed bAL
P ,M.Dviiano9
MMDA.



- 27 -
BALKGROUNIls
India is primarily an agricultural country with
about 80% of Its people living in rural areaso The total
urban population was estimated at 159 million in mid 1981.
Due to large migration the urban population has oben growing
at higher annusi r;eo (3*3%) than the general population(2.2%).
Nearly 4.3 million per year are being added to uzoan ases
creating demand for shelter, infrastructure services and
employment. About 50% of urban population is concentrated
in more than 135 medium sized cities with population between
1000ooo and 1,000,000, According to IDA estastee, the absolute
urban poverty level income was about be57/capita/month In 191'
In various Indian states. About 47% of Urban households had
Income below this level.
Tamil Nedu sth a population in 1988 of about 50
million, growing at Mabout 2% per annum ia the third most
denaely populated stats after Kerala and West Bengal and the
most urbanised state in IndiS.
The net dewestic product (h.10634 cr. 1984/85)
which was fifth highest in India in 1976/77, sliped to 7th
sank in 1981/82. Real per capita income also practically
stagnated from 1971-81, putting Tamil Nadu among poorest states.
The madras  estropolitan Area had 1981 metropolitan
popula.ion of about 4.57 million of which 69% were in Madras
City* About one third of Statels Urban Population and 10% of O*M
Stats's population live in the MtA which covers an area of
about 1170 km0. From 1961-71 it hes the highest annual populstion
growth rate of all major metropoaitan contres in Indin, due



- 28 -
largely to migration from poot stagnant rural areas. In 1976/77 total
per capita public investment in the M.lA was about Fb*O while that of
the State was eS5o However annual public investmer.t in the MMA are
currently only about one-third of the State-Wide average.
The main objective of MUDP It was to further develop and
expand low cost solutions to Urban problems in Madras initiated in
MUIDP I particularly in the shelter sector. The project was also
intended to support the continued re-orientation of shelter and
infrastructure investments and progremmes in iMAA making them mor8
responsibato the urban poore
SITES AND SERVICES                          Agenciess TNHB
TIIC
Construction of serviced residential plots core housing
and community facilities and provision of shelter loans for about
18264 primarily low income households and services lands, sheds and
machinery loans for industrial and commercial use at two sites,
covering a total area of 251,83 ha,
The cost of the project at appraisal bo*19eO1 crores
has been revised to Rs28.8 croreNs



- 29 
ACH1IEVNENT
~~~~~xten    sasa                             >"1  tEQ1
,ln    Hnit  Las
(R.in million)
1. Mogappaiz (Cast)               74.13       5062    3418      U1.14 (82.14)
20 riogappaix (West)              73M00       5555    3930      05.06
3, Hadusavoyal                   26.70        2048    1344      33.00
4, manali.I                       40.00       2947    1989      47,39
5* 1anali-IZ                      38.00       2652    2058    39.49
Total      251.83       16264   12739    281.90
IAM- Wm!R
Scheme                           Trgetd  WMt           Agctusi Late
.9A.=           ~~~of ScOACoietio
i. Mogappasi  (Cast)             Dace1984              June 1968
2.  togappair (West)            Dec.1914               Sept'1988
3. Madutrvoyal                  Dec.1984               June 1988
Oxigiall schedule
4, Manali Phase I                Dept. 1986            Septd619860
5. fianali Phgas 28              Sept.1987             Septe1988**
* Allotments over*
4* Advertisement to be rleaesed after the decision taken on Pricing.
It could be sen from the table# that about 18300 plots
have been developed in 5 sitse in an extent of 251,83 ho. at a cCOt
of b.e28.0 crazes.
The main problems encounterd wave
1) Land Acquisition



- 30 -
2) multi-sector La-ordination
3) Procedu:el delays
4) Taking over of assets was islayed due to
the projects being out of metrowatar*s
operational juxisdictiono
SNaLL S6ALE BUSINE2SS
Under small scale uusiness indust;ial shads were
proposed in two places only, as indicated belows
Prooosed       met
I4ogappair (E)              42             25
,4ogappair (W)              80             25
122            50
In the smalL scale business the tolowing wers the
problem encountered viz.
1l  Lack of unterprenership
20 Da1Sy ln starting of units due to non-
availability of electzricitye
The original coat of appraisal was 0h4T? lakhs   The
d.oe was restricted to h,380 lakhe for the physical targets
psogramed before the close of credite
IF     FgIL
The taxgets progamme befts  the close of credit was
fully achieved by 30.9l88 and R,.380 lakhs has been incurred
under this sub-component as per schedule,



- 31 -
11. SLUMA    UMENTA                           Agencises  TNS1;
PWD
Improvements to on and oa site infzsetructure
provision of land twnure home tImprovement loans and community
facilities for 50000 alum households plus home Improvement loans
for house holds In sluespa Improved under MUDP I at the cost of
1625.9 croreewhich subsequently revised Into Ib.21.1 crOzea.
NUDP- I   No,of    House  frcilitisa        L.C.So   HeIeL  Amount :Dls
slums    holds   provided        Execu-  bonea  sanc-    bursed
Improved bane.                    td.      fici-  tioned
fitted                           aries    WL lakhe
50000       221   49.755  Roed,povementO
"HNG                        drainage,   I
Water supply, 0
sewerage     I
street       I   23,471 169925  504.726  304.160
light. etc*  0
10000                                    U
HH          29   10,523    -do=         D
_ ca   e <a a -      - _ a a am   a ab _  a a        o a a _m      a      a _
The completion date as per appraisal was DegO1984 and the
actual completion was June 1988.
lo It has been brought out that a nooof families who are
given title, after confiment, sell their plots to some others and
again settle n some othor slum.
2. the MLiDV-tX d.volopmento reveals that, the DonfticlAa
ties do not like to have comunity Pe.C  Unit*  Instesd0 they need



- 32 -
andividual ALIAV latrine which costs Ri. 1450/- (at 19189). This
must be taken for consideration* The bsnsficia*ive do not iind
paying for this.
3. HIL has not picked up because
a) Inadequate income for payment  of instalment,
b) Role of NIL in shelter improvement process
is limited.
c) 6'enrasl belief of house holds is that the
loan will be written off over the time.
4.      SSAINT&NC  Of &SSETSp
Corporation of Madras is reluctant to take over the lower
standard aaseto, since it will involve a higher maintenance
expenditure.
-          tTERIAL RAIS,                    Agenegs PWD
Under MUDP II S arterial drains were taken up for
improvement. They ares
S1.                                  sdmn.       Tech.         Expenditure
No.                                 Sanction    Sanction
a aa    aa    a-    --- ao_         a    _      Q   _ 0 0  w a -  _ _ -   - - - - -
1 m Nambalam Nandanam Drain             _    R;,79,80             10.361
(lakh.)
2.  Seligramem Drain
3. Dejunct Viugambakkam                 a  |e,44*962              30.841
drain                                     (lakhs)
4. Arumobakka,n Drain ,
4    A k D96.801    Ri.216.90       167.261
5. VirugambAkkam Drain                         (lakhe)
_ C. a _. a _, _ a   _ a a a a a    a a a a a a a a a a   _ a a a a a a a



- 33 -
These drains are to collect the storm water from the
surrounding areas to: disposal thus preventing tlooding.
Work are pending in the some stretches of the 4rumbakkam -
Virugembakkam drain and mambalam - Nandanam drain due to land
acquisition proble.. so
1e Court stays
2. Land Acquisition problems*
3. Dense settlement pattern,
uO I8UMegBla                                       Agenciae s PTC
Provision of 885 buses and depot Impro%oente for PTC9
construction of 6 kuas of IRR and general improvement of 14 kms. of
Madras Thiruvallux Road.
ACHIELEMENTs
l. Construction of IRR from 1107.km to 17.5. km,
2. Improvement to MTH Road.
3, Procurement of 555 buses e 300 buses + 30 buss.e
The IRR is now available for GST RoAd (0/0 k,m) to sTUn Road
(17/5 kme) the original cost was Rs.532.10 lakh, and cost at completion
was iz.630.66 lakhso, Bues have been procured in full. More over 330
buses over and above 555 bUwes have been procured,
TIME FRAM:
The time for completion as per appraisal for Road projects
wa March 1984, and the actual completion is Septo88e The time for
completion as per Appxaissl for Bug projects wes March 1984 and wee
completed in the soe period it selfe
The orig$nal cost of the bus component was h.1260.40 lakhoo



- 34 -
The cost of completion is fto2285975 lakho.
1l The shifting of a spur line by ICF could not be done In
time because of contractural problaom
2. A email lMm) stretch of the road could not be laid
because of raw water conduits running across the alignment0 Hence
minor bridges had to be constructed in order to make IRR operational
Howeve, diversion have been meae to make IRR operationale,
3e SO>LD WASTh  ANAGC T _AR  dAITNASCE o_ MUNICJ& S                8
Provision of civil works and equipment to tMC " improve
its olad waste management and maintenance of municipal services
end consualtancy services withthe inst.altion of system foufthe
review of organisational, technical and financial aspects of these
service at the cost of Vb.108/- lekhs.
1. Procurement of equipment
2. Construction of I trensfer station and I u*UAh
weigh bridle and I conveyor.
3. 8 vehicle depots.
4. Procurement of 30 numbers of g5rmovers
5. Procurement of 20 numbers of 5/14 HPofi treiller
mounted pumps.
6e Procurment of 3 numbers of Hydrocon type conveyors
To 100 numbers of oubmaxhible pumps
8B 1S Hydralic ladderso
The completion dete as per appraisal was Oct.1983 and the
actual completion is Sop9t.1988



- 35 -
zRaMUL.
1e It was found difficult to procure Some of the Items
es there were ony very few suppliers for such machinery*
20 The procedural formalities in MC were too complicated
and ongdrawn which results in delays.
Ee TCHNIUL ASASITANCE s
Special studies for MJ4DA, PTC# SIDS, TIVHNB TNSCI end NC
to identify priorities end prepare  programmes for msdiu  and long
team investments and for Institutional strengthening end training
particuRarly for MMDA.
The following twelve studies have been conducteds
9. Bank loan for small entreprenures
2. Job demand and training needs
3. Employment generation in MMA
4. Infrastructure level in non-city areas in MMA
S. follow up on modified accounting system for ML
6, Route rationalisatiom study programme
7, Irensportation study
8. Solid Waste management
9g Evaluation of Municipal maintenance services.
10. Property toa study
11* TNHB accounting system Rationalisation  Lonsultency
12. Coupute:tLstion of MC acciunts.
rurthe:g workshops and eeminarswe conducted in India covering
over 1000 perticipantoi
59 people were trained outside Inais.



- 36 -
The t4ue fot complation Go per appraisal wss Sept.'64 and the
actual compLation date is June 1988.



ANNEX
MADRAS URBAN DEYELOPMENT PROJECT-11
IDA LRDIT NO. 1a2 IN
STATgS Of FINANCIAL PROGRESS AnD  REIMBURSEMENT CLAIM AS ON 31212a'88
---~ as rn   rn rn o=c         I .~~ m ininrnCDn ----ob ------ ininrn rn nr                    rn   --
s1o    PoJect Component           Agency         Cost of completion        CUmOeXpz.         Cuu.CIaI,
No*                                              - _       _     _ -   as on                 lodged as
original      Current      31.12.88          an date
1.e             20                   3,             4.,         4bo            5,                6.
_ o _ _  _ w e Om* _ _ _*   o     cm   _  _ o    _   - _- _ C.  - _   _ _ e r _ _  -- _ _ _ _ _  _ g_o  _ _ _ o _ _  _ _ 
A,  Sites and Services             TN11       1900.93        2879.09        2860.21          1096.57
TIIC        477.13         380.00         380.00           120.80
so  Sum Improvement               TNSLIS      2587.30        2110.91        2107.67           838.76
DSV        156.34          90.59          90.59            59.56
DPHL         38.50          10056           7068             4v22
C.  Transport                      DHRW         532.10        638061          603.78          337.08
PTC       1260.40       2204,91         2204.91          1722.70
Dio boMd ;:aste Management           NC         308500        295.25          267.20          154.62
to  Technical Assistance          NMDA         126000         175.00          173.65          170.45
Total        7386.70        8776.97        8695,69          4504.78
__r__ in________nn _ -.**_____i    n.__*_in__*ni_   m  ra        . m  _ r  i n  a   m    a   a  co
To be confirmed by agencis.



ANEU
SECOND tp UARS IRlN DELOPMNENI J.   CEREDI ND.lO2aI-JNj
SAMms of marm  cvewnanta fag~ the ae:ter endgd 3112.9.8
a a a_ a a _ _ a _ _ a a _ a _ a a C a a a a a - a   a  -    a a -- -  a a a - a * - - a a - a O - a a a 
Si0ction     Statue I   OCrginel   Revised    Type 2                           Description of covenants
date        date
l1o          20           3e          4.        So                                      60
a a a a a a a a a a a a a a   a a a a a a a a a aa a a a aaa                                  a a a a   a a
2002       OK                                     2*5      Temil Nadu to employ consultants to Technical
Assistance and Training.
3o02A      Not           04.01.62                  3.8     Tamil Nadu Housing Board to limit its annual
compl6d                                        Investment in Housing as specified
(55% maximum)
3.028     OK             04.01.82                  4.1     Tamil ladu to construct housing to meet physical
standards agreed by IDA.
3.03      OK                                      3.6      Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board to limit Annual
expenditure of slum clearance-cumatenement
progeamem  as specified.
3.04      OK                                      4.6      Sitsa/Servicess Criteria tems and  cunditions
satisfactoty to IuA,
3.05      OK                                       3,1     Tamil Nadu to reccver slum improvement costs and
assess charges eatiteactozy to IDA.
e .2oa



s2s
Uuia         2.           3.          4.           58                                6.
3,06a       Ox                                    3.6    Rewvnue ?Xom AgXeSUen6ts  eaopat A to bO depositga in
Sites and bervicee nevolving fund.
3.06a       OK                                    3.8    hevenue from agreements report i to be deposited in
slum Improvement Revolving Fund.
3.06        OK upto fy                           6.2    Audit accounts/reports due to IDA not latter than
196 6alT &                                  10 months after and each fiscal year.
ty '87-'860
309A.       Not complied                         3.5 I   PTCts  current assets the current liabilities rtio
ampthw                                      1to be maintained at 1,5tt1
3.098       OK                                  3.8      PTC's operating costs not be exceed 95% of operating    
coevnueO
3.09L       Ox                                  3.62    No more long-team debt unless real debt service
covezage aomet 1.5 times.
3*10A.     OK 3O6                                       Corporation to Increase Its sevenues as specified
bb atleest 8% annually.
''.30.,



s3a
10         2.            30            4.4            5.                                    6.
a a    a -a a    - a- aa   -    - S- a    --     - - a a       I  - a a at   a   a at  a a    -  a            a a a - a a a a 
3,11G     OK                                       3,6      Unit 3,31e86 Corporationts debt service payments
in any FY not to exceed 20% of revenues,
3010C     OK        12.31 01                       3.8      Corporation to furnish IDA with Corporation's
proposals for Improving property tax collectione
a a    a    a a- -a -- a    -    a    a aa aa aa a    a    a    - a #a a a a a a a a a - a - a a a a a a            
zJ/    OK                  LOVE(tUNT COriPLIED WITH
OKI                  COVENANT COvPLIEDI WITH NOW BUT WAS ttEVISED IN PAST
SOON                 LOMPLIANCE EXPELTED IN A REAb0NABLY SHCRT TIisE
NYUI                 NOT YET DUE
UJLET                PRO.,OSED *OR  DELETION AS NO LONGER RELEVANT
REVS                 NEEDS REVISION IN AGREEMENT WITH BORROWER TO REFLECT CHANGED
CIRCUMSTANCES.
ACT                  NEEDS ISE Of FORMAL REMEDIES TO BFkING ABOUT COMPLIANCE
UNK                  STATUS OF COVENANT UNKNOWN.
2,/  INDICATES TYPE OR COVENANT*



- 41 -
MADRAS URBAN DEV.ELOM9NT PROJECT II
IDA CERDIT NOa1g82-IN
,STATUS OF DIBURSMENTj AS DE 31-82129a8
SDR
Total value of the credit                           32,600oOo.O
Total disbursement as on 31.8.88                    32g018s442e91
Balanc  credit to be availed                           581 557.09
RuPees equivalent of the balance
credit (at the rate of b.18073p
per SDR)                             Ib.108 9920564.30p.
(fb.108992 lakhs).
Claims 6E the pipeline                     RO160.06 lakhs)
(Application No,467-476)e



- 42 -    &TIuKQTA$
t                ,_.  4'- 4*m  _..
nRWWot~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~$T. b_ S(YI ES AR
POWESOIDR
IA                            v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
LEGE  O1ND*R
RX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$T ' *',""^^t""k,kW
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6Yi jX     ,.YU Af
'PEA"bui  rEALA PTomEI
s.~~~~~~~N 06_vlu
MADORAS METROPOLITAN AREA AND THE.     *,
LOCAT1ON OF MAJOR PROJECT COMPONENTS. NO? TO SCALE



- 43 -
INDTA
MADRAS URBAi DEVELOPMENT PROJISCT II
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III  STATISTICAL IOM TION



- 44 -
1. Related Bank Loans or Credits
Credit No.        : 687-IN
title             : Madras Urban Development I Project
Year of ADnroval  : 1977
Pu=pOne           : To develop and promote low-cost solutions of Madras'
problems in the sectors of shelter, employment, water
supply, sewerage and transport, and particularly to make
investments responsive to the needs of the urban poor; to
ensure replicability, by introducing full cost recovery
for key investments for which costs have traditionally
not been fully recovered; and to strengthen metropolitan
planning and capital programming and budgeting.
status            : The credit was closed on December 31, 1982.  Physical
components of the project was completed in June 1984.
Comments          : A Project Performance Audit Report (Report No. 6330 dated
June 30, 1986 is available from the Asia Information
Center.
2. Project Timetable
Planned           Revised           Actual
Identification          June 1978                            June 1978
Preparation Mission     Oct. 15, 1978                        Oct. 15, 1978
Appraisal Mission       Oct. 8, 1979                         Oct. 8, 1979
Credit Negotiations     Nov. 10, 1980                        Nov. 10, 1980
Board Approval          Dec. 16, 1980                        Dec. 16, 1980
Credit Signing          Jan. 14, 1981                        Jan. 14, 1981
Credit Effectiveness    April 14, 1981                       March 2, 1981
Credit Closing          March 31, 1986    March 31, 1988    March 31, 1988
Credit Completion       June 30, 1985     Dec. 31, 1987      Dec. 31, 1987
I



- 45 -
3.  CGrdit Disbursemnts
- (in US$ million)
Actual as %
IDA FY      Quarter Ending           SAR Estimate       Actual   of Estimate
1981        June 1981                    0.3              0.0           0
1982        September 1981               1.1              0.0           0
December 1981                2.6             0.0            0
March 1982                   4.5             0.0            0
June 1982                    6.6             2.57          38
1983        September 1982               9.1              5.59         61
December 1982               11.8             7.76          65
March 1983                  14.8            12.28          82
June 1983                   18.0            12.28          68
1984        September 1983              21.2             12.96         61
December 1983               24.6            13.51          54
March 1984                  28.1            14.08          50
June 1984                   31.5            14.2           45
1985        September 1984              34.9             14.23         40
December 1984               37.7            14.25          37
March 1985                  39.3            14.25          36
June 1985                   40.5            18.33          45
1986        September 1985              41.5             18.73         45
December 1985               42.0            18.76          44
March 1986                  42.0            19.98          47
June 1986                   42.0            21.68          51
1987        September 1986              42.0             22.74         54
December 1986               42.0            25.19          59
March 1987                  42.0            26.87          63
June 1987                   42.0            28.21          67
1988        September 1987              42.0             28.58         68
December 1987               42.0            29.53          70
March 1988                  42.0            33.44          79
June 1988                   42.0            36.57          87
1989        September 1988              42.0             37.61         89
December 1988               42.0            42.00         100
Date of Final Disbursement:  October 3, 1988



- 46 -
4. Project Implementation
Indicators               Appraisal Estimate               Actual (or PCR Estimate)
.......... .......................... ..... ............ ._. . .............................................  ......
SITES AND SERVICES    - Economic rate   return             At least 28%.
estimated at 288.
- Provide affordable shelter         18,300 were provided, of whiel
for 14,900 households.             15,000 occupied in 1989.
- Small-scale business program       About one-half the targetted
to support at least 400,000        number.
jobs and serve about 204 new
and expanding businesses.
- Provide health and nutri-          Target was exceeded
tional services to 52,000
children and about half as
many nursing and expectant
oters.
SLUM IMPR EMT        - Economic rate of return             About 25-30%.
estimated at 13%.
- Bsnefit 50,000 households,         60,000 were benefited, mostly
mostly with incomes below          with incomes below urban
the urban poverty threshold.       poverty threshold.
- Reduce the backlog of              Not achieved; the backlog
households in unserviced           is more than 100 of the
slums to about 10% of the          population.
MRA population by 1991.
TRANSPORT            - Bus component to improve            Additional buses and services
services for the population,       were provided.  Overcrowding
reduce extreme overcrowding        was not reduced due to short-
and provide buses to extend        falls in cash generation.
services into new sites and
services areas.
SOLID WASTE          - Benefit households in hutment       Services are belg provided,
FMNAGEKENT AMD         areas, Including 80,000 mostly      but the standard is
MAINTERANCE            poor households scarcely            inadequate.
servlced by the Madras Corp.
- Improve efficiency and reduce      Not achieved.
costs, thereby benefiting
other households in NMA.



- 47 -
S. groiect Costs and Financing
A. Priojet CoLs
(US$ million)
Items                                     Appraisal Estimate       Actual
Equipment and Materials -ICB                     9.6                13.37
Equipment and Materials - Other                  3.3                 2.88
Civil Works                                     42.7                39.18
Shelter and Home Improvement Loans
and Small Business Loans                     30.8                10.01
Technical Assistance and Training                1.S                 1.49
Totals                                          87.9                66.93
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source      Expenditure Categories                    Planned      Actual
IDA         Equipment and Materials -ICB                8.80        13.37
Equipment and Materials - Other             2.10        1.58
Civil Works                                19.50       21.55
Shelter and Home Improvement Loans
and Small Business Loans                 6.90        4.01
Technical Assistance and Training           1.40         1.49
Unallocated                                 3.3Q         0.00
Subtotal                                   42.00       42.00
DOMESTIC    Subtotal                                   45,90        24.93
TOTAL                                      87.90       66.93



- 43 -
6. Status of Covenants
Project
Agreent                                                                         DaIInw for
Section                  Subject                                                 Complance         Status
2.02    Tamil Nadu to employ consultants for TechaLcal Assistance                                   OK
and Training.
3 02A   Tamil Nadu Rousing Board to lLmit its annual livestment in              Aprll 1, 1982        RC
housing, other than for the economically weaker sections, to
not more than 552 of its total inestment Ln housing  nd plot
developmet ln MM.
3.028   Tamil Nadu 8ousing Board to construct housing under its WA              April 1, 1982       RC
program ln accordance vith physical standards mutually acceptable
to the Association and Tamll Nadu.
3.03    Tamil Nadu Slum Cleariag Board to limLt lts annual expenditure on                            OK
its slum clearanc-cvn-tenemont program during AprlI 1, 1981 to
March 31, 1986 to not more than Re 37,500,000.
3. 04    Samll Nadu to ensure that all torws and condLtiom  Ln respect of the                        OK
sites and sertvices to be developed under Part A of the project shall
be satisfactory to IDA.
3.05    Tamll Nadu to recover slum improvemet costs end assess charges                              OK
satisfactory to DA.
3. 06A   Revenue from Agreements re. Part A of the project to be deposlted                           OK
in Sites and Services Revolvng Fund.
3.06B   Revenue from agreements re. Part B of the project to be deposited                            OK
in Slum Improvement Revolving Fund.
3.08    IMplementing AgencLes to furnish ZDA wlth audlted accounts and                              OK
financLal statements not later than 10 mth  after the end of each
fLseal year.
3.09A   PTC's current assets to current liabilities ratio to be maintained                          OK
at 1.5:1.
3.09B   PIC's operating costs not to exceed 951 of operating revenue.                               RC
3.09C   PTC not to incur a   long-ter debt unless real debt servlce                                 OK
coverage is at least 1.5 times the maiimm  debt service requirements.
3. 10A   Corporation to lncrease lts revenues by at lest 82 annually.                               OK
3.10B   Corporation to ensure that, until March 31, 1986, its debt servLce                          OK
payments ln any fiscal year shall not exceed 202 of Lts revenues.
3.10C   Corporation to furnish IDA vlth CorporatLon's proposals for achieving     Dec. 31, 1981    OK
improvemnts ln collection of property taxes withln its jurisdlction.
OK - Covenant complied with.
NC - Covenant not complied wlth.



- 49 -
7.   Status pi Qoen=an
Ptoject
Secton                  subject                                                 CoiLo1           Statu
2.02    TaSm  Medi to alspiy consultan   for Technical Assistance                                  0R
and Training.
3.02A   Tail meusIbdu tSard to limt its annal inestmnt in                      April 11 1.92   1 C
baouig, other then for the economically waker sections, to
not core than 552 of its total invetmet ia hosing atd plot
developmnt in WA.
3.02B   Tamil Madu Mousing Board to construct housing under Its IOU            Apil 11982          NC
ptroegrtan accordane with physical stndard  wntually accptable
to the Association and Tamil Nadu.
3 03 .0     l Rna ShUM Clearing Doard to limit its eanuel espenditure on                           Ca
Lts alum cloarune-cum2-tenaent program during Aprtl. 1, 1091 to
hatch 31. 1986 to not mme than Is 57,500,000.
3.04    TamLl Nadu to ensure that e11 terms and conditons in respect of the                        cm
sites nd services to be developed under Part A of tho project shall
be satisfactory to 1DA.
3.05    Tamil Meda to recover slum 1zprxowmnt costs and asseos cbarges                             am
satisfactory to SDA.
3.06A   Revenue froe Asreemets re. Part A of the project to bo deposited                           am
in Site* and Servloes Revolviug Fund.
3.063   Revenue frm agreements re. Part 3 of the project to be dopeslted                           OB
in slum Imprv2 oent  evolving Fund.
5.08  AIplementi  Agencies to furnish IDA with audted accounts an                                  am
filal statemnts not later than 10 msnthe after the en of ch
fiscal year.
3.09A   PTC's current assets to current liabilitie  ratio to bo mnintaind                          am
at l.sl.
5.093   PTC's operating costs not to exceed 95 of operating revenue.                              IC
.09C   PTC not to Inur aW  long-ter debt unless real debt servlce                                 cm
coverage is at leat 1.5  lSst the meximm debt serviee requiremets.
3.10A   Corporation to icease its revenues by at leat SX anually.                                  OlR
3.10B   Corporation to ensure tbat, until March 31, 1984, its debt service                         Om
payments n any fiscal  year shall not eoceed 202 of lts revenes.
.1OC   Corporation to furnLsh IDA with Corporation's proposals for achliving    De. 31. 1961   0C
improvements in collectln of property tarce within its JurTidiction.
m * Covensut comlied with.
SC  Covenant not coMlieod with.



- 50 -
7. Use of Bank Resourcs
A.   taf     = CZ
Actual No. of Stafweku
!hzou  pprasa 1    ..........................   47.8
Appraisal throtgh  Doard  4pprwa ................      . .   30.6
Ekuurd A4pproval throubRl  Iffectslvoeoe  *...... ........       0.5
sup.visioa  ...............................  1*LA
Total              ...............................   185.5
a. 114im
go . of         Dae"           Speciausitin       Perfoeco Ratis            types of
Uhnlhlu4ai         marea         = umeldg         JIU           IS Ifiatma a'                         ai
Oct. 1978            5             1s            3M,FAB,NI,AP
atrch 1979           7              12           8C=,A,fllSAP
July 1979            6             15             ICMItA,EO,A?
AVpslal through
Bo&4d kauoval,
Oct. 1979            7             15            20,1EA,llE,AP
March 1980           2             12            IK.1D
Aug. 1960            2              12           awlIA,
may 1981             4              14           EM,FMA,AP                   2
NOv. 1981            5             14            IW,1A,AP                    1
March 1982           1               3                                       1                    0
July 1982            5             16            mU,A,AP                     1                    O,F
Aprll 1983           s              10           8CI,FA                      2                    o,F
Dec. 1983            3             14            WCN1,Ba,AP                  2                    F,0
April 1985           1              8            5CR                         1                    0
Aug. 1985            2             21            =CR,=a                      2                    M
Dec. 1965            1             11            ICR                         2                    S
May 1986             1             12            DCI                         1                    T
Oct. 1964            5             14            zCw,F3,DI                   2                    S
march 1987           5             16            =CI,FNA,=,AP                2                    P
Oct. 1988            2              S            ZCI,A                       2                    0
UI  ECU - Economists VIA aFlancial Analysts XGR - Esiner; AP l  ArchitectPla r
a'I 1 - Problem-fro or ulnr problems 2 - Moderate problems 3 Major Problem
It  F  Fia=l;s 1 a Manageomt; T  Tecl_icalS     P F  tolitIcals 0 - Others



