Dcumentof                FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2911- IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 25, 1980
This doument has a restrided distribudon and may be used by meipients only in the perfonmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 18, 1980)
Rs 1.00          =         Paise 100
US$1.00          =         Rs 7.785431
Rs 1.00          =         US$0.12845
Rs 1,000,000     =         US$128,450
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been fixed against
a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are now floating,
the U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Con-
versions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to
Rs 8.40, which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
DHRW    -    Department of Highways and Rural Works
GOI     -    Government of India
GTN     -    Government of Tamil Nadu
ha2     -    hectare
km      -    square kilometer
MMC     -    Madras Municipal Corporation
MMA     -    Madras Metropolitan Area
MMDA    -    Madras Metropolitan Development Authority
PTC     -    Pallavan Transport Corporation
SIDCO   -    Small Industries Development Corporation
TNHB    -    Tamil Nadu Housing Board
TNSCB   -    Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Programme
WHO     -    World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                    India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:              The Government of Tamil Nadu (GTN)
Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB)
Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB)
Pallavan Transport Corporation (PTC)
Small Industries Development
Corporation (SIDCO)
Madras Municipal Corporation (MMc)
Madras Metropolitan Development
Authority (MMDA)
Amount:                      SDRs 32.6 million (US$42 million on November 11,
1980).
Terms:                       Standard.
Relending Terms:            From GOI to Tamil Nadu:  As part of Central
assistance to State development projects on
terms and conditions applicable at the time.
From GTN to TNSCB, TNHB, MMDA, MMC, DHRW and
other Government Departments: Grants and
direct expenditures.
From GTN to PTC: For bus chassis, loans at
10.5% p.a. interest over 15 years. For other
capital expenditures, loans at 12.5% p.a.
interest over 15 years.
From GTN to SIDCO: Loans at 8.5% p.a. inte-
rest over 10 years.
From GTN to MMC: Loans at 11% p.a. interest
over 20 years with three years' grace.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Description:         The project would support:  (a) the development
of about 15,000 residential and about 200 indus-
trial plots on two sites totalling about 180 ha,
together with construction and machinery loans
and provision of community services; (b) provision
of basic infrastructure and land tenure to about
50,000 slum households and provision of home
improvement loans and grants to about 80,000 slum
households; (c) purchase of about 550 buses and
depot improvements for PTC and construction and
improvement of two roads linking sites and services
areas to employment centers; (d) civil works and
equipment to improve solid waste collection and
infrastructure maintenance in the MMC; and (e)
technical assistance and training for implementing
agencies to build their planning and implementation
capacity.
Estimated Cost:                                                  (US$ Millions)
Local   Foreign   Total
Sites and Services             17.0       1.1      18.1
Slum Improvement               21.8       0.9     22.7
Transport - Roads               3.3       0.9      4.2
Buses              4.3       6.5      10.8
Solid Waste Management
and Infrastructure
Maintenance                   2.6       0.1      2.7
Technical Assistance
and Training                  0.9       0.2      1.1
Design and Supervision          3.2       0.3       3.5
Base Cost                 53.1     10.0      63.1
Physical Contingencies          3.2       0.4       3.6
Price Contingencies            18.1       3.1     21.2
Total Project Cost        74.4     13.5      87.9
Taxes and Duties                3.9       -        3.9
Project Cost Net
of Taxes and Duties      70.5      13.5      84.0
Financing Plan: 1/                                                (US$ Millions)
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                            28.5      13.5     42.0
GTN Loans and Grants           42.0       -       42.0
Total                    70.5      13.5      84.0
1/   Net of taxes and duties.



- 11]l -
Estimated
Disbursements: 1/                              (Us$ Millions)
FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86
Annual        0.3   6.3  11.4  13.5   9.0   1.5
Cumulative   0.3   6.6  18.0  31.5  40.5  42.0
Rate of Return:              22%
Appraisal Report:            No. 2893-IN, dated November 26, 1980.
1/ According to IDA's fiscal year.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE SECOND MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to SDRs 32.6 million
(US$42 million on November 11, 1980) on standard IDA terms, to help
finance a project to provide improved shelter and urban services in the
Madras Metropolitan Area, and to strengthen metropolitan planning and
investment programming and budgeting. The proceeds of the credit would be
channelled to the Government of Tamil Nadu in accordance with the Government
of India's standard terms and arrangements for the financing of State develop-
ment projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2933-IN, dated May 1, 1980), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 14, 1980. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.         India is a large and diverse country with a population of 663 million
(in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$180. Agriculture continues
to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the landless or nearly
landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of existence. The share
of agriculture in GDP at factor cost (measured in 1970/71 prices) has declined
from 59.6% in 1950/51 to 40.7% in 1978/79. The share of industry has increased
over the same period from 14.5% to 22.7%. But industrialization has not been
rapid enough to absorb the growing labor force, nor to bring about the substan-
tial economic transformation that has led to higher productivity and rapid
urbanization in some other developing countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, and is 21% now.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past.  The trend growth rate of
GDP was 3.7% per annum from 1950/51 to 1978/79. Slow growth in agriculture--
2.5% per annum over the same period--has constrained overall growth, not only
because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce for-
eign exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial value-added
has grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and 1978/79, but
this growth has not been as high as in many other countries, nor as high as
1/   Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Second Bombay High Offshore Develop-
ment Project (No. P-2905-IN, dated November 18, 1980).



-2-
required. Gross domestic saving more than doubled from 10% of GDP in 1950/51
to 24% in 1978/79. Similarly, gross domestic investment as a fraction of GDP
rose from 10% in 1950/51 to just over 24% in 1978/79. Foreign savings have
never financed a large portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20%
was reached during the early 1960s; by the end of the 1970s, the proportion
had returned to much lower levels. External assistance has been low both
as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance has
never risen above 3% of GDP.
5.        Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis i. India, which has primarily pursued a
strategy of import substitution. As a tesult, India's share of world trade
has fallen consistently since 1950/51. The volume growth of exports between
1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0% per annum. The volume of growth of
imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of exports. During
the early 1970s India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant
during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically, spurring a relatively rapid period
of export growth through the mid-1970s. For the five years ending in 1976/77
the volume of India's exports grew on average over 10% per annum, demonstrating
that sustained rapid growth was possible. While expanding world markets, par-
ticularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed to this process, adjustments
in trade policies designed to improve the profitability of exports played a
major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 4.7%,
2.8% and 7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a marginally
better growth performance than the long-term trends from 1950/51 to 1975/76.
However, GDP is expected to have declined by about 3% in 1979/80 as a result
of the drought-induced decrease in agricultural production and input con-
straints in other sectors, bringing recent trends back in line with the long-
term picture. Industrial production stagnated in 1979/80, largely due to
shortfalls in the production of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement,
as well as constraints in the provision of infrastructure, notably power and
transportation. As a consequence of these developments, the remarkable price
stability that characterized the Indian economy after 1975 came to an abrupt
end at the close of fiscal year 1978/79. During the spring and summer of
1979 the price index rose sharply, and under the drought conditions, which
were then quite serious, prices failed to make the normal downward adjustment
over the winter. The result was that the level of prices at the end of the
year (1979/80) were almost 20% above the level at the beginning of the year.
Foodgrain prices rose over the summer and autumn of 1979 but in most markets
still prevailed close to the Government's ration prices. Low income groups
in urban areas were assured adequate supplies of grain at stable prices
through the public distribution system. The substantial stocks of foodgrains
also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief employment program
for low income groups in rural areas.
7.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and appro-
priate policies over the past few years are becoming increasingly evident and



-3-
have withstood the test of a severe drought. Agricultural production, which
had increased by 14.5% in 1977/78 and 3.4% in 1978/79 to record levels each
year, declined from 131.4 million tons in 1978/79 to 118-120 million tons in
1979/80. Considering that 1979/80 was a year of acute drought, coming after
two successive years of record output, the foodgrain production achieved--still
the fourth highest in Indian history--provides a measure of the contribution
that expanded irrigation, extension and other inputs have made to Indian
agriculture. Furthermore, the capacity of India's irrigation potential to
counteract drought conditions was not adequately tested because of the diesel
fuel shortages which inhibited the utilization of groundwater resources. Rapid
growth in the use of basic inputs for agricultural production has continued.
Additions to the area under irrigation have almost doubled from 1.3 million
hectares a year during the five-year period ending in 1973/74 to about 2.5
million additional hectares a year during the most recent three-year period.
Fertilizer consumption in 1979/80 exceeded five million nutrient tons, a level
almost 80% higher than in 1975/76.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shifting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the
late 1970s, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken
domestic savings, and the scope for further increases in the latter appears
limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30% in the
household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largely on enhanced
profitability of public sector enterprises. Impending resource scarcity is
even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79 India's
current account deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both to GDP
and to a growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was primarily due to
favorable terms of trade movements and rapidly growing net invisibles which
masked adverse underlying trends in the volume of exports, which has barely
grown since 1976/77. Particularly serious is the evident decline in the
quantum of manufactured nontraditional exports which had contributed much to
the export growth of the first half of the decade. A combination of strong
domestic and slack international demand, exacerbated until recently by
apparent lessened interest in export promotion, have been the major causal
factors.
9.        In contrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and there
have been important changes in composition. As a result of the accumulation
and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports--which had been a
traditional item in the balance of payments--have declined to insignificant
levels since 1977/78. Reflecting the impact of the liberalized import policy
adopted by the Government, non-foodgrain imports increased sharply, so that
their level in 1978/79 was over 80% higher than in 1975/76. In large part,
the liberalization in import policy and increase in imports were limited to
raw materials, basic commodities and intermediate goods; consumer goods
remained banned and capital goods imports were permitted only on a selective
basis. Strong new pressures on the balance of payments have developed during
1979/80. The terms of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of
unexpectedly large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil import
bill to double in 1979/80, accounting for more than 80% of the total estimated
US$2.5 billion increase in imports, and bringing India's total import bill to
about US$11 billion. Petroleum imports as a proportion of total exports now
exceed 44%.



-4-
Development Prospects
10.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless has a
highly diversified structure and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety
of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways,
telecommunications, roads and ports--is extensive compared to many countries,
although there is considerable scope for expansion as well as improvement in
the utilization of existing capacity. India is also well-endowed with human
resources and with institutional infrastructure for development. Finally,
India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of land, water and
minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good
economic policies and sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the
capability for managing these considerable resources to accelerate its long-
term growth.
11.       The new Indian Government installed in January 1980 is in the process
of formulating its policies and programs. A new Plan for the period 1981-86 is
being prepared to replace the Draft Five-Year Plan for 1978-83. At this stage
it is not possible to comment on the new development strategy; however, it is
unlikely that the priorities accorded to agriculture and power will be lessened.
Furthermore, developments in India as well as in the world economy during
1979/80 have brought to the surface urgent issues which will need the attention
of policy-makers, irrespective of the broader context of development strategy
that the new Government may adopt. Among these issues are the following:
(a) the bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints in production
of several basic industrial inputs; (b) the new policy options emerging in
agriculture; (c) the need to substitute less costly energy sources for imported
petroleum; and (d) the anticipated deterioration of the balance of payments in
the near future.
12.       The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that, relative to existing
demands, the past investment program has led to disproportionally low growth
in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport services, steel and
cement. Potential output growth in sectors which have benefitted from large
investments in the recent past may not materialize unless these input bottle-
necks are alleviated. In the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic produc-
tion appears to be clearly justified on grounds of comparative advantage, indi-
cating an a priori case for policies to promote greater investment. All these
are tradeable commodities. Although in 1979/80 they were not imported in
sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages, increased short-term reliance
on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and dislocation in using
industries. In the case of sectors in which there is no option to import--
power and transportation--the planning of capacity expansion becomes even
more crucial. Although there is scope for improvement in the shortrun per-
formance of these sectors, major investments in balancing and modernization
programs as well as new capacity are needed in order to provide adequate and
stable growth in the medium term. The presence of infrastructural constraints
and shortages of basic industrial inputs demonstrates that the expansion of
industrial output leads to competing claims on scarce resources which must
be efficiently allocated among different industries.



13.       The substantial increase in the world price of petroleum in 1979,
together with the expectation that this pattern will not be reversed in the
near future, raises several issues concerning energy prospects for India.
India imports the equivalent of about 60% of its petroleum consumption. In
order to implement its policy of minimizing dependence on foreign oil, the
Government intends to rapidly expand its oil exploration program, to increase
the utilization of its vast coal reserves and to increase the development of
India's considerable hydroelectric potential. However, recent shortages of
coal and power are symptomatic of operational problems reflecting, in part,
past planning and investment decisions which are inhibiting the timely imple-
mentation of India's long-term conversion program. The interdependencies in
the economy currently make petroleum demand a residual which is contingent
upon the operation of many other sectors and which has significant implications
for the balance of payments.
14.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, devel-
opment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining a period
of high growth during the 1980s. India ended the 1979/80 rabi (winter) season
with grain stocks of about 15 million tons, without having imported foodgrains
during the year. This is partly due to the bumper crop of 1978/79, but also
reflects the trends of the last decade which point to a consistent improvement
in foodgrain availability in the economy. In view of the acceleration in the
use of agricultural inputs and the projected fall in the population growth rate,
the long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and demand balances look favorable.
Persistent shortage seems unlikely, and it is probable that a wide range of
policy options will become much more practical as the overriding emphasis on
foodgrains can be somewhat relaxed. These options include a slowly falling
real price of foodgrains to increase the affordability of foodgrains to low-
income families, further rationalization of domestic markets and prices, and
diversification to the production of other higher value crops. This prospect
will involve only a gradual shift in emphasis rather than a dramatic break
with past policies.
15.       Foreign exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situation
is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertainties in the
prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious and rapid
deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects.  Reserves were only
marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a year earlier and, in terms
of import coverage, fell below the 8-month level for the first time since 1977.
A sharp increase in the trade deficit is expected to put far greater pressure
on the reserve level in 1980/81. At best, India's reserves may provide a
cushion for two more years, and even that is conditional on the maintenance
of aid flows and workers' remittances and on moderation in oil price increases.
16.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Progress has
been made and continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the
economy faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Invest-
ments required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable



-6-
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on the framers of India's next Five-Year Plan. The primary
focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjustment policies,
although the aid community can and should play an important role in ensuring
that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign resources.
17.       The annual population growth rate declined from 2.2% in the late
1960s to below 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around
1.6% by the latter half of the 1980s. Despite the declining trend in the rate
of population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement level)
will only be achieved around the year 2020. At that time, the population of
India is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 81% over
the mid-1980 level of 663 million. Family planning has played an important
role in achieving the fertility decline in the past decade, and the extent of
a further decline will be greatly influenced by the continuation of a success-
ful official family planning program. The family planning performance data
for 1978/79 and the first ten months of 1979/80 clearly indicate a recovery
from the sharp decline observed in virtually all major contraceptive methods
during 1977/78. Except for male sterilizations, the number of acceptors for
all contraceptive methods surpassed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the
increase in the total acceptors of IUD and conventional contraceptives was
modest, female sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and
1978/79. Data for the first ten months of 1979/80 confirm a secular upward
trend in overall performance. So far, policy makers have not made major
attempts to accelerate the male sterilization program. Instead, they have
opted for policies that would yield relatively modest but sustainable results
with increased emphasis on reversible methods.
18.       Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and constrained popula-
tion growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special attention to
ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
In addition to marginal holdings of physical assets, the poor are ill-endowed
with human resources, being disproportionately represented among the illiterate,
the malnourished and those having otherwise poor health status. Improvements
in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the over-
all growth of the economy, mainly on productivity increases in agriculture
and nonfarm rural employment, but also on the expansion of employment oppor-
tunities in urban areas. These developments will have to stem largely from
market forces which, however, can be greatly facilitated by appropriate gov-
ernment policies and investment priorities. There is also a role for direct
government actions in faster implementation of land reform (though the scope
for significant reduction in poverty through redistribution is quite limited
in India), in increasing the supply of credit available to small farmers and
rural artisans and finally in broadening the provision of those services
which enhance the human capital of the poor and improve living standards.
Many of the latter are elements of the Minimum Needs Program which has been
an integral part of Indian planning for the past decade. Progress has been
slow but steady in the expansion of primary education, the extension of rural
health facilities and the provision of secure village water supplies. Recent
innovations, including the community health volunteer program and the national



-7-
adult literacy campaign, are encouraging evidence that well-targeted, rela-
tively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 59 loans and 129 development
credits to India totalling US$2,654 million and US$8,402 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,092 million had
been repaid, and US$3,925 million was still undisbursed as of August 31, 1980.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the Bank's current fiscal year through
August 31, 1980,, totalled US$131 million, representing an increase of about
51% over the same periDd last year. Annex II contains a summary statement
of disbursements as of August 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.6
million, of which US$19.1 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$39.4 million, US$29.9 million
represents loans and US$8.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of September 30, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.
The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation
and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in
providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group has been active
in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through its
sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range of
geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises. IDA
financing of industrial raw materials and components for selected priority
sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capacity utilization in
industry. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastructure
development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family planning,
water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil and
natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis. Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program for
the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefit-
ting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sector
also assists India in the more efficient provision of another key input in
the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form an inte-
gral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several years.



- 8 -
Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will focus on
those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on India's
overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in the balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s
by augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because
of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry.
Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most proj-
ects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agricul-
ture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that, whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reason-
ably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for
external support. India should therefore be eligible for supplemental Bank
lending, for which it would be creditworthy. The ratio of India's debt serv-
ice to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is projected to remain
below 20% through 1995/96.  As of August 31, 1980, outstanding loans to India
held by the Bank totaled US$1,338 million, of which US$576 million remained
to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$775 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - TAMIL NADU AND MADRAS
Tamil Nadu
26.       The State of Tamil Nadu is located in southeast 2rn India, facing
the Bay of Bengal. Covering an area of nearly 130,000 km , Tamil Nadu had
a population estimated at 48 million by late 1979, approximately 7.4% of
the total population of India, making it the third most densely populated
State in the country. Estimated average annual per capita income in Tamil



- 9 -
Nadu in 1977/78 was approximately US$120 equivalent (compared to an all-India
mean per capita income of US$135), which placed Tamil Nadu ninth in rank by
per capita income among India's States.
27.       The economy of Tamil Nadu is characterized by a relatively small
agricultural sector, accounting in 1975/76 for about 35% of net State domestic
product, and a relatively large manufacturing sector, accounting for about 22%
of net State domestic product (relative to this sector's 16% contribution to
India's overall GDP). Commerce and services (i.e., trade, storage, banking
and insurance) make up the third largest sector, contributing approximately
19% of the State's income. While Tamil Nadu enjoys the highest rice yield per
hectare in India, is second only to Punjab in fertilizer consumption, and has
exploited three-quarters of its irrigation potential, in recent years there
has been little or no growth in real income from agriculture, which has led
to stagnating rural incomes. The effects of this stagnation are compounded by
significant rural income inequalities. Approximately 50% of the agricultural
labor force in Tamil Nadu is landless and 60% of existing landholdings are less
than one hectare in size. As a result of these and other factors, 59% of the
rural population was estimated to be below the absolute poverty level in
1970/71, compared to an all-India average of 49%.
28.       In contrast to agriculture, manufacturing--principally textiles,
electrical machinery, and transport equipment--grew at a rate of about 5% per
annum in real terms in the 1960s and early 1970s. Similarly, commerce and
services grew at an annual real rate of about 2% in the 1960s, although this
sector has shown little additional growth in the 1970s. The combined effect
of significant rural income inequalities, stagnating rural incomes, and growth
in the largely urban-based manufacturing and service sectors has been an
increase in Tamil Nadu's urban population, due in large part to migration from
rural areas. Tamil Nadu is currently India's most urbanized State, with 32% of
its population in urban areas relative to an all-India figure of 21%. Of the
State's total urban population, nearly one-third resides in the Madras Metro-
politan Area.
The Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA)
29.       The Economy.  The population of the Madras Metropolitan Area, esti-
mated at 4.8 million in 1979, grew at an annual rate of 5% between 1961 and
1971 (the date of the last census), making the MMA the most rapidly growing
large metropolitan center in India. Forty-two percent of this growth was
accounted for by migration from rural areas. Madras, the capital of Tamil
Nadu, is the trade and commerce center of southern India and contains the
fourth largest port in the country. The MMA is also home to a large number of
public and private sector manufacturing enterprises, whose principal products
are machinery, transport equipment, rubber and chemical products. The manufac-
turing sector accounts for approximately 20% of total employment in the MMA and
has generated a substantial increase in employment over the past two decades.
It is estimated that in the early 1960s employment in the organized manufac-
turing sector 1/ (which accounts for approximately 57% of total manufacturing
1/   Enterprises employing 50 workers or more with power or 100 workers or
more without power, or having a capital base of Rs 10 million or more.



- 10 -
employment) grew at a rate of 20% per annum, declining to a rate of approxi-
mately 4.5% per annum between 1965 and 1975. Employment in the non-
manufacturing sector grew at a more modest rate of 2.9% per annum during the
1960s, although the absolute contribution of this sector (which accounts for
about 80% of the work force) to incremental employment was 2.5-3 times greater
than that of the manufacturing sector.
30.       Annual per capita income in the MMA was Rs 855 (approximately
US$114 equivalent) in 1970/71--higher than the then Statewide average of
Rs 624 (US$83), but considerably less than the per capita income of many
other metropolitan areas in India (e.g., Bombay, which had a per capita income
of Rs 1,940 in 1970/71). Approximately 56% of the area's total income is
derived from the tertiary sector and 39% from the secondary sector. In both
tertiary and secondary sectors, small enterprises (less than 10 employees)
play an important role. Indeed, small businesses account for about 43% of
the jobs in Madras. These jobs are typically filled by relatively unskilled
or semi-skilled workers who receive low wages in return for their labor. 1/
Small businesses are, as yet, not well tied into the organized economic
sectors, selling approximately 95% of their goods and services to businesses
like themselves or to individual consumers.
31.       Urban Services.  Madras suffers from serious deficiencies in key
service sectors, particularly water supply and shelter. Investment in public
services has failed to keep pace with the growth in population, estimated at
200,000 persons per annum, and service levels have deteriorated, as demon-
strated by the growing proportion of the population living in poorly serviced
slum settlements. This problem is compounded by the fact that the city's
location and physical characteristics (e.g., flat terrain, distance from major
water sources, soil conditions) lead to high service costs for water supply,
sewerage, and drainage.
32.       The main features of key service sectors in the MMA are as follows.
(a) Shelter. The number of households in unplanned hutment areas in
Madras was estimated at 200,000 in 1976 (about 25% of the total MMA popula-
tion), and was increasing at a rate of about 4.5% per year, 2/ as investment
in shelter fell behind the rate of population growth in the metropolitan area.
In addition to the households living in these unserviced or poorly serviced
hutment areas, about 180,000 low income households live in very poor environ-
mental conditions in a number of older sections of the city, where population
density rises as high as 1,500/ha. Priority needs in the slum areas are
secure tenure, primary infrastructure (water supply, sewerage, drainage, and
access), garbage clearance, and health and social welfare services.
1/   The average monthly wage in small-scale enterprises was Rs 177 (US$22)
in 1979.
2/   Implying an increase of over 10,000 households (including more than
55,000 people) per year by 1980.



- 11 -
(b) Water Supply and Sewerage. The Madras Metropolitan Area has one
of the poorest water supply and sewerage systems of any major urban area in
India. The incidence of intestinal parasitic diseases and of cholera and
typhoid is high, largely due to unsanitary conditions caused by the lack of
an adequate, cafe water supply and waste water disposal system. The average
reliable yield of water for domestic consumption in Madras is a meager 19
litres per capita per day. Of the 4.8 million people in the MMA, only 2
million (42%) are directly connected to the piped water distribution system,
while the remaining 2.8 million depend on public standpipes (serving 1.7
million people at 240 persons/standpipe) and a falling supply of privately-
tapped groundwater (serving the remaining 1.1 million residents of the MMA).
Sewerage services are equally inadequate in Madras. The existing sewerage
system covers about 60% of the area of the MMA, cannot cope with the increas-
ing population density even in some areas that are sewered, and suffers
from poor maintenance. In response to the critical situation in this sector,
the State Government has prepared a water supply and sewerage project which
is now being reviewed for inclusion in our program of upcoming lending opera-
tions in India.
(c) Solid Waste Collection and Disposal. While an estimated 1,000 tons
of refuse are collected per day in central Madras (within the jurisdiction
of the Madras Corporation), it is estimated that an additional 200-300 tons
remain uncollected. Moreover, the existing collection system is operated
inefficiently (e.g., underutilization of refuse vehicles, excessive idle time
involved in collection and loading of refuse, etc.) and refuse is disposed of
without benefit of sanitary landfill methods, thereby foregoing valuable
opportunities for land reclamation.
(d) Transport. The people of Madras rely heavily on walking, bicycling
and buses for transport. Pedestrian and bicycle trips each account for approx-
imately 21% of passenger trips and buses for 42% of passenger trips, with the
remaining trips provided by trains (11%) and cars and motorcycles (5%). While
motor vehicle congestion is not serious in the MMA, inadequate road space for
pedestrians and bicycles in some areas has given rise to traffic hazards for
non-motorized travellers. Moreover, buses, the main mode of vehicular travel
for low income groups, are severely overcrowded on some routes, with up to 140
passengers travelling in buses designed to carry 65 passengers. Finally,
while the road system in Madras is relatively well articulated, the expansion
of the urbanized area has given rise to a need for construction of several new
link roads and has rendered even more important completion of the still
incomplete city bypass, or ring road.
33.       The Government of Tamil Nadu is well aware of these service deficien-
cies and has embarked on an investment program designed to redress existing
inadequacies and respond, to the extent possible, to increasing service needs.
They have been assisted in this effort by UNDP and WHO, who jointly conducted
a study, completed in 1978, which mapped out an immediate action program to
initiate improvements in the water supply and sewerage systems, and by IDA,
1/   The average monthly wage in small-scale enterprises was Rs 177 (US$22)
in 1979.



- 12 -
which is supporting a multi-sectoral urban development program in Madras,
initiated in 1977 under the first Madras Urban Development Project (see
paras 35-36 below).
34.        Urban Administration.  The Madras Metropolitan Area is formally
governed by the Madras Municipal Corporation, four small municipalities, four
townships, and twenty panchayats (local authorities serving predominantly
rural areas). However, the Government of Tamil Nadu (GTN) exerts a dominating
ing influence on the metropolitan area through its power to enact legislation
governing local bodies, through its own sectoral departments and statutory
authorities (e.g., the Tamil Nadu Housing Board, the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance
Board, etc.), which share responsibility for service provision in the MMA, and
through the Madras Metropolitan Development Authority (MMDA), created in 1972
by GTN to plan future development in the MMA, control land use in the region,
and coordinate the work of local and State-level agencies within the metropoli-
tan area. MMDA has had a particularly strong and growing influence in the
recent development of Madras. Initially oriented largely toward physical plan-
ning and land use control, it has moved toward a more comprehensive approach
to urban planning, increasing its emphasis on social and economic development
and its capacity to perform an investment programming and budgeting function
for the MMA. An important element of the first Madras Urban Development Proj-
ect, MMDA would continue to fill a key planning, coordination, and monitoring
role under the proposed project.
Bank Group Activities in the MMA
35.        The Bank Group has supported two projects for the direct benefit of
the city of Madras--Loan 199-IN (US$14 million; approved April 15, 1958) for
development of the Port of Madras and Credit 687-IN (US$24 million; approved
March 8, 1977) for the first Madras Urban Development Project. The objectives
of and experience with the first Madras Urban Development Project are partic-
ularly important as background for discussion of the proposed project. Sched-
uled for completion in 1982/83, the first Madras project sought primarily
to initiate the implementation of replicable low-cost solutions to Madras'
shelter and infrastructure problems and to strengthen investment planning and
financial management in the MMA, with particular focus on MMDA and the Madras
Corporation. The project supports an investment program which includes the
development of three sites and services areas to house 13,500 households, as
well as commercial and industrial enterprises; infrastructure and service
improvements for 30,000 slum households; priority rehabilitation works for
city-wide water supply and sewerage systems; transport improvements, focusing
on expanded pedestrian and bicycle facilities,.elimination of bottlenecks in
the road network, strengthened traffic engineering, and expansion of the city's
bus fleet; and technical assistance to strengthen metropolitan planning and
capital budgeting.
36.        Implementation experience under the first project has been generally
good. The physical and institutional feasibility and social acceptability
have been demonstrated for the sites and services and slum improvement programs,



- 13 -
which represented new approaches to urban service provision in the MMA. 1/
While delays have taken place in the physical implementation of the sites
and services schemes, largely due to land acquisition problems and contract
provisions, these problems have now been resolved and project execution has
resumed an adequate pace. Similarly, initial institutional hindrances to the
granting of title to slum dwellers and sites and services residents have been
addressed, clearing the way for settlement of the sites and services areas and
provision of secure tenure to thousands of slum dwellers. By March 1980, all
legal and administrative procedures had been completed for the settlement of
2,200 households on the first of the developed sites and services areas, and
by November 1980, over 800 households had already settled in the areas. The
order sanctioning passage of land tenure to residents of improved slums, which
was issued by the former State Government, was given final reconfirmation by
the newly-elected Government in August 1980. By November 1980, over 2,000
households had concluded lease-cum-sale agreements which will eventually pro-
vide them with the legal tenure. Finally, while progress in improving Madras
Corporation's accounting and financial management capabilities has been some-
what slower than anticipated, the Corporation has appointed a new Chief
Accountant and consultants to assist in designing and installing a new accoun-
ting system.
37.       The experience of the first project has been generally positive
and has reinforced the Madras authorities' recognition of the need for rapid
expansion of service programs which focus on the needs of the lower income
groups and continued reorientation of these programs toward low-cost, replic-
able service systems. It is in response to this need that the Government of
Tamil Nadu has sought IDA's support for a Second Madras Urban Development
Project, to complement and expand on the investment program underway under
the first project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The proposed project was appraised by a mission which visited India
in October 1979. A subsequent mission in March 1980 updated project cost
estimates as well as the project implementation schedule. A report entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report for the Second Madras Urban Development Project" (No.
2893-IN, dated November 26, 1980) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in November 1980.
The Governments of India and Tamil Nadu were represented by a delegation
coordinated by Mr. B.S. Lamba, Deputy Secretary, Department of Economic
Affairs, Government of India (GOI).
Project Description
39.       The proposed project would support the continued re-orientation of
shelter and infrastructure investments in Madras to make them more responsive
1/   In the past, clearance of slums and relocation of slum dwellers in
relatively high-cost tenements together with construction of finished
houses affordable only to higher income groups had constituted local
-agencies' approach to provision of shelter.



- 14 -
to the pressing needs of the city's lower income groups.  In support of this
objective, the project would not only finance physical investments in shelter
and infrastructure, but would supplement these investments with technical
assistance to build the capacity of local agencies to plan and execute appro-
priate service programs. The project would be carried out over approximately
four and a half years (December 1980-July 1985) and would consist of the
following five components.
(a) Sites and Services (US$18.1 million) 1/ - Two sites covering 180
hectares have been selected for development under the project on the basis of
their suitability for residential use, proximity to employment opportunities
and off-site infrastructure links, and availability for acquisition at a
reasonable price. Approximately 15,000 residential and 200 small industrial
plots (100 with on-site sheds) would be developed on these sites, which would
be provided with access roads and footpaths, water supply (through individual
groundwater systems), sewerage, drainage, street lighting and facilities for
individual power connections. A variety of plot sizes and options in terms of
on-plot super-structure (from an unenclosed sanitary core only to provision of
a two-room house) would be provided to suit the varying needs and repayment
capacities of a range of income groups. Basic housing construction loans for
lower income beneficiaries, and shed construction and machinery loans for
purchasers of industrial plots would be provided under the project. Also
schools, community halls, and fully-equipped medical centers would be provided.
(b)  Slum Improvement (US$22.7 million) - Under the project slum hutment
areas inhabited by about 50,000 households would be provided with improved
water supply, drainage, sanitation, security/street lighting, roads and foot-
paths, refuse collection services, and pre-schools and medical centers. 2/
Off-site arterial and feeder drains would be constructed or repaired to pro-
tect low-lying areas against flooding. In order to assist slum residents in
making improvements to their own homes, home improvement loans of approximately
US$180-420 equivalent would be made available to households with incomes over
Rs 250 (US$29) but under Rs 600 (US$71) per month. For households with
incomes below this level, which GTN feels could not afford to service such
loans, grants of Rs 600 (US$71) would be provided for home improvement.
(c) Transport (US$15.0 million) - The project would provide for the
procurement of about 550 single-deck buses and spare parts for the Metropolitan
Wing of the Pallavan Transport Corporation (PTC) 3/ in order to reduce over-
1/   Figures in parentheses are estimates of the total cost of each component,
exclusive of contingencies and design and supervision costs.
2/   Medical centers, as well as home improvement loans and grants, would be
provided to the 30,000 slum households in areas improved under the first
Madras project as well as areas improved under the proposed project.
3/   The State-owned bus company serving Madras.



- 15 -
crowding in city buses and replace over-age buses. As required by the result-
ing expansion of PTC's fleet, the project would also finance the construction
of one additional bus depot and the procurement of communications and workshop
equipment for PTC. Technical assistance would be provided for depot and work-
shop cost studies and surveys to continue improvements to operating procedures
(see section (e) below).
In addition to investments in support of PTC, the project would
address transport needs in the MMA through: (i) the construction of an addi-
tional 6 km of the Inner Ring Road, which would link the sites and services
areas developed under the project with those included in the first Madras
project and with important employment centers; and (ii) improvements (e.g.,
road widening, provision of cycle tracks) to 14 km of the Madras-Tiruvellore
Road, another major access way from the sites and services areas to employment
centers.
(d) Solid Waste Management and Infrastructure Maintenance (US$2.7 mil-
lion) - Vehicles and equipment (e.g., handcarts, collection bins, etc.) for
waste collection and disposal, a vehicle depot, and a refuse transfer station
would be provided to enable the Madras Municipal Corporation to extend its
refuse collection and disposal services, particularly to areas occupied by
low-income households, now typically under-served. With the assistance of
consultancy services provided under the project (see section (e) below), the
Madras Municipal Corporation would gather better information on refuse gene-
ration and collection and test a number of collection and disposal systems
during the project period, to establish a basis for making long-run plans for
solid waste management. The Corporation, again with the assistance of consul-
tants, would also identify deficiencies in its systems for maintenance of
basic infrastructure (especially secondary roads, footpaths, street lighting,
and public conveniences) and take initial remedial steps during the project
period. These remedial actions (for which US$1.2 million equivalent has been
budgeted) are expected to include equipment procurement and minor civil works
(e.g., depot construction), and will be carried out only after agreement has
been reached between IDA, GTN, and the Corporation (Section 2.07, Project
Agreement).
(e) Technical Assistance and Training (US$1.1 million) - In order to
facilitate improved development planning and investment programming in the
MMA, the project would provide technical assistance to MMDA to: (i) continue
the work program begun under the first project for the preparation of economic,
social and spatial development plans; (ii) assist MMDA in a study of present
and future employment and manpower training needs for the MMA; (iii) assist
MMDA in analyzing the economic, financial, and technical feasibility of pro-
posed major investment projects; (iv) design and install a planning and deve-
lopment information system; and (v) train MMDA's staff in the organization and
management of urban systems. In addition, in order to insure that MMDA has
adequate resources to continue and expand the community development work it has
undertaken in slum and sites and services areas, the project would support the
establishment within MMDA of a unit to operate a Small Entrepreneurs Identifi-
cation Program, which would assist small entrepreneurs in obtaining loans from
State and commercial banks. As mentioned above, the Madras Municipal Corpor-
ation would be provided with technical assistance to: (i) facilitate the



- 16 -
gathering of data on solid waste generation, collection and disposal and the
evaluation of alternative solid waste management systems; and (ii) identify
potential organizational and operational improvements to the Corporation's
infrastructure maintenance systems. Finally, the project would provide tech-
nical assistance to PTC for cost studies and surveys of operational procedures
(see (c) above) and to the Small Industries Development Corporation (SIDCO),
to enhance its capacity to promote small business development on the commer-
cial/industrial plots in the sites and services areas.
Project Implementation
40.          Project implementation would be coordinated and monitored by MMDA,
which has demonstrated its capacity for management, monitoring and evaluation
and progress reporting under the first Madras project. Primary responsibility
for the individual project components would be assumed by the following
agencies:
(a)  Sites and Services             Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB)
Small Industries Development
Corporation (SIDCO); 1/
(b)  Slum Improvement               Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board
(TNSCB);
(c)  Transport                      Buses -- Pallavan Transport
Corporation (PTC)
Road Improvements -- Department of
Highways and Rural Works (DHRW);
(d)  Solid Waste Management         Madras Municipal Corporation (MMC); and
and Infrastructure
Maintenance
(e)  Technical Assistance           MMDA, MMC, PTC, SIDCO.
and Training
In addition, in sites and services and slum improvement areas, the Departments
of Education, Health and Social Welfare and, in some cases, voluntary agencies
would operate completed schools and health centers, and existing service
agencies, such as the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board and the Madras Metropolitan
Water Supply and Sewerage Board, would be drawn in to operate newly installed
infrastructure. These agencies have the necessary capability to carry out
their obligations under the proposed project.
Project Costs and Financing
41.          The total cost of the project is estimated at US$87.9 million, of
which US$13.5 million, or about 15% of total project cost, represents foreign
exchange costs. Physical contingencies of 10% have been applied to civil works
1/   Management of sale of industrial sites and sheds and associated machinery
and shed loans only.



- 17 -
for road construction and improvement and for the sites and services areas, and
of 15% to slum improvement civil works. Price contingencies have been applied
for the period 1980/81-84/85 to all items except land already publicly owned or
subject to imminent acquisition at rates of 11%, 7.7%, 7.7%, 7.7% and 5.5% per
year, respectively, for items of local procurement and 10.5%, 9%, 8%, 7% and
7% per year, respectively, for items subject to foreign procurement. Technical
assistance costs (including consultants' salaries, overhead, profit, travel,
and subsistence) have been estimated at US$7,000 per man-month for foreign
consultants and approximately US$1,000 equivalent per man-month for locally
procured services.
42.          The proposed credit of US$42 million would finance 50% of project
cost net of taxes and duties, which are estimated at US$3.9 million equivalent,
and would cover all foreign exchange costs. The Government of India would
make the proceeds of the credit available to GTN on the standard terms and
conditions for State development projects.  GTN would ir turn provide funds
equivalent to the proceeds of the credit, together with the balance of project
costs, to the implementing agencies on the terms and conditions indicated
below.
Financing Plan (US$ million)
Primary
Implementing    Grants and Direct               Total
Component                    Agency(ies)        Expenditures        Loans    Cost
Sites and Services              TNHB                22.6             -         22.6
SIDCO               -              5.7 /a      5.7
Slum Improvement                TNSCB               33.1             -         33.1
Transport:  Buses               PTC                  -             15.0 /b    15.0
Roads              DHRW                 6.3             -          6.3
Solid Waste Management
& Infrastructure
Maintenance                   MMC                  1.8            1.9 /c      3.7
Technical Assistance            MMDA, MMC,           1.5             -          1.5
SIDCO, PTC
Total                                         65.3            22.6        87.9
/a   At 8.5% per year over 10 years.
/b   At 10.5% per year over 15 years for bus chassis and 12.5% per year over
15 years for other capital investments.
Ic   At 11% per year over 20 years with 3 years' grace.
These terms and conditions are consistent with prevailing practice. As under
the first project, GTN would provide funds for sites and services and slum
improvement schemes on a grant basis to TNHB and TNSCB, who would deposit all
revenues collected under these schemes in revolving funds to finance future
sites and services and slum improvement efforts. Charges would be made of
beneficiaries under the various components on the terms and conditions out-
lined in paras 44-50 below.



- 18
Cost Recovery
43.          Strong emphasis has been placed on cost recovery under the proposed
project, in order to ensure the long-term replicability of the service programs
supported so that these programs can be expanded to respond to the growing
service needs of the population of Madras. Cost recovery measures to be taken
under the four direct service components are outlined below. The terms and
conditions for onlending to beneficiaries for shelter, shed construction and
machinery loans are consistent with market rates and are expected to be
positive in real terms. They should be evaluated against a background of
almost total price stability in India over the period 1974/75-1978/79.
Although 1979/80 saw an upsurge in inflation to an annual rate of approxi-
mately 16.7%, the rate of inflation over the project period is expected to
fall to an average of 7%.
44.         Sites and Services.  The full costs of land, on-site infrastruc-
ture, plot development, and construction and machinery loans under the sites
and services component (66% of total component cost) would be recovered
through plot sales and loan repayments. While residential plots for the
lowest income groups would be priced below the equivalent of total chargeable
costs, the sale at market prices of plots designated for middle and higher
income groups and for commercial and industrial uses would offset the subsidy
to the poorest beneficiaries. Plot sales and improvement loans would be made
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (Section 3.04, Project Agreement),
which would include: (i) for residential and commercial plots, payment by
beneficiaries of a minimum 10% downpayment on the price of the plot, with
the balance of the plot charge plus the improvement loan (for eligible bene-
ficiaries) paid at 12% per annum interest over 15 years; (ii) for industrial
plots and sheds to be managed by SIDCO and shed construction loans, payment
by beneficiaries of a minimum 20% downpayment on developed sites with the
balance paid over eight years at 11% per annum interest with two years' grace;
and (iii) for machinery loans, payment by beneficiaries of a minimum 20%
downpayment, with the balance repaid over seven years at 11% per annum in-
terest with one year's grace. In addition, all beneficiaries would be charged
Rs 3 (US$0.36 equivalent) per month for maintenance. Settler selection
criteria to be agreed with IDA (Section 3.04, Project Agreement) would ensure
that various plot size and design alternatives would be reserved for desig-
nated income groups. All revenues from plot sales (minus a 2.5% deduc-
tion on industrial sites to cover SIDCO's administrative cost) would be
deposited in the Sites and Services Revolving Fund established under the
first project to support future low-cost shelter investments (Section 3.06(i),
Project Agreement).
45.          The remainder of component cost is accounted for by off-site
infrastructure (28%) and community facilities (6%). The cost of off-site
infrastructure would be partially recovered through electricity, water, and
sewerage taxes and charges, while the cost of community facilities would be
largely unrecovered, with the exception of some school sites which would be
sold to private agencies for construction and operation of schools. In
recognition of the high overall level of cost recovery in this component, and
thus the replicability of the program, and the responsiveness of these invest-
ments to the needs of low income groups typically not served through public
shelter investments in the past, GTN would, commencing April 1, 1982, limit



- 19 _
its annual investment in housing other than for economically weaker sections
to 55% of its total investment, and, would agree with IDA on the physical
standards of its housing for economically weaker sections (Section 3.02,
Project Agreement). These agreements would represent a significant shift in
TNHB's investment profile since the start of the first IDA-supported urban
project in Madras, wien virtually none of TNHB's investments in the Madras
area went into shelter affordable by the lowest income groups.
46.          Slum Improvement.  Approximately 72% of the total cost of the
component represents directly chargeable costs (i.e., land, on-site infra-
structure, and funds for home improvement). Seventy-six percent of these
directly chargeable costs would be recovered through improvement charges
and loan repayments under the project (which would be made on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA; Section 3.05(ii), Project Agreement), and
channelled back into the Slum Improvement Revolving Fund set up under the
first project (Section 3.06(ii), Project Agreement). Beneficiaries of the
slum improvement program would be assessed a monthly charge for land and
improvements of Rs 13.6 (US$1.62 equivalent) for a period of 15 years with no
downpayment required. This charge is calculated by amortizing 75% of average
per household land and improvement cost at 12% interest over 15 years and
adding a monthly maintenance charge of Rs 2. These payments would be made
under lease-cum-sale agreements which would entitle the beneficiary to full
tenure to the improved plot on conclusion of the 15-year period or on pre-
payment of the full land and improvement charge (Section 3.05(i), Project
Agreement). Home improvement loans to eligible beneficiaries would be fully
recovered at 12% interest over 15 years. Home improvement grants to families
with incomes below Rs 200/month would, of course, not be recovered.
47.          The remainder of component cost is accounted for by off-site
infrastructure (21%) and community facilities (7%). As in the sites and
services program, off-site infrastructure costs would be partially recovered
from electricity, water, and sewerage taxes and charges. The costs of com-
munity facilities in slum areas, however, would not be recovered.
48.        In addition to improving direct cost recovery for the IDA-supported
slum improvement program, GTN intends to improve TNSCB's overall cost recovery
by reducing the proportion of this agency's investments in its highly subsi-
dized slum clearance/tenement program. TNSCB's tenement program was phased
down to an annual level of Rs 37.5 million (US$4.5 million) under the first
IDA-supported urban development project in Madras, and this limit on expendi-
tures would be continued under the proposed project (Section 3.03, Project
Agreement). The amount of Rs 37.5 million would comprise a decreasing propor-
tion of the State's investment and, as a result of price increases, produce a
decreasing number of tenemants.
49.       Transport.  On November 1, 1980, the Government of Tamil Nadu
implemented, an increase of 30% in the average fare per passenger kilometer
charged by PTC in the MMA. With this increase, bus fares would fully recover
all costs of bus services, including depreciation and debt service. In
addition, in order to ensure that PTC continues to maintain a sound financial



- 20 -
and operational profile, PTC would maintain a minimum current ratio 1/ of 1.5,
a maximum operating ratio 2/ of 0.95, and a minimum debt service coverage 3/
of 1.5 (Section 3.09, Project Agreement). No special cost recovery provisions
would be introduced for the road construction and improvement program, as
expenditures on road construction and maintenance in the MMA are already
exceeded by revenues derived from fuel taxes, excise duties and taxes on tires
and other charges imposed on road users.
50.       Solid Waste Management and Infrastructure Maintenance.  The Madras
Municipal Corporation currently funds these activities out of general revenues.
While no specific charges for these services would be introduced under the
project, particular attention would be paid to improving the financial condi-
tion of the Corporation. To this end, GTN has already taken the following
steps: (i) appointment of a qualified individual to the post of Municipal
Chief Accountant; (ii) appointment of consultants to design, install, and
train staff for a double entry cash or accrual accounting system; and
(iii) preparation of proposals for increasing the Corporation's revenues,
including improvement in collection of property taxes, the major source of
self-generated revenue for the Corporation. GTN would cause the Corporation
to increase its revenues by at least 8% per year (Section 3.10(i), Project
Agreement). In addition, the Corporation would ensure that its debt service
payments do not exceed 20% of its self-generated revenues for any year up
through and including 1985/86 (Section 3.10(ii), Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       Contracts for civil works, with a total value of US$42.7 million
equivalent, 4/ would be individually small and scattered. About 200 indivi-
dual contracts, the bulk of which would be approximately US$200,000 in value,
would be let over the four-and-a-half year project period. Although civil
works contracts in the same area would be combined as far as possible, these
contracts would be unlikely to attract foreign bidders and would thus be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding under procedures acceptable
to IDA.
52.       Bus chassis and spare parts (estimated total value US$8.5 million)
and equipment for solid waste management--with the exception of hand carts
and refuse bins--(US$1.1 million) would be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's procurement guidelines.
Domestic bidders competing under international bidding would be allowed a
preference margin equal to 15% of the c.i.f. bid price or the current applic-
able customs duty, whichever is lower. Handcarts and refuse bins (US$0.5
million) would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding in
1/   Current assets/current liabilities.
2/   Operating costs/operating revenues.
3/   Net revenue/total debt service.
4/   All costs in this section are cited net of taxes but inclusive of
contingencies.



- 21 -
accordance with procedures satisfactory to,IDA. Additional equipment to be
purchased under the project (US$1.4 million) would largely involve small
contracts under US$50,000 in value for equipment normally procured without
competitive bidding, by reason of its specialized nature or required standard-
ization. Such equipment would be purchased through normal commercial channels
after obtaining, wherever possible, quotations from at least three suppliers.
However, infrastructure maintenance equipment to be purchased by the Corpora-
tion (to be selected on the basis of consultants' advice and in consultation
with IDA; see para 39(d) above) would be purchased on the basis of local
competitive bidding where contracts would exceed US$50,000 in size and the
supply network permits competitive bidding. Finally, bus bodies (US$4.2
million) would be built in PTC's own workshop, which has demonstrated its
competitiveness with private manufacturers in both price and quality. Mate-
rials to be used in bus body construction (US$2.2 million) would be procured
by PTC on the basis of local competitive bidding following procedures satis-
factory to IDA.
53.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against: (i) 55% of
expenditures for civil works and for equipment and materials procured through
local competitive bidding or prudent shopping; (ii) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures or 100% of local ex-factory costs for equipment procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding; (iii) 100% of expenditures on technical
assistance and training; and (iv) 40% of expenditures for shelter, home
improvement, and small business loans. Disbursements against civil works
payments not exceeding Rs 300,000, equipment and materials payments not
exceeding Rs 150,000, and expenditures on loans to eligible beneficiaries
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure. Disbursements
against all other expenditures would be fully documented.
Benefits and Risks
54.       The principal benefits of the proposed project would be to redirect
a growing proportion of public investment in shelter and infrastructure in
the MMA toward low-cost, replicable programs which would benefit low-income
groups, to expand the capacity of local institutions to plan and execute
appropriate public service programs, and to extend the concept of full cost
recovery, introduced under the first project, by supporting even more afford-
able design solutions for low-income households. The average rate of return
on investments, the benefits of which are quantifiable (representing 74% of
total project cost) is estimated at 22%. The sites and services component
would provide shelter, infrastructure, and community services for about 15,000
families (approximately 83,000 people), of which 11,100 (61,000 people) fall
between the 10th and the 47th percentiles on the MMA's income distribution
curve. The average cost per household served of the plots and services pro-
vided is estimated at US$1,900. In addition, the industrial sites developed
are expected to serve about 200 new or expanding businesses supporting at
least 4,000 jobs. The slum improvement component would provide land tenure
and basic infrastructure and services to approximately 50,000 slum households,
most of which have incomes below the urban poverty threshold, at an average
cost per household of US$570. Health facilities would also be provided to
30,000 households included in the slum improvement program supported by the
first project. Taken together, 63% of the cost of these two components would
directly benefit households below the absolute poverty level. These households



- 22 -
are 77% of the combined beneficiaries of the two shelter components. The
economic rate of return of the sites and services component is estimated at
28%, while that of the slum improvement component is estimated at 13%.
55.       The PTC investment program would reduce the extreme overcrowding
on city buses and provide buses to extend services into the new sites and
services areas developed under both the first and proposed second Madras urban
projects. The economic rate of return of this program, taking the incremental
revenue accruing to PTC as a proxy for the minimum level of benefits, is
estimated to be about 33%. It should be noted that this estimate does not
take into account the benefits which would accrue due to reduced passenger
waiting time or reduced wear and tear from overcrowding on PTC buses. The
road construction and improvement program would stress the provision of
adequate and safe facilities for pedestrians, cyclists and bus passengers
and would ensure that newly developed sites and services areas are well-
connected to employment centers. The economic rate of return for the
extension of the Inner Ring Road is estimated at 13%.
56.       Finally, the solid waste management and infrastructure maintenance
program would extend refuse collection coverage and raise the efficiency of
other municipal services in low income areas which currently do not benefit
adequately from these services, thereby considerably reducing public health
hazards. It is expected that the investments supported by this program will
permit the collection of an additional 200 tons/day of solid waste and signi-
ficantly improve services to, among others, the 80,000 households in slum
areas improved or to be improved under the two Bank Group-supported urban
projects in Madras. Furthermore, the program would support the testing of
alternative methods of solid waste collection and disposal to assist the
Madras Municipal Corporation in identifying long-term cost-effective strate-
gies for dealing with the growing solid waste management task.
57.       The experience already gained by IDA and the implementing agencies
under the first project should act to minimize the risks under the proposed
project. There are, nevertheless, two potential risks. First, there is the
possibility that the increase in the construction programs for which TNHB and
TNSCB are responsible, might stretch the capacity of these agencies. In the
case of TNHB, however, the proposed sites and services component represents
an increase of only about 15% over the level reached in the first project.
Moreover, steps have already been taken to streamline TNHB's procedures in
light of the experience of the first project and annual staffing requirements
for the proposed project have been carefully reviewed with TNHB, which has
assured, to IDA's satisfaction, that adequate staff will be available. In
the case of TNSCB, an increase of 70% in the total slum improvement program
is anticipated over the course of the proposed project. However, the reduc-
tion in TNSCB's slum clearance/tenement construction program (see para 48
above) would free a sizeable contingent of staff for the slum improvement
program, and if need be the Madras Municipal Corporation is willing and able
to supplement TNSCB's capacity. A careful review of TNSCB's overall staff
resources and past performance has been conducted and used as a basis for a
realistic project implementation schedule.



- 23 -
58.       The second potential risk involves the conclusion of lease-cum-sale
agreements and collection of payments from beneficiaries in the sites and
services and slum improvement schemes. With still limited experience under
the first project, all procedural problems involving the granting of title and
collection of payments may not have been identified. However, by November
1980 lease-cum-sale agreements had been concluded with over 2,000 slum resi-
dents and 2,200 sites and services beneficiaries. The experience so far is
encouraging. Moreover, the proposed charges to various income groups fall
well within the applicable limits of affordability and the assurance of title
to sites and services and slum plots is expected to provide ample incentive
for payment to beneficiaries, who typically have been living with the extreme
insecurity that comes of unauthorized settlement on public and private lands.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.        The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State
of Tamil Nadu, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Association are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
60.        Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III  of
Annex III.
61.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
November 25, 1980






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7AGES
LANE) AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL            3287.6
AGRICULTURAL    1824.0                                   MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 4 PACIFIC            ASIA 6 PACIFIC
tNP PER CAPITA (I_)                     60.0        90.0      180.0              197.9                   894.8
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
'KIIOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      108.0/c      141.0/c   176.O/c             166.0                   842.4
POPULATION AND VirAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MlID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    434.9        547.6      643.9
lRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9          19.7       21.7               20.8                    39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       974. l
STATUONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         1645.0
YFAR STATIONARY POPLLATION IS REACHED                    2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. RM4.                      132.0        167.0      196.0              193.2                   376.1
PER SQ. KM. ACRICULTURAL LAND    247.0         308.0     353.0               409.6                  2350.4
POPTLUATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-!4 YRS.                          40.0         42.5       41.4               42.0                    40.4
15-64 YRS.                          56.5         54.6      55.6               55.0                     56.2
65 YR5. ASD ABOVE                    3.5          2.9        3.0                3.0                     3.4
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.9         2.5        2.0                2.2                     2.4
[TRBAN                               2.5/d       3.3        3.3                3,9                     4.1
CRIJDE BINTH RATE (PER TROUSAND)      43.0        40.0       35.0               37.4                    28.7
CRUDF DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       21.0        17.0       14.0               14.6                     7.9
CR0ss REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2         2.9        2.4                2.6                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      64.0       3782.0    4714.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          12.0       16.9               15.6                    39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           98.0        102.0      103.0              101.4                   116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    93.0         92.0      91.0               92.4                    108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           52.0         51.0       50.0               49.8                    60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0         15.0       13.0               12.0                    18.8
CHILD (AC-ES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      28.0        22.0       18.0               17.9                     5.3
HEALTH
LIPFE EXPECTANCY Ar BNITH (YEARS)    43.0         48.0       51.0               50.8                    63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..       134.0         ..                 ..                    52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        17.0       33.0               30.2                    42.4
URBAN                                ..         60.0       83.0               66.0                    62.1
RURAL                                 ..         6.0       20.0               20.0                    29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAI                                 ..        18.0       20.0               17.7                    52.8
URBAN                                 ..        85.0       87.0               71.3                    71.1
RURAL                                 ..         1.0        2.0                 *-                    42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           5800.0/e    4890.0    3617.0              6322.7                   4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      9630.0/e    5220.0    5675.0              9459.0                   2213.6
POPE'LATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2149.0/f    1629.0    1289.0               1758.4                   819.4
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..             502.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..           10524.1
ADMISSIONS PER HnSPITAL BED            ..           ..         ..                ..                     28.8
HOUSINC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.2          ..        5.2
URBAN                                5.2          ..        4.8
RURAL.                               5.2          ..        5.3
AV'ERAGF SUM8ER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTASI                               2.6         2.8
lIRBAN                               ..           ..
RIR41.                               ..           ..
ArCCSS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWEILNCS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RITRAI                               ..           ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  CES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 61.0         72.0       80.0               80.9                   98.6
MALE                  80.0        87.0       95.0               94.3                   99.2
FEMALE                40.0        55.0       64.0               66.7                   97.7
SECONDARY;   TOTAL                 20.0         29.0      28.0               26.6                    55.5
MALE                  30.0        39.0       38.0               34.8                   60.7
FEMALE                10.0        17.0       18.0               18.2                   49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)   8.0           6.0/R       .                 9.9                   13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            29.0         40.0      42.0               41.1                    34.6
SECONDARY                          16.0         17.0         ..              20.5                    28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0        33.0       36.0               40.9                   85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7          1.0        1.3               1.8                     9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0         21.0      24.0               25.8                   118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           *-          0.1       0.5                2.4                   39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0        16.0       16.0               13.4
CINEM4A ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0          6.3        3.8                ..                     4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  252235.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   31.3         32.6      32.0               29.4                    36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              74.0         74.0       74.0              70.5                    51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0         11.0       11.0              11.6                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 43.0        40.2       39.2               37.9                   39.1
MALE                                  57.1        52.3       51.3               51.3                   48.5
FEMALE                               27.9         27.1       26.2               23.7                   29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1        1.1                1.2                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7          26.3h        .
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48.9/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1           6.7i h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.2/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      88.0               107.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..       76.0              86.5                   192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                ..                   182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      40.7               46.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..       47.9               51.7                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
LA   Solid fuel conversion factors revised, /d 1951-60;  /e 1962;  /f 1958;  /g 1967;  /h 1964-65.
April, 1980



ANNEX I
DFNTOSOF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                           Page    3   of   5
5~os"   Aths-ogcr-at  err dc-a  free souce  generall  :dgrd the noeatot-vndrlale   tsold also he -totd that they say et be inter.-
-olol    oparo-    -rcosef ottI loo  of su-da-di-ed definlit-e aod c..erepte usd by difeseo                     fsIn teifecting the data.  The data r.  tree
cceli-.-cdd oooeecdeso  eqlot,ldletet tred,, aod ehar-ter-a-  -tsat, maJor differt-oss bet-eutou..trie..
orc.  rtrrcoor   ecp r                 'Cap1-ItalloeI_y Oi toyortca    oo   he   Middle Iucern  North Afri-a aed Middl  E., east" I             .cheost  .a.aa. of etresgee
u --cc -cuyua  atiditles).  To the ref--eo  getup daoa thea agsaePeplaIttot neighted arsmee eesfo   ah tidiratte aed shoe   sly abet at
onato  old oitAr cotetes  o a ~sup hoedata frthat CeleToL.bimo  th             ..evg  oetttsoeg the   diotto-  dpseds at the avalahilisy of
of  t- tudoe-r o  ai slo  a..eeg the . u....  tey   d         efenegreaps.
LAND tREd (cheuad   qolOeouatctm RerlHh2scla-  rcoottyeI etytud  Otose  ofpotloleg pep-
-.loolsrfar   re  oeirttf  ostonoan  bltdtuor.tiiu.  oad dc   cy-   edse   chd                                            laso-orn  o  sel
Ai,tcLfuAi  - REsiae.        teeoLsoralt area used respoolfiy or 1 pemeeety,                fueolatoov ye! N-vi          o                  d oualei, tc.. byem rofpatig
d    of,posturesZsarhe  -ud kiltehet garden  or. ty lie yalee; 1907 data,             sale  -O ftalt geodoorohss  pe-ctitol torte, andasitne    sa
H..ltooer   .eyie  led -              ,-a yr- ara l F-1  yPTILai0   (Ltota,
drNP PER dcIiA (LM0$  - GNfPye  racis  euiae          t curren  e-kee peters, eat-                      eel rtall dteided by ehete enspeeti   nashbr  f hosp ital beds
relatd by - Acn  -ohecenetd  u lurId lath AsIan (th9r-i  haste); 1960,                        aesihlebl  it phlit cod polv-se geosoi o-d nysialtee   hespitatad  s,-
lid  sod '773 dote.                                                 ~hohilinatioore-t-o.  Hospitl-         r        1sibiha..o   pema tlystffe
th'Ftd .fodojyAiPERf CA01T   - bic-ee                                                                   ...moe   f  omrylsery(ol byo   oe    r  physicIan_E tatobishm..nts yovidis1 pnlmeipally costdia1
_TA   --p,J..  f-Lgy                  I                      I~~roe  ae co hrlded.   uEl hopitals, h-se,,,  ebe  eathsd sedlia1
-eduoc'r   or  Ien           cra   a  a-d h,ydro-,  -ucs-  o-d ge-rhero  els-                 cenor  ens persanresly staffed by a physIian  (bu  by a medis1.. eaiestt
rilc-cc   In kl1ogeass of to-  e.qo_l-eo  Penc else; t96I, 1900,..ad 1909                     -n-s, nidafo, er.)  hbteh offe  te-rutee.-          rontaeead peostle
loe                                                                                           liaised rsnge ofnedloa1 fertisies..  For ntssisieal psepesse neba  hospi-
rif:Lifdht AbC 111,01 ATAOTSTICI                                        tab~~W   i-clode Wills Pe_irhegesal     eel. I..  np-ielold hospitats, eel tars
POP,L&T,ON A]ND VITAL STATISTICS                                                  '~~tsysols  oo  or r-ra I-bootols ud erdiroI end  aterotty tnet
A1dlIily2idsyAid.Y-Atr(t_itiona) - Au of July 1; 1960, 119?b, end 1978                 Adlaes  e   e                ,tlld- Ter   tote o:. fadeisaites to or disehargss
deco,tru  h-tyLtIs dflided by itho ethe  07 bela.
AsffoecdelA   ico   futeoeotoaflert  -epu-chlly of date                              HOUSINGo
--yyui- s; 29th. 197, end 19)8  lecsA-. Ovre  Sitee f t                                                  ...t.shod   2-n-n  per houshold) - ot.t1, urba..  sd total-
y~~yAoolvrlr3jtcc1euu  ~~~~~~A tesa..bold e...ilat  of a ge-up u  individuals she share living q"aIte"n
Ocaa nin yea  2011  -C ret population pr.e)oslnnae.baero I            IMO             anCd their esin seal.  A b-d-  -e lodge  ma_y orma  so  he included is
b,o o fush  age ted oo nod their motlthadf.ittrtn                               the .o.shold fee stutistic-1 oc-eunes
o         ..le .e.et-tcy at bIrch ~       Ih loss... i   cutry's yFe tayite Iet.se     heA,   prse  pe_os             l     o,ad  rure  _cepie    tvesta
boi, ocd foesl d.Ie   .epo..oocy aailAnieg us 77.5 years .  The pore-                   -sliu,  eycsel.fel a   elde  c-emnomercun    n
ocr irriclis  taee alto  tout t~~hreeI . 1eel  -eesing de-lie to         s..ctupied  p-v..
"c-it10  u-odoe   occo  Inr   u  ps                   ly PIle..nleg P-eforsayrt          -.. cesto  EI-titftlt   P ...ce  of dulos      ua, tuba..ted renal -
tor -h -~r~ Is  hyssgo    n  ot r.heu   -vboeisatic-  of nertolity                        Cnuve-ti-al deeIlioga_ cfth e v.;lecriity Is living qaLtnera  percetage
be boct.o cots is  quod so  i  d-cth otto, end als  thtRagssEDUer-             CATIOyNs
easoeors- ec     thI  In tei      Ld_lpatrfrility Lese  deeline 00                      AdjsEd  eolnesIt cRtios
ito  -oplocoe-t le-e  of onIC 5ct r-prdotoin rate, thesctgnrlin                           O oesbol-oa, sate yued inoe-lostnl                            -aead female
sOot5 tepar  herb   os-tly.  The.   taoso    ouatinl           Ie  e .trlee c--                    C11-   eli ugen  t ospiay  ee   speesa                f reesv
he tho rear lolA, and rho rato of dribe  of f-rilloty este to replace-                      yearn bot od-dated for diftferntlngb o_~ f pioydeai                    e
F_  et                                     Th.rc-.   h-uttio..lypu...eibb.l  -eiv-e-1 edacotoeei-                                      olln          - nyesesd l.Id prcet
hiro b -chr  settld.                                                                   ISeodtdy  -ehycti- totolb tredfml   Compared as shoe; stendesy
TrAkn.-  lid-yea  rorolas-e  yet aquat hilo--e 11D0 h-osars  of                           proide  geera, ctatlal. orte..          e   teanie   pnasestyin.ts ot e
urlolsradice   - erptedus  byn fe orteuiutl  undunsiloef12 te 17 years of age; o--ponde..te osra    e  ge..erally
eely.                                                                                       ut-tico .  or..  e I(rennet oi neceedary) - V.o.teiona.l isetirutsion
fesute  OeOtutoe(prE,r  - Chiltlee   (0-l4 years.  soltogeg    i                                 incod   tehnical  tedata, oroher pregnams  hieb opore.imtdepen-
blnoo,uoI        eIted  (61 -rtr  ad o-e) te p-ente.gee~ iiod-year pops-                      denl   sa  oprmna  fsnneytsioise
dative; 1760, 1370, and 1979 davo.                                                          forsi-res.h.   cate           ...rsa .. an  secon,daty- Tra  ntsdsIta esr-1id is
OAO_A-.i.o.    . thyAOLOr R rnerot>- - ...   - Oo-,e  aro-el -so- ef in-l  id-                   yeimay eel scondaylvs dividedlyebesoftetbr  in  he
soar -epclor'ous foe 1951-61, 161-70, end 1970-7f,                                    ecerenpoedioglcno
Piooo1--y io--t Ous ileeco-t  - urben- Avota.t g-eth eaten of chen fop-                       Adolt  lIteacyL ste (p--ees) - Literate  sd1ts  (able en teed ted arise>
lances 1 te    I yA-RI, 1060-70, end 1971_.                                                   usp-roetag  of ctetl ado1t poyslatto_agd 10 years and ove.
t..  IisO     ..(lfA.t  lone ifet ) - A--1u live bIrths per Lbh...a.d et  id-yeur
iy.drtic; 1960, 1970, and 1978 data.                                                CONSUMTIONtl
(osdLin&utr leerttossadl    see   esopriosn    fmdya                                 asne  Cao  leer sthoomo  poloi               - Pasasoger enee cosprias e.tte
1960cce  lR, d970, and 1908 dat.                                                      ...ti I.:t. ihtI..      .ld.h-.     d
rosbR-ccdactsoo tate -u--ge neater of daughters au nilborv                                 sill tey vsiclen
-euroirpryducote  peiod If sh   eonin            Lrno  ago-apseiit fee              1di iR-iv-e  Iper thno...d recoatr               A-ll typee of r...aivee for eadt
ctl it  eate; ossLy  fire-yea  everees   diegfI    lu  1970, and 1907.                 brade-stn it general1 public pro thoannd of pepoletius; ...elades sali-
Pur-y IIuciet  Att-ptoe-  A-ooI Ith_uade) - ~ Au.oa  eosbet of tecpt...                       testd  _eosoi-   in  -eiaandtoyears she. ragiatetiea of sadie,e
odhrl-ccrlItAe  adeesle   f  ainltel  pitoolo  fC ...t                                      stIs affec; data fst reetst yenta may out he copa-blelteme
Pau LoI_~p I  emiLa-s... (p Ie    f mcldnss  - P-otusage of sopied                             toesisa abolished  tic-slg.
noreofctld-tb-icg ag   l-tA  ores b.h oathtth-c...trol devices so                    TV leceivera leer thousad rylu n)-t'.. ee              -tver  fsI betadnast to
all nceotudecrrnlnoame  age group.                                   gentel polic per s1heosted peysltsion  -ooldetotliose  ITYrfceiner
rOll tAt NTRIdTION                                                                              itecos..   es..   t o yenta when _egistrat ios of    ats  t  in efet.
loden0   e    tdctqe  Capt  196h9-1.l00l - Isds  of ysret-pitta.t.s.                          sieo.diy  eee   ners1es e -,PP,-...fd                           p-s he   eesg   oprl-
;s cc caleudue yearlenIn.  Cote,cllsie tive  priarygods (e.g. -dagarnae         liontion devotd primarily st estes. ding goatee  nes-         It is t..eidsed
I _d   Y_  b. I C_.dI      pLi-,y g..d. (..g. .         -            L.~s he "doily" if i   per  atl t feo  tines  teeth.
coru    fngcIeltateil  adcoaoueee                       rg    efetdI              fisem  Aneuel Atnenent  fee-:  .eieyt.         t-eeds  h   obr
tcae       Id Ad gg-gate production of septh coutry is batdo.toe-sld  dre    hsou,inldsediaoatodiestema
--reag  p-ed-- prtr- scilhtn; 1961-br, 1970, and 1979 dasu.en  me,kb-ie                          -  gtontiJn..ig    i.i                     .d         -.
ve e.......ion  of se  food oupplirsi evlu-l   sou             prcpia             LABOR FORCE
ecdayA.  .vlut. espplins  -upetee domestic pe-d-olee, imfi lets-                     T1usd  Labor Pet (tssee             E- Iucicay  -cnv  Pete..... inolodisg
-coc,ad chaee  io seek.  MeN        opisetoeatat"PfmA  stdh re                               fe...o.seplod  bteeuig   osaea  suet,ec
q-eti tic  sed In food yorig,ed I.eses ie dietribtbs a    eqire-                          Definis.toes          . isvaios    otLnaue.o.. e..yeble  196, 197  ee
eysteeratisuted he 000 booed on phytngoi etdsfo  noma  scsI-                             19tda.
cloce    hrlt  --eidecisg  -tipoe--ta  tensaae   oyFegt,ae                             Omae(ecn)            - 1feal  leb- forte at pee--sge  f ttllborfeos
oe  i    td oiu -v nO  .poyttioo, ucd aloin   1   .roetft n_tt                 Anrtc-Itsre leere..ns) - Labor fetsi...         tg   erer.hets   n
louseleld  tevel; iOhl-hI, s1901 , ted 1)7 data,~   --           I   R             fitting e            gsossl  of  .totl  iste frce; 19'61, 190'1 tad 1t97Mles;t..
Ocr_cojlo uopol  of erosie  (gras ftp del - feoeinccstosytpencyiso    teuttoy (orous-)    Later  ory  Ic soing, cnasrunsie,i mans_ ctarin
orA  nuppy ci dod per da.  Sec spp1Y yf food lo defined os abuve.  R.           un   ineics,   ease  and gema  peeat-tge of toso1 labor fcroe; 1960,
qutrecr  fr at  ottera   atcltld by USA provide For mJim170td   91  eo
elloo1cc   of hO geeo of total pretoit per day and 20 gran  of ae-a  ted               fcscrs           aelecNs)   -scl,me,td femal   P-ftrtiiptnio   O
cuc    reeo   f ehict 10 grte- shccle ha esteci Foesae-  Th..e etasd-             atvyrosaeonoednscl,me,ndetislabn tens a
Ott I_ottbochm  of7   es   f  oa   r t  aid 231 gram   ot                              fe sfeo   aa,ml   n   eaepplto    falsr   ePetively;
aeteat posoft a  en ucecott toethe  -orl, pecyo..ed by FAD1 to sheItlrd          0960, 19701, tod 1970 deta.  These are ILl's yartictyatlee  sates refletring
World Feod Aer-oy; 196I-ti, 1971 cad 1977 dest.
Pet cucitaeotecv suply free. unme and -ala  - Pryceis supply effood de-                at ge-entt-coo   ofL she peuain   c   o    ts   rn.Alne
ned  ee  otl  aid pula-  Is grom  per day; 1961-, 1971 asd 1907 daa                    _tooic i  enp.de-e  Rtlf  - latie of pplasiun under lb ned 65 and eve
..odoe   -0) Z-tesocnoeR ee   thouan.d) - .A..Ie death  pe  th-ncd in                      .  h  t..          P.-f..
__ua  ryp 1-I  -nt, to rhlld... it this age testy; roe.setdevloping00-                     o hlotl,bnfce
tict Jut  de-ted tees life tebtso; 196i, 1970 cod 1307 dot.                             INCOME DISTRIBTtION
10AL-H                                                                                         Peetnt of fe ~vet  Ieomo- )beth in oah end kiod) - tece.iv-d by richest
LoirtupEcc-ey at ABco    Face) - A-etga sombre ef years o f life te-tieg                       i por.tent, ichets 20 ye--et, poorest 20 pesce-t, ted porear Al percet
ucte;    l  177 u9 d 197  dae                                                         eft-neole
Jcfa-  MfypaltocR- lcc   Lpy  tbhs--dI - Ancu-! deahs of ttfattestde  one year    rDontu,              t  Io
010 -or  ...ssed live births                                                      InTimte TARGEsGOUPSeeyIcm    eo  17rrt   ia)-ata  n   ua
Accst-     b_ate WaltorIoceo    -oucts              otl   ea,td eu-a   -                       Abtolote poverty le-ne   leve  is shins bos1        ee-hlneih 7li
fobripel ioa, u1rLben, an             a) nir.. ........l  epeo5ttt                       oristio...lo  dequte dint pits ... n elia1 so-toed requirements  It .to
suc (enthus f-y  p-ctet ed te-holon, eprings, ae'd naitiury wells) en-             sntdrltv   oso   nuslvllu   a   cte      ra  e   ea
pocs Ie    f thtroet-p-ricsoeds. I   tuba   reeobt                                     es etiiv-pyys  icsplee  i  oestedo,aetgepe  capita
dp-drd  sheu   with is      -F toaonal  2c0so  tht-hfose.  th:.r.  !y beaoalincome nt the c-tesy.  Urban levl is derived fo    h os
--iJ-      -  b..g 1dlhern-..s..tblt                       fetching "   a             and.roru      dJ- frce    "fIptatn(rhea drei  tete  e lteps"
the coL-Jclc   -bol dIpoal -t1t or--d          rtesez,Oosictaylnadhejein   lrrm
cscecce,u_d               beu-aeeh'ea--bcpn. rc.     o uthca - i f                                                                 April. 19M0



AINNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978:  USS 180
b/                                                                                                           c/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7  constant prices)
US$ Bln.         7.                 1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/75   1975/76-1977178
GNP at Market Prices                   117.08       100.0                        3.7                3.6                 3.7                2.8                 5.6
Gross Domestic Invest-ent               28.28        24.2
Gross National Saving                   28.11        24.0
Current Account Balance  d/              0.50         0.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor costl             Labor Farce              V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.             %                Mil.         7             DSS           O of National Average
Agricult-re                           24.5               46.6             130.0       72.1            188                 64
lndustry                              11.8              22,3               20.2      1.2             582                199
Services                              16.3              31.1               30.2       16.7            5142                86
Total/average                         52.6              100.0             180.4      100.0            292                100
GOVEREMRNT FINANCE                                                 e/
Gen-ral Govern,nent                                              Central Governvent
Rn. Bln.            % of CDP                                     R- .Bln.          7 of GDP
1978/79   1 98/ 79  1974/75-1978/79                              f9L7        1978/79   1974/75-1978/79
Current Reeoipts                     183.65        19.1          18.3                                 107.71       11.2          10.6
Current Etpenditcres                 177.26        18.4          16.7                                 108.99       11.3          10.1
Current Sorplus/Deficit                6.41         0.7           1.6                                 - 1.28       -0.1           0.5
Capital Expendit-res  _/              78.41         8.1           7.2                                  57.34        6.0           5.1
External Assistance (net) d/           8.15         0.8           1.4                                   8.15        0.8           1.4
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES            1970/71      1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79   September 1978   Septe-ber 1979
(Rn Billion outstanding at end of pnriod)
Money and Quasi Money                121.4        198.4        220.3        254.7        308.9        370.4        445.6         398.5            473.7
Bank Credit to Govern-ent (net)    52.6            87.3         95.3        101.1        110.2        134.7        153.9         139.5            161.7
Bank Credit to Coercial Sector   64.6             107.0        126.7        153.9        185.1        212.2        253.3         225.8            273.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                                January 1979    January 1980
Money and Quasi Money as 7
Of GDP                             30.1         33.5         31.5         34.5         38.8         41.5         46.3
Wholesale Price Ind..
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0        139.7        174.9         173.0        176.6        185.8        185.8         185.3           224.0
Annual percentage change- in;
Wholesale Price Index                  7.7         20.2         25.2        - 1.1          2.1          5.2           -            0.4             20.9
Bank Credit te Go-vrnvent (net)    10.8            12.3          9.2          b.1          9.0         22.2         14.3          16.9             15.9
Bank Credit ta CoOsnerCitl Sector   19.4           22.6         18.4         21.5         20.3         14.6         19.4          15.6             21.3
,/  The per capita GNP estimate is at varket prices, calcslated by the conversion technique used in the World Bank Atlas, 1979.
All other -onver-ions to dollars in thin table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
!I/ Quick Estimtes.
c/  C.apated from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/  World Bank estimatesI  oat necessarily consistent cith official figures.
e/ Transfer- between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/  All loans and advance-  to third parties have beeen n-etd oat.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PA'MENTS                     1976177    1977/78    1978/79 h  1979/80  h          MERCHIANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1978/79)
WS$ ban.        X*
Exports of Goods                         5,753       6,315       6,976       7,800           Engineering Goods               671         11
Imports of Goods                        -5,928      -7,188      -8,488    411,000            Tea                             420          7
Trade Balance                           -  175      -  873      -1,512      -3,200           GMS                             499          8
NFS (net)                                  379         692         882       1,050           Clothing                        378          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                           204       - 181       -630       -2,150                    Products               319          5
Jute Manufactures              251          4
Interest Payments (net)  i/               -182       -  89         130         400           Iron Ore                        270          5
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -           -           -          -             Cotton Textiles                 248          4
Net Transfers   j/                         695       1,077       1,000       1,000           Sugar                           224          4
-                                                       ~~~~~         ~       ~       ~~~~~ ~ ~~Others  2,649  45
Balance on Current Account                 717         807         500        -750            others                        29           45
Total                        5.929        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                         1,955       1,628       1,695      1,870            EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1979
Amortization                           -560        -645        -702    -   687                                                 USs billion
Transactions with IMF                     -337        -330        -158         -             Outstanding and Disbursed                   15.5
All Other Items                           -200         616         199    -  -183            Undisbursed                                  5.2
Outstanding. including                     20.7
Increase in Reserves (-)                -1,575      -2,076      -1,534    -   250                Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)                3,747       5,823       7,357       7,607                                             h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/              3,276       5,668       7,357       7,607           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978/79          15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                   IBRD/DA LENDING, DECBERR 31. 1979
Imports                                  1,581       1,811       2,043       4,050                                                 USS million
of which: Petroleum                   1,581       1,811       2,043      4,050                                              IBRD            IDA
Exports                                     37          32          24         -             Outstanding and Disbursed         689             4,286
of which: Petroleum                      21          18         n.5.        _             Undisbursed                      614              2,621
Outstanding, including         1,303             6,907
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971              US$1.00 - Re 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US50.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972          US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                         Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978                 US$1.00 - as 8.188
Rs 1.00 - US50.122
End-December 1979                           US$1.00 - Rs 7.907
Rs 1.00 - USOO.126
h/  Estimated.
1/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
J/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
-   included within official aid disbursements.
k/ Excludes net use of DIM credit.
1/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of August 31, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower         Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                              1,163.2
64 Credits fully disbursed                                      3,803.4
342-IN      1972   India    Education                  --         12.0    4.82
378-IN      1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --           8.0    1.59
390-IN      1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --            55.0    3.75
456-IN      1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing            --         13.0    6.80
1011-IN      1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0          --      16.85
482-IN      1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --         30.0   19.56
502-IN      1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --         83.0   32.62
521-IN      1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --         27.7   14.36
522-IN      1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --            16.4    6.17
526-IN      1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --         35.0    4.93
1079-IN      1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer          109.0       --       4.08
1097-IN      1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI            95.6       --       2.95
532-IN      1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0    5.97
541-IN      1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   10.86
562-IN      1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    3.79
572-IN      1975   India    Rural
Electrification I        --         57.0    5.82
585-IN      1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   19.62
598-IN      1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --        105.0   42.58
604-IN      1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --           150.0   68.39



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN     1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --        4.0      1.97
610-IN     1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    11.82
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0       --      96.17
1260-IN     1976   India    IDBI II                   40.0       --      19.74
1273-IN     1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0       --      23.55
1313-IN     1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0          --      23.24
1335-IN     1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0          --       8.85
680-IN     1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --        30.0   26.06
682-IN     1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development            --         20.0   12.71
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --       150.0   79.85
687-IN     1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --        24.0   11.30
690-IN     1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --        12.0   12.00
695-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          --         4.0    0.00
1394-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          14.0      --      14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    7.36
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation             --        23.0   15.63
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.04
1473-IN     1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0      --      22.74
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --        70.0   42.14
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --        13.0    9.96
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation          --        58.0   41.35
1475-IN     1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII           80.0      --      21.93
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --       107.0   87.54
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         --         87.0   43.75
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.39



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN     1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0       --      24.65
1549-IN     1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0       --      88.13
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --           117.6   94.22
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power        --        200.0  167.16
806-IN     1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   13.88
808-IN     1978   India    Gujarat Irrigation         --         85.0   74.22
815-IN     1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   16.47
816-IN     1978   India    National Seeds II          --         16.0   15.77
1592-IN     1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0          --      59.39
824-IN     1978   India    National Dairy             --        150.0  138.16
842-IN     1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --        196.0  192.10
843-IN     1979   India    Haryana Irrigation         --        111.0   69.23
844-IN     1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --        190.0  166.07
848-IN     1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --         38.0   31.58
855-IN     1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --         27.0   26.31
862-IN     1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   20.96
871-IN     1979   India    NCDC                       --         30.0   20.79
1648-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0       --      50.00
874-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --        200.0  177.14
889-IN     1979   India    Punjab Irrigation          --        129.0  115.98
899-IN     1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --         48.0   47.59
911-IN     1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --        175.0  172.86
925-IN     1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --         23.0   21.39



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN      1979   India      ARDC III                  --     250.0      161.06
1743-IN*    1979   India       Thal Fertilizer        250.0       -        250.00
963-IN     1979   India       Inland Fisheries                  20.0       20.00
954-IN     1979   India       Maharashtra
Irrigation II                  210.0      198.69
961-IN     1979   India       Gujarat Community
Forestry                        37.0       34.93
981-IN     1980   India       Population II                     46.0       46.00
1003-IN     1980   India       Tamil Nadu Nutrition              32.0       32.00
1004-IN     1980   India       U.P. Tubewells                    18.0       17.82
1011-IN     1980   India       Gujarat Irrigation II            175.0      175.00
1027-IN      1980   India      Singrauli Thermal II             300.0      300.00
1012-IN     1980   India       Cashewnut                         22.0       22.00
1028-IN      1980   India      Kerala Agricultural
Extension                       10.0       10.00
1033-IN*    1980   India       Calcutta Urban
Transport                       56.0       56.00
1034-IN*    1980   India       Karnataka Sericulture             54.0       54.00
1046-IN     1980   India       Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewer                       80.0       80.00
1843-IN     1980   ICICI       Industry DFC XIII      100.0                100.00
1887-IN*    1980   India       Farakka Thermal
Power                 25.0                 25.00
1053-IN*    1980   India       Farakka Thermal
Power                          225.0      225.00
Total                                  2,653.8  8,511.6
of which has been repaid             1,027.5      64.4
Total now outstanding                  1,626.3  8,447.2
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid   120.3        13.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/    1,612.8  8,447.2
Total undisbursed (excluding*)           576.3  3,348.9
Not yet effective
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                        Loan      Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5       -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                 0.9        -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4       -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                          0.2        -          0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.6        0.4        1.0
1964        Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.               0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.             11.8        1.3       13.1
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                 1.0        0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                    1.1        0.1        1.2
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                 15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                            6.6         -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                               4.0        1.2        5.2
1980        Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.           7.5        1.1        8.6
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS             61.1       11.5       72.6
Less:  Sold                                  5.9        1.7       7.6
Repaid                              19.1         -        19.1
Cancelled                            6.2        1.3        7.5
Now Held                            29.9        8.5       38.4
Undisbursed                         10.5        1.1       11.6



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding reason-
ably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$729 million in FY80, compared to US$538 million
in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal year through
August 31, 1980 totalled US$131 million, representing an increase of about
51X over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,925
million as of August 31, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Tnvestment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843   Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511  IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBT in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 31, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a
change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in completion of
engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project
preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the
sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-proiects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped.  Because of the above, che
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been
made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Cr. No. 1046    Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Implementation of this project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Detailed construction programs have been prepared for rural schemes, and pre-
paration of tender documents for urban schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date:  December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
m.illion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954    Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit
of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011   Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date:  September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date:  May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028   Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit
of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
These eight credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where regu-
lar extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the system
itself. In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project, important early administrative and financial
steps have been taken to pave the way for effective operation of the reor-
ganized extension system. In Kerala, project implementation has just begun.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961    Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects were designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages,
and supply raw materials to cottage industries. The projects provide for
large-scale tree plantations on public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033   Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: January 31, 1981 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Project implementation under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 963    Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya
Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries, improve-
ments to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the establish-
ment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980, and the
initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of State
Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project monitoring
units, are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.         US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874         May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1027   Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1981
Ln. No. 1887   Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and         US$225 million credit of June 26, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053   December 10, 1980 (expected); Closing Date:  March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construction of
the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such station, at Korba,
together with related facilities and associated transmission. Loan 1648/
Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and Loan 1887/Credit
1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been
carrying out construction and operation of these power stations. Loan 1549
is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension of the Tata Electric
Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet the forecast load growth
in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power projects are pro-
gressing satisfactorily. Although the transmission project financed by Credit
604 suffered delays in preparation of technical specifications and evaluation
of bids for higher sophisticated equipment, the project is now progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
financed by the Rural Electrification Corporation. There are now thirteen
State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared with six at
the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due principally
to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to interna-
tional competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 provides continued support to
the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program, and is helping to
finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs, including
the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an early stage
of implementation, and procurement is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.
Cr. No. 981    Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of mothers
and children and the lowering of fertility. Early implementation works have
started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Cr. No. 1012   Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10,
1980; Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh
and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003   Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date:  August 5, 1980; Closing Date:  March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding
according to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004   Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation is underway on this project.
Cr. No. 1034   Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: January 31, 1981 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is proceeding well with encouraging progress
in all components.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project.
18 months.
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project.
The Madras Metropolitan Development Authority (MMDA),
assisted by the implementing agencies.
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA and date of the
first mission to consider the project.
July 1978; October 1978.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission.
October 8, 1979.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations.
November 17, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness.
April 1981
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions.
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)  Madras Municipal Corporation to carry out remedial mea-
sures for improving maintenance of municipal infrastruc-
ture only after agreement on an action program between
GTN, MMC, and IDA (para 39).
(b)  Settler selection criteria, plot sales, and improvement
loans under the sites and services component to be on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 44).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) Revenues under sites and services and slum improve-
ment programs to be deposited in revolving funds
(paras 44 and 46).
(d) TNHB to limit its annual investment in housing other
than for economically weaker sections to a maximum
of 55% of its total investment program in the MMA
(para 45).
(e) Terms and conditions of charges to beneficiaries
of slum improvement program to be satisfactory to
IDA and to provide for recovery of land and improve-
ment costs via lease-cum-sale agreements which provide
tenure to slum residents on full payment (para 46).
(f) TNSCB to continue to limit its annual slum clearance/
tenement construction program to Rs 37.5 million
(para 48).
(g) PTC to operate within agreed financial guidelines
(para 49).
(h) Madras Municipal Corporation to take measures, to
increase its revenues by at least 8% per year and to
limit debt servicing to 20% of self-generated revenues
(para 50).






I N D I A 
SECOND MADRAS URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                            /
SLUM IMPROVEMENTS AND SITES AND SERVICES
Pr.aoore]Sh rlrprooereee            h S -;rroherucrAroor                                                                              .                                   '     :       |l/I  
Program  i__ro_______'__               rotcI
j   Le.e I aer,l,r 5                     Uder har-ro-t.  rar   .P ' p                                                                                                       r5.1NA:   1                       l      t
.  Lrev  I  erJle                 Propore-   Whoosc 0    arer k rt a N- P,ce.-
5  ;,    ere m 5ev-o,c          -.-:.:  E  a-g>l ldrjrrrr  Amreu                               r                                                                                               r   /;         J  /
_ (IUDrIe         Iertlr                       R oad R-/
h, S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~       ~ ~                
Tone ents ConNuto -ce                   Prooasea->ropecr!:.                                                                                         ,_Z  /                                                  I        I
* :  IrroaroaAroa          -           l,dertCrrsr,r  ProarNr-Pre                        a                                         *o                                               ///   //               ,!
PteSm ldrCor<fton Dr.noooPrhoa         r O                                                                                                         /            /if/ Xt .ai-
_ ,Pro oar Seooqo Ma n                  PooO;                                                                                                         r                           3                     0 i t.-S1r >  
~oerr c Sewage Oor  iag    =---  rroeOt A  .a Cr; or                      n                 I /o.. ,I./| -iTItIf
*    stot on               =o P rr Rood   lop-one  a ..d
Eert hg or-g -em-aera                  i heA tFcc ds                                j                           __ R-__d
Oth, .oR- d\  /  10_>,I, 
NV-p. rs                                     (thozsp"ad      e        gnr Por - / <a. ur^1 ,                                                    /
p~~~~-- c *    78/\A                                                                                 rr                J 
On     ~RIhD rrar                                                        .A.r --o  .aa  PP a                      r.-= ho a jar                                        1
OecaO?                               Th~~~~~j/J* ~~ Al   IVKAr
<   . 1 1X . 
/                  _ - 
30G~ ~~~~~~a f                                                                                                                                                                                             SPosI\__    h7>ewtr'ae/ret
N        b1                  tl J  h 2/                          'Ir -                                                                                                  t              rre a s,rrro r eoram O O r at ea arO
0grPho      \                                                                                                                                                                                     aaa,ocrrrf'e rao  /  n orI
+ r   02iSE   :   :   1l                                       /                                         /         \                !                                                    m  w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r4,a'-ar~O  troo
-.   dt.w l I     S  .wA        .3                                                                                                                                                                                              . 
_  Sawo                                                                                                        :: te*  /                                                                               reaeeaOoaaC



