OFVIC IA     CREDIT NUMBER 1082-IN
DOCUMIENTS
Project Agreement
(Second Madras Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF TAMIL NADU
Dated                            I   198l


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1082-IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     *                 )     , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the STATE OF TAMIL NADU, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called Tamil Nadu).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-two million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 32,600,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that Tamil Nadu agrees to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Tamil Nadu, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "TNHB" means the Tamil Nadu Housing Board;
(b) "TNSCB" means the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board;
(c) "MMA" means the Madras Metropolitan Area as notified
under the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1971;
(d) "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower;
(e) "Executing Agencies" means PTC, the Corporation, TNHB,
TNSCB, SIDCO, MMDA and the Departments of Public Works, Health,
Education, Social Welfare, and Highways and Rural Works of Tamil


﻿-2-
Nadu and shall include such other Agencies and Departments of
Tamil Nadu as may be agreed upon between the Association and Tamil
Nadu;
(f) "Sites and Services Revolving Fund" means the Fund
established pursuant to Section 2.07 (iii) of the First Project
Agreement and to be maintained for the purposes of this Agreement;
and
(g) "Slum Improvement Revolving Fund" means the Fund
established pursuant to Section 2.08 (iii) of the First Project
Agreement and to be maintained for the purposes of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Tamil Nadu shall carry out, or cause to
be carried out, the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Tamil Nadu shall make available to the Executing
Agencies funds equivalent to the proceeds of the Credit made
available by the Borrower to Tamil Nadu on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.02. In order to assist Tamil Nadu in carrying
out Part E of the Project, Tamil Nadu shall employ, or cause to
be employed, consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Tamil Nadu shall cause the Executing
Agencies to insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance
of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to them by Tamil Nadu against hazards


﻿incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Tamil
Nadu shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to
be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Tamil Nadu shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and con-
struction   and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Tamil Nadu: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Tamil Nadu
and the Association, Tamil Nadu shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by Tamil Nadu
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
(d) Tamil    Nadu   shall   enable    the   Association's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,


﻿-4-
works, buildings, property and equipment related to the Project
and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. (a) Tamil Nadu shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) Tamil Nadu shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Tamil Nadu of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. Tamil Nadu undertakes that the investments
under Part D (ii) of the Project shall be undertaken only after
the Association and Tamil Nadu have agreed on the actions to be
taken and equipment to be procured.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Tamil Nadu shall cause TNHB, TNSCB, PTC, SIDCO
and the Corporation to take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. Tamil Nadu shall, commencing April 1, 1982,
cause TNHB to: (i) limit its annual investment in housing other
than for the economically weaker sections, to not more than 55% of
its total investment in housing and plot development in MMA; and
(ii) construct housing for the economically weaker sections under
its MMA program in accordance with physical standards mutually
acceptable to the Association and Tamil Nadu.
Section 3.03. Tamil Nadu shall cause TNSCB to limit its
annual expenditure on its slum clearance-cum-tenement program
during the period April 1, 1981 to March 31, 1986 to not more than
Rs 37,500,000. Such expenditure shall be limited to units required
for households in areas which cannot be improved in situ, such
as the right-of-way of the essential transport cor,idors, along
the water courses regularly subjected to flooding, and in other
areas mutually agreed between the Association and Tamil Nadu.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. Tamil Nadu shall ensure that in respect of the
sites and services to be developed under Part A of the Project,
(i) the settler selection criteria, including income levels,
(ii) the terms and conditions of sale for plots and housing sites,
(iii) the terms and conditions of sale for small industry sites
and sheds, and (iv) the terms and conditions of loans extended by
SIDCO for small industry sites, sheds and machinery, shall all
be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. Tamil Nadu undertakes, in respect of Part B of
the Project, (i) to recover the costs of land, infrastructure, and
services in improved slums under lease-cum-sale agreements which
allow for the passage of freehold title to residents promptly
after the payment by such residents of the full amount due for
the plots purchased by them, and (ii) that the charges to slum
households for land and improvement and the terms and conditions
of lease-cum-sale agreements with households in slums improved
under the Project shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. Tamil Nadu undertakes (i) to cause the revenues
received from beneficiaries under lease-cum-sale agreements
entered into pursuant to Part A of the Project to be deposited
in the Sites and Services Revolving Fund, and (ii) to cause
the revenues received from beneficiaries under lease-cum-sale
agreements entered into pursuant to Part B of the Project to be
deposited in the Slum Improvement Revolving Fund.
Section 3.07. Tamil Nadu shall cause: (i) PTC and the
Corporation to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
their operations and financial condition; (ii) the other Executing
Agencies to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
their operations and financial condition related to the Project
or any part thereof; and (iii) MMDA to maintain an overall Project
account adequate to reflect the operations of all Executing
Agencies in respect of the Project.
Section 3.08. Tamil Nadu shall cause: (i) PTC and the
Corporation to have their accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles      consistently   applied, by
independent auditors icceptable to the Association; (ii) TNHB,
TNSCB and SIDCO to have their accounts and financial statements


﻿-6-
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) in respect of the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors, acceptable to the
Association; (iii) to be furnished to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than ten months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) to be
furnished to the Association such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.09. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, Tamil Nadu shall cause PTC to take all such action as is
necessary to: (i) maintain a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities (hereinafter referred to as the current ratio) of at
least 1.5:1; (ii) ensure that PTC's operating costs (which shall
include depreciation but exclude interest and other charges on
debt, corporate taxes and subvention) do not exceed 95% of its
operating revenues; and (iii) ensure that PTC does not incur any
long-term debt unless the net revenue of PTC for the fiscal year
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month
period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever net
revenue is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the
maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year
on all long-term debt of PTC including the proposed long-term
debt.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "long term debt" means all debt incurred,
including debt assumed or guaranteed by PTC, except
debt incurred in the ordinary course of business
and maturing by its terms on demand or less than
one year after its incurrence;
(ii) the term "incur" with reference to any debt
includes any modification of the terms of payment
of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred
(a) under a contract or loan agreement, on the
date the contract or loan agreement providing for
such debt is entered and (b) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee shall have been entered into;


﻿-7-
(iii) the term "net revenue" means gross revenue from
transport operations, less all operating expenses,
including adequate maintenance, taxes other than
corporate taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, if
any, and administrative expenses, but before
provision for depreciation and interest and other
charges on debt; and
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of principal repayments (including
sinking funds payments, if any), interest and other
ciflarges on long-term debt.
Section 3.10. Tamil Nadu shall cause the Corporation to:
(1) increase its revenues (excluding revenues from
surcharge on sales tax and grants from the Borrower
and Tamil Nadu) by at least 8% annually;
(ii) ensure that, until March 31, 1986, its debt
service payments in any fiscal year shall not
exceed 20% of its revenues; and
(iii) furnish, by December 31, 1981, for review by the
Association, the Corporation's proposals for
achieving improvements in the collection of
property taxes within its jurisdiction.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Tamil Nadu thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿-8-
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Tamil Nadu of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Tamil Nadu:
Chief Secretary to the Government
of Tamil Nadu
Fort St. George
Madras 600009
India
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Fort St. George
Madras


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Tamil Nadu may be taken or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of Tamil Nadu or such other person or
persons as Tamil Nadu shall designate in writing, and Tamil Nadu
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representat!'ves thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF TAMIL NADU
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Tamil Nadu shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
and works in question. Tamil Nadu shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in India


﻿- 11 -
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of India and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 12 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for small items estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or less may be awarded after obtaining price quotations
from at least three suppliers.
2.   Contracts for civil works, materials for bus bodies,
maintenance equipment procured under Part D (ii) of the Project,
and hand carts and refuse bins for solid waste may be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for (i) civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; and (ii) equipment and
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Tamil Nadu shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Tamil
Nadu shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform Tamil Nadu and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 13 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Tamil Nadu shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Tamil Nadu
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 15% of the original price, Tamil Nadu shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform Tamil Nadu
and state the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Bus bodies may be built by PTC in its own workshops through
force account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of         * ,
1981.
FOR SECRETARY


